____________________________________________________________

Cleaning to Soothe the Traumatized: [Op-Ed]

Author: Tsabari, Ayelet

Publication info: Tsabari, Ayelet. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cleaning-soothe-traumatized/docview/3149989350/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the wake of Oct. 7, 2023,, many Israelis felt abandoned by their government. Facing an absence of leadership, volunteer operations popped up to help victims recover. People from around the country stepped in to help with agricultural work and gathered donations for 130,000 internally displaced people.
At first, I felt immobilized by the stress and agony of the unfolding war.
Then I saw a Facebook post calling for volunteers to clean people's homes in the kibbutzim that had been invaded by Hamas on Oct. 7. I signed up immediately. This, I thought, was something I could do. Something concrete, useful.
Somehow, in a world that made increasingly less sense, the straightforwardness of cleaning felt like a balm. The basic fact of it -- you clean and it's changed, you clean and it's restored -- felt like a miracle.
All through my childhood, my mother cleaned. Early morning, I'd wake up to the sounds of her moving furniture, wheeling appliances, hoisting up chairs, the scent of bleach stinging my nostrils. Our house in a small suburb east of Tel Aviv was pristine. Laundry was folded promptly. Shelves and surfaces were free of dust, the sink clear of dishes.
As a teen, I didn't understand my mother's need to clean or why she took such pride in it. I thought of myself as sophisticated for not caring about something so mundane.
When I mentioned my mother's penchant for cleaning to new friends, they nodded. Everyone in Israel knew Yemeni women cleaned. It was one of the less offensive stereotypes about us. But also, it was grounded in fact: As early as the late 19th century, when the first wave of Yemeni migrants arrived in Palestine, women were encouraged to fill the role of cleaners by the European-led Zionist movement. The Yemenite Jews were "born laborers," David Ben-Gurion, Israel's first prime minister, once said.
I was determined to brush this inheritance off me like dust. Knowing that Yemeni immigrants had been seen as unhygienic, smelly -- fenugreek, an essential herb in Yemeni cuisine, releases a strong odor in one's sweat -- I wondered: Was their insistence on cleanliness a way to prove their humanity?
Despite my firm resistance, at 25 I became the fourth-generation woman in my family to work as a housecleaner.
Cleaning filled a financial need at a time when I had no options. Then I found myself enjoying it. It gave me a sense of accomplishment when I lacked direction. It linked me to my mother and my community.
Many years later, cleaning the homes in the plundered kibbutzim brought me solace and a sense of agency. It was as if, by cleaning, I could expunge some of the horrors that had occurred there -- bleach as a way to eradicate bad memories, wipe things clean, start fresh.
My great-grandmother arrived in Ottoman Palestine with one child and her third husband at the turn of the 20th century, leaving my grandmother, a toddler, and her twin sister behind in Yemen. There she began working as a maid for a wealthy family. Later, when she died in childbirth, her adolescent daughter replaced her.
Nearly 20 years later, in 1934, my grandparents left Yemen for Palestine, where my grandmother began cleaning. When she was pregnant with her third child, my eldest aunt, Rivka -- only 7 years old at the time -- stepped in.
By the 1950s one could hire a cleaner, most of them Yemeni, by driving through an illegal housemaids' fair in Tel Aviv. At the time, the word "Yemeni" in its Hebrew female form was synonymous with maid.
Much later, my mother briefly worked as a cleaner, including at the home of one of my friends' grandparents, a fact that once mortified me. By the time I came along, my father, raised in poverty, had built his own successful law practice. My mother no longer needed to work outside the house.
She returned to cleaning at home, grief-stricken and despondent, after my father, the love of her life, died at 44, leaving her with six children between the ages of 2 and 21. I wonder if cleaning saved her. Perhaps her fixation on it was a reaction to trauma. My mother's entire world collapsed, but cleaning was something she could control, something she could accomplish and maintain.
When I immigrated to Canada at 25, cleaning was the only job I was able to find. I had moved to Vancouver to follow a man, and for the first year I was lonely, depressed and unemployed. Spending long days on my own as my boyfriend worked, I began meticulously cleaning our one-bedroom apartment. There was something calming and surprisingly meditative about the act. I was good at it. When my friends complimented me on the state of our home, I felt oddly proud. I got a job working for a cleaning company, scouring lobbies and stairways in large apartment buildings in Vancouver's West End. Then I found regular clients, mostly bachelors and seniors.
It was around that time that I realized cleaning had the power to do more than dust and mop and shine. It could address trauma. Once a close friend in Vancouver had her drink spiked at a local bar and called me, crying. Later, I came over and cleaned what she could not touch. I washed and changed the sheets, discarded a condom wrapper by the bed. I bleached everything the perpetrator may have touched.
When I clean the houses at the edge of Israel's border with Gaza, houses that have been looted, children's rooms with bullet holes and shattered glass, Lego structures toppled over, safe rooms with "Peace Now" stickers on their doors, I do my very best. I summon the cleaner in me, and I perform deep work: I clean with intention, with something akin to religious devotion. I scour nooks and crannies, scrub floors, polish windows, pick up cigarette butts left by the Hamas terrorists. I bleach kitchens and bathrooms: Here, again, bleach is a magic eraser of trauma, a renewer of things.
The residents of these homes say that the work we've done in a few hours is equivalent to months of therapy. That before we cleaned, they could barely touch a glass, because everything felt violated, tainted.
By the time we leave the kibbutzim, those homes that had been frozen by trauma are transformed; the air has shifted, eased. We clean, and it allows for new stories to take root.
Ayelet Tsabari is the author of the memoir "The Art of Leaving," the short story collection "The Best Place on Earth" and, most recently, the novel "Songs for the Brokenhearted."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Kibbutz; Short stories; Displaced persons

Location: Yemen; Israel; Tel Aviv Israel

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/24/opinion/cleaning-to-soothe-the-worried.html

Title: Cleaning to Soothe the Traumatized:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 30, 2024

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3149989350

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cleaning-soothe-traumatized/docview/3149989350/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 30, 2024

Last updated: 2025-01-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Word of Mouth That Let Loose Drone Frenzy: [National Desk]

Author: Wilson, Michael; Mcfadden, Alyce; Tully, Tracey

Publication info: Wilson, Michael; Mcfadden, Alyce; Tully, Tracey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/word-mouth-that-let-loose-drone-frenzy/docview/3148994943/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It was a dry and cool Wednesday evening outside the Army's Picatinny Arsenal in New Jersey, a longtime military installation that once made the bombs and shells that led to victory in World War II. A contractor there knocked off work and decided to wait out rush hour traffic. He picked up some takeout from Wawa, parked outside a nearby wildlife preserve and settled in to watch an episode of Joe Rogan's podcast on his phone. Then he saw a flash in the side mirror.
A light rising straight up from the tree line and toward the arsenal. He started recording. Could it have been a plane?
Or was it a drone?
And so began what seems to be the origin story of the ongoing drone saga. The contractor called in his sighting to his superiors on Nov. 13, and others followed quickly, first throughout the county, then the rest of New Jersey, then into neighboring states.
Countless people have reported mysterious hovering objects dotting the night skies and posted blurred images -- a white light, a black background -- on social media. Every day, for weeks. Drones. Drones?
Small drones. Drones big as vans. Blinking, stationary, speeding and zipping and buzzing.
Jeffrey Parker first saw them outside his Vineland, N.J., apartment building. He was barefoot, checking the mail, and there they were: three lights flying low and slow.
"I was like damn, that's not airplanes," Mr. Parker, 65, said.
Was it a foreign government? Our own government? Kids? Visitors from space?
The story grew to consume police departments, sheriffs, the F.B.I. and Department of Homeland Security, a former reality TV star with a supposed inside line to NASA, mayors, governors, the White House and the president-elect.
But now it appears increasingly likely that if there were any drones at all, it was very few, and that most of the drones people did see -- stay with this -- were up there looking for the drones people thought they were seeing.
Mounting evidence, and lack thereof, suggests that perhaps the whole craze has been a sort of communal fever dream fueled by crowd mentality, confirmation bias and a general distrust in all things official.
This explanation has been widely rejected by those sharing their personal drone experiences, leaving them feeling belittled and gaslit and creating the kind of hothouse where conspiracy theories take root, grow and thrive.
'Out in the ocean'
Five days after the arsenal sighting, on Nov. 18, multiple drones were reported, there and elsewhere in surrounding Morris County. A Facebook page called Live Storm Chasers with 1.3 million followers posted a five-drone sighting.
The Morris County Prosecutors Office issued a statement from sheriffs, police chiefs and emergency officials that simultaneously acknowledged and downplayed the sightings and urged people to "be mindful that what they read online may not be accurate."
Still, a day later, the F.B.I. quietly opened its own investigation into the drones. The agency would later announce a drone hotline and receive some 5,000 tips.
And the Federal Aviation Administration posted temporary flight restrictions prohibiting drone flights over the arsenal and, shortly after, the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster.
The owner of that club would weigh in soon enough.
November turned to December, and without any new, proven evidence or data to frame what was happening, the story exploded. A lack of facts became pure oxygen on social media and, on its heels, mainstream media. Even people's Ring doorbells, equipped to alert users with messages from other Ring users, began to ping out drone sightings.
Jessica Fiorentino, 33, a mother of two young children in Toms River, had heard about drones, but when she went to the beach one night she couldn't believe what she saw.
"All the way out in the ocean, drones," she said on Friday in an interview. "Some would stay above the ocean, and some would come onto the land." She alerted her followers on TikTok, normally filled with mom posts, and kept going out, every night, sometimes to other beaches, always posting videos.
"They are very low in Seaside Heights right now," she said in a video on a recent December night, pointing out two lights.
"Part of me is starting to maybe think that red drone is someone's drone, like someone here, putting it up, like police," she reported. "And the one above it is the unidentified drone." The video was viewed more than 393,000 times.
The federal government was widely seen as being slow to react and confusing in its messaging, which was essentially, "Don't panic, but be vigilant."
Then came Sunday, Dec. 8, at Island Beach State Park, a narrow stripe of coastline in southern New Jersey. A State Park Police officer contacted the local Ocean County Sheriff's office with a frightening report right out of a summer blockbuster.
"Fifty drones were coming from the ocean toward the mainland," the sheriff, Michael Mastronardy, told Fox News. He rushed to the beach and met the officer. "She had legitimate information she provided," the sheriff said in a recent interview.
The following night, the sheriff was joined by a Republican congressman, Representative Chris Smith, who wanted a firsthand look.
He said the drones "have so far evaded identification, origin, mission or potential threat to Americans" and criticized the Biden administration for not taking it seriously.
Senator Andy Kim, Democrat of New Jersey, was frustrated by a lack of information, so he accompanied police officers on Dec. 12 to three sites that had been flooded with drone calls.
"They were kind of pointing out things that were flying," he said. "Some, they were like, 'That's a drone.' These are police officers. They've been out there for weeks now."
He took videos and showed them to aviation experts, who convinced him that the objects were actually manned aircraft.
"It kind of highlighted to me: This is the information that people need," he said.
Other lawmakers have suggested that the drones should be shot out of the sky. Some people may have tried to heed that call, in a way. Plane and helicopter pilots reported dozens of incidents of lasers being pointed at them over New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania in early December. Shining a laser at an aircraft can injure or blind the pilot, and is a federal crime. The F.B.I. responded and urged people to stop.
Ms. Fiorentino, her once-MomTok now a full-time DroneTok, was still recording every night, and growing more alarmed at what she was seeing.
"There's stuff spraying out of them -- this is new to me," she said in a video on Dec. 15. That video was viewed 485,000 times, and another she posted about spraying got 2.8 million views.
Jennifer McDonald, 48, taking her 15-minute break outside a Walmart in Pennsville, still hadn't seen a drone well into December. Her husband kept asking her. Then she went outside and looked up.
"Hot damn," she said. She called her husband on FaceTime and they spent her whole break watching the little lights in the sky together.
Airplanes and stars
By mid-December, after weeks of shrugs, the federal government stepped up its attempt to explain what was going on. In short, officials said: They're not drones.
An F.B.I. representative told reporters that of the 5,000 hotline tips it received, fewer than 100 leads had been generated and deemed worthy of further investigation.
Four federal agencies quickly echoed that analysis, saying the bright lights floating or flying in the night sky above New Jersey were airplanes, helicopters, stars or drones that were not suspicious.
The messaging did not appear to resonate among the people looking up. Senator Kim, shopping with his two sons at a Lego Store in the Cherry Hill Mall recently, was approached with one question.
"What is happening with the drones?"
Bethenny Frankel, formerly of "The Real Housewives of New York City," became another regular drone reporter on TikTok.
"I know this guy whose father worked with the Pentagon and NASA and secret projects, and he has been messaging me that he will never forgive himself if he doesn't tell the people he knows," she began in a post last week. "These drones are ours and quite possibly could be sniffing out something dangerous."
The following morning, the "Good Day New York" program on Fox reported her claim, "and that it has something to do with radioactive material in New Jersey," Rosanna Scotto, the host, said on air.
At a news conference on Dec. 16, the same day the federal agencies said most reported drone sightings were not drones, President-elect Donald J. Trump was asked about the situation, and he chuckled.
"The government knows what is happening," he said. "For some reason, they don't want to comment." He seemed to allude to the airspace restrictions over his club in Bedminster, where he said he'd planned to go the following weekend.
"I think maybe I won't spend the weekend in Bedminster," he said. "I decided to cancel my trip."
By the end of the week, looking to literally clear the air, the F.A.A. announced a ban on drone use in airspace above critical infrastructure in more than 90 communities in New Jersey and New York.
And Senator Kim said on Friday that federal drone detecting devices that had been put in place in hot spots in recent weeks had not detected any drones.
This will likely do little to calm a jittery public.
In Toms River, Ms. Fiorentino said she'll keep posting TikTok videos. "We have no answers," she said. "They're still here. I hear more counties are getting them. More states are getting them."
And, if she's being honest, it's a nice diversion after a long day of work and kids. "People are relying on me to go out there," she said. "For me it was like, OK, I can take a break from the chaos inside."
At Picatinny Arsenal, where it all began weeks ago, the contractor who reported what he saw in his car's mirror has otherwise stayed quiet about the incident, telling just a few colleagues and an old college classmate. He is speaking out now on the condition that his name be withheld because he is not authorized to address the matter. As he's watched the drone frenzy spread across the country, he said he can't help but worry he's to blame.
"I feel," he said, "like I've caused mass hysteria."
Dodai Stewart and Nate Schweber contributed reporting.
Dodai Stewart and Nate Schweber contributed reporting.
Photograph Scanning the sky for drones at Island Beach Sate Park in New Jersey. Right, lights over Bernardsville this month. Federal officials have explained such lights as airplanes, helicopters or stars. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BRIAN GLENN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A20) This article appeared in print on page A1, A20.

Subject: Aircraft; Aviation; Drones; Parks & recreation areas; Sheriffs; Criminal investigations; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; New Jersey

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA; NAICS: 927110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/24/nyregion/new-jersey-new-york-drones.html

Title: Word of Mouth That Let Loose Drone Frenzy:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 25, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New Y ork Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148994943

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/word-mouth-that-let-loose-drone-frenzy/docview/3148994943/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How So Many People Became Obsessed With Looking for Drones in the Sky

Author: Wilson, Michael; McFadden, Alyce; Tully, Tracey

Publication info: Wilson, Michael; McFadden, Alyce; Tully, Tracey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-so-many-people-became-obsessed-with-looking/docview/3148892303/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

It was a dry and cool Wednesday evening outside the Army’s Picatinny Arsenal in New Jersey, a longtime military installation that once made the bombs and shells that led to victory in World War II. A contractor there knocked off work and decided to wait out rush-hour traffic. He picked up some takeout from Wawa, parked outside a nearby wildlife preserve and settled in to watch an episode of Joe Rogan’s podcast on his phone. Then he saw a flash in the side mirror.
A light rising straight up from the tree line and toward the arsenal. He started recording. Could it have been a plane?
Or was it a drone?
And so began what seems to be the origin story of the ongoing drone saga. The contractor called in his sighting to his superiors Nov. 13, and others followed quickly, first throughout the county, then the rest of New Jersey, then into neighboring states.
Countless people have reported mysterious hovering objects dotting the night skies and posted blurred images — a white light, a black background — on social media. Every day, for weeks. Drones. Drones?
Small drones. Drones big as vans. Blinking, stationary, speeding and zipping and buzzing.
Jeffrey Parker first saw them outside his Vineland, New Jersey, apartment building. He was barefoot, checking the mail, and there they were: three lights flying low and slow.
“I was like damn, that’s not airplanes,” said Parker, 65.
Was it a foreign government? Our own government? Kids? Visitors from space?
The story grew to consume police departments, sheriffs, the FBI and Department of Homeland Security, a former reality TV star with a supposed inside line to NASA, mayors, governors, the White House and the president-elect.
But now it appears increasingly likely that if there were any drones at all, it was very few, and that most of the drones people did see — stay with this — were up there looking for the drones people thought they were seeing.
Mounting evidence, and lack thereof, suggests that perhaps the whole craze has been a sort of communal fever dream fueled by crowd mentality, confirmation bias and a general distrust in all things official.
This explanation has been widely rejected by those sharing their personal drone experiences, leaving them feeling belittled and gaslit and creating the kind of hothouse where conspiracy theories take root, grow and thrive.
‘Out in the Ocean’
Five days after the arsenal sighting, on Nov. 18, multiple drones were reported, there and elsewhere in surrounding Morris County. A Facebook page called Live Storm Chasers with 1.3 million followers posted a five-drone sighting.
The Morris County Prosecutors Office issued a statement from sheriffs, police chiefs and emergency officials that simultaneously acknowledged and downplayed the sightings and urged people to “be mindful that what they read online may not be accurate.”
Still, a day later, the FBI quietly opened its own investigation into the drones. The agency would later announce a drone hotline and receive about 5,000 tips.
And the Federal Aviation Administration posted temporary flight restrictions prohibiting drone flights over the arsenal and, shortly after, the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster.
The owner of that club would weigh in soon enough.
November turned to December, and without any new, proved evidence or data to frame what was happening, the story exploded. A lack of facts became pure oxygen on social media and, on its heels, mainstream media. Even people’s Ring doorbells, equipped to alert users with messages from other Ring users, began to ping out drone sightings.
Jessica Fiorentino, 33, a mother of two young children in Toms River, had heard about drones, but when she went to the beach one night, she couldn’t believe what she saw.
“All the way out in the ocean, drones,” she said Friday in an interview. “Some would stay above the ocean, and some would come onto the land.” She alerted her followers on TikTok, normally filled with mom posts, and kept going out, every night, sometimes to other beaches, always posting videos.
“They are very low in Seaside Heights right now,” she said in a video on a recent December night, pointing out two lights.
“Part of me is starting to maybe think that red drone is someone’s drone, like someone here, putting it up, like police,” she reported. “And the one above it is the unidentified drone.” The video was viewed more than 393,000 times.
The federal government was widely seen as being slow to react and confusing in its messaging, which was essentially “Don’t panic, but be vigilant.”
Then came Dec. 8 at Island Beach State Park, a narrow stripe of coastline in southern New Jersey. A State Park Police officer contacted the local Ocean County Sheriff’s office with a frightening report right out of a summer blockbuster.
“Fifty drones were coming from the ocean toward the mainland,” Sheriff Michael Mastronardy told Fox News. He rushed to the beach and met the officer. “She had legitimate information she provided,” Mastronardy said in a recent interview.
The next night, Mastronardy was joined by a Republican member of Congress, Rep. Chris Smith, who wanted a firsthand look.
He said the drones “have so far evaded identification, origin, mission or potential threat to Americans” and criticized the Biden administration for not taking it seriously.
Sen. Andy Kim, D-N.J., was frustrated by a lack of information, so he accompanied police officers Dec. 12 to three sites that had been flooded with drone calls.
“They were kind of pointing out things that were flying,” he said. “Some, they were like, ‘That’s a drone.’ These are police officers. They’ve been out there for weeks now.”
He took videos and showed them to aviation experts, who convinced him that the objects were actually manned aircraft.
“It kind of highlighted to me: This is the information that people need,” he said.
Other lawmakers have suggested that the drones should be shot out of the sky. Some people may have tried to heed that call, in a way. Plane and helicopter pilots reported dozens of incidents of lasers being pointed at them over New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania in early December. Shining a laser at an aircraft can injure or blind the pilot, and is a federal crime. The FBI responded and urged people to stop.
Fiorentino, her once-MomTok now a full-time DroneTok, was still recording every night, and growing more alarmed at what she was seeing.
“There’s stuff spraying out of them — this is new to me,” she said in a video Dec. 15. That video was viewed 485,000 times, and another she posted about spraying got 2.8 million views.
Jennifer McDonald, 48, taking her 15-minute break outside a Walmart in Pennsville, still hadn’t seen a drone well into December. Her husband kept asking her. Then she went outside and looked up.
“Hot damn,” she said. She called her husband on FaceTime and they spent her whole break watching the little lights in the sky together.
Airplanes and Stars
By mid-December, after weeks of shrugs, the federal government stepped up its attempt to explain what was going on. In short, officials said: They’re not drones.
An FBI representative told reporters that of the 5,000 hotline tips it received, fewer than 100 leads had been generated and deemed worthy of further investigation.
Four federal agencies quickly echoed that analysis, saying the bright lights floating or flying in the night sky above New Jersey were airplanes, helicopters, stars or drones that were not suspicious.
The messaging did not appear to resonate among the people looking up. Kim, shopping with his two sons at a Lego Store in the Cherry Hill Mall recently, was approached with one question.
“What is happening with the drones?”
Bethenny Frankel, formerly of “The Real Housewives of New York City,” became another regular drone reporter on TikTok.
“I know this guy whose father worked with the Pentagon and NASA and secret projects, and he has been messaging me that he will never forgive himself if he doesn’t tell the people he knows,” she began in a post last week. “These drones are ours and quite possibly could be sniffing out something dangerous.”
The next morning, the “Good Day New York” program on Fox reported her claim, “and that it has something to do with radioactive material in New Jersey,” Rosanna Scotto, the host, said on air.
At a news conference Dec. 16, the same day the federal agencies said most reported drone sightings were not drones, President-elect Donald Trump was asked about the situation, and he chuckled.
“The government knows what is happening,” he said. “For some reason, they don’t want to comment.” He seemed to allude to the airspace restrictions over his club in Bedminster, where he said he had planned to go the next weekend.
“I think maybe I won’t spend the weekend in Bedminster,” he said. “I decided to cancel my trip.”
By the end of the week, looking to literally clear the air, the FAA announced a ban on drone use in airspace above critical infrastructure in more than 90 communities in New Jersey and New York.
And Kim said Friday that federal drone detecting devices that had been put in place in hot spots in recent weeks had not detected any drones.
This will probably do little to calm a jittery public.
In Toms River, Fiorentino said she’ll keep posting TikTok videos. “We have no answers,” she said. “They’re still here. I hear more counties are getting them. More states are getting them.”
And, if she’s being honest, it’s a nice diversion after a long day of work and kids. “People are relying on me to go out there,” she said. “For me it was like, OK, I can take a break from the chaos inside.”
At Picatinny Arsenal, where it all began weeks ago, the contractor who reported what he saw in his car’s mirror has otherwise stayed quiet about the incident, telling just a few colleagues and an old college classmate. He is speaking out now on the condition that his name be withheld because he is not authorized to address the matter. As he has watched the drone frenzy spread across the country, he said he can’t help but worry he’s to blame.
“I feel,” he said, “like I’ve caused mass hysteria.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Aircraft; Aviation; Drones; Parks & recreation areas; Sheriffs; Criminal investigations; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; New Jersey

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA; NAICS: 927110; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; United States; Politics And Government; Kim, Andy (1982 ); Pilots; New York State; Aviation Accidents, Safety And Disasters; Trump National Golf Club (Bedminster, Nj); Toms River (Nj); Mayors; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Military Bases And Installations; Laser (Light Amplification By Stimulated Emission Of Radiation); Seaside Heights (Nj); New York City; Beaches; Bombs And Explosives; Reality Television; Federal Aviation Administration; Elections, Mayors; Defense Contracts; Scotto, Rosanna; Vineland (Nj); Police; Social Media; Presidential Election Of 2024; Defense Department; Ocean County (Nj); The Real Housewives Of New York (Tv Program); Mid Atlantic States (Us); United States Politics And Government; Pennsylvania; Conspiracy Theories; Wildlife Sanctuaries And Nature Reserves; Rogan, Joe; Cherry Hill Mall; Morris County (Nj); Law And Legislation; Ring Inc; New Jersey; Homeland Security Department; Facebook Inc; Sheriffs; Drones (Pilotless Planes); Tiktok (Bytedance); Polls And Public Opinion; Space And Astronomy; Republican Party; Podcasts; Walmart Stores Inc; Instant Messaging; Smith, Christopher H; Bedminster (Nj); Trump, Donald J; Security And Warning Systems; Conservation Of Resources; Government Contracts And Procurement; National Aeronautics And Space Administration; Airlines And Airplanes; Metro Ag; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Frankel, Bethenny

Title: How So Many People Became Obsessed With Looking for Drones in the Sky

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 24, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148892303

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-so-many-people-became-obsessed-with-looking/docview/3148892303/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Rare Move, Disney Plans To Make Film With 'Bluey': [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Barnes, Brooks

Publication info: Barnes, Brooks. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rare-move-disney-plans-make-film-with-bluey/docview/3146010845/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: BBC Studios and the Walt Disney Company will collaborate on a movie about the hit children's character.
Mickey Mouse and Bluey are expanding their business partnership.
BBC Studios and the Walt Disney Company said on Tuesday that they would collaborate on an animated movie starring Bluey, the Blue Heeler pup who has become a global sensation on children's television.
The film will be made by Ludo, the Australian studio that makes the "Bluey" television show, and financed by BBC Studios, which holds global distribution and merchandising rights to the character. Disney, which licenses the series for Disney+ and cable networks, will release the movie in theaters in 2027.
Joe Brumm, who created the character, will write and direct the film. "I want this to be an experiential event," he said in a statement. The voice actors from the series will reprise their roles. The film will be produced by Amber Naismith, whose credits include "The Lego Movie" and "Happy Feet."
In a separate social media post, Mr. Brumm added that he would "take a break" from the series, which is heading into its fourth season. "To walk away from it while it's at such a height will seem crazy to some," he said. "But for now, I am finding it difficult to reach back genuinely into that four- to six-year-old world and write authentically."
He added, "To be clear, this is not an announcement about the end of the show, but it is an acknowledgment that my focus will be on the film."
Disney rarely releases animated movies it does not own. The most recent example was "The Wind Rises," a 2013 art film by Studio Ghibli in Japan.
But Dana Walden and Alan Bergman, co-chairmen of Disney Entertainment, wanted to keep the character in the Disney fold. Bluey is a phenomenon, with more than 50 billion minutes streamed in the United States in 2024, enough to make it the No. 1 streaming show, according to Nielsen.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Childrens television; Animated films; Collaboration; Motion pictures

Company / organization: Name: BBC Studios; NAICS: 516120; Name: Walt Disney Co; NAICS: 512110, 516120, 711211, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/17/business/bluey-movie-disney-bbc.html

Title: In Rare Move, Disney Plans To Make Film With 'Bluey':   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 18, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3146010845

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rare-move-disney-plans-make-film-with-bluey/docview/3146010845/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Dismaying Prognosis, One 'Perfect Day' to Savor: [Society Desk]

Author: Sadiba Hasan

Publication info: Sadiba Hasan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-dismaying-prognosis-one-perfect-day-savor/docview/3141930575/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Moira Legault, who has brain cancer, was given about a year to live, she knew she wanted to spend the rest of her life with Tyler Ferron.
Moira Collette-Jean Legault had just awakened from a brain operation when she received some devastating news. She would most likely have about a year to live.
Tyler Scott Ferron, Ms. Legault's partner of five years, rushed into her room at Vanderbilt University Medical Center right as the surgeon was delivering the prognosis.
It was a weekday in early May, and Mr. Ferron had left his shift as a maintenance technician at Brookdale Senior Living, a nursing home in Brentwood, Tenn., early. It was then that he asked Ms. Legault what she wanted to do in her final year.
Ms. Legault, 27, has a type of brain cancer called astrocytoma and was having a shunt placed in her head during the operation. She said she wanted to travel -- that is, to go anywhere within driving distance since it wasn't recommended for her to fly on a plane. A few weeks later, she started a GoFundMe account to raise money to cross off bullet points on her bucket list.
Her No. 1 wish was to marry the love of her life. "I said, 'Let's do it,"' recalled Mr. Ferron, also 27.
"I'm just trying to spend as many days as I can with this man," Ms. Legault said.
Ms. Legault had known she wanted to spend her life with Mr. Ferron pretty much since they first met in February 2019 in Nashua, N.H.
"I don't necessarily know if I believe in an afterlife or not, but it's somewhat nice to know that if there is one, I'll be there waiting," Ms. Legault said.
They met while sifting through old vinyl records at Newbury Comics at Pheasant Lane Mall in Nashua.
Ms. Legault grew up in Littleton, Mass., and Mr. Ferron in Candia, N.H. The two towns are about an hour away from each other, and the mall is in between both towns. As teens, it was a meet-up spot, the one place, Ms. Legault said, where anything remotely interesting was happening.
Immediately, they bonded over their shared love of rock and jazz, as well as Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin -- "the oldies stuff," as Ms. Legault put it.
They hit it off and wandered around the mall for hours. But when they finished making the rounds through both floors, they didn't yet want to part. Ms. Legault invited him to her apartment to see her newborn kitten, Beans.
That night, they shared their first kiss. From then on, they hung out almost every day. They built Legos together, painted, and visited quaint towns around New Hampshire's White Mountains, where they snapped photos of street murals and autumn leaves. They also played lots of Mario games on their Nintendo Switch and GameCube.
"She's just one of the kindest and sweetest people I've ever met," Mr. Ferron said. Early in their relationship, she left him gifts like his favorite snacks (pumpkin pie and Chex Mix), flowers and "little sappy love notes," she said. "He's a teddy bear."
"I've never met anybody like him," Ms. Legault said. "He's just full of not only fun facts, but just so intelligent, and I'm just so drawn to him."
In June 2021, about two years into their relationship, the couple moved to Nashville, where they had found an affordable apartment along the Cumberland River. Ms. Legault worked remotely as an order entry manager for Kriss Law/Atlantic Closing & Escrow, a real estate company based in Needham, Mass. Mr. Ferron found work in property maintenance.
Though Ms. Legault is more of a recluse and spent most of her time working from home and playing with Beans and Mr. Ferron's cat, Sterling, Mr. Ferron found a community of friends in Nashville that he had never really had in his hometown.
Ms. Legault considers those days to be some of "the best" of her life, adding that she wishes she could go back to that time.
But in February 2023, everything changed.
For as long as Mr. Ferron had known her, Ms. Legault had been experiencing painful headaches. In the months leading up to that February, it was getting worse, and she was suffering from severe vomiting. She made several trips to the emergency room.
"I always just ended up walking out with a big bill and no solution," Ms. Legault said. "There were points where I was in a fetal position on the floor."
That month, an M.R.I. scan revealed that she had a brain tumor in her frontal lobe that had been growing slowly over the years. A few months later, a doctor detected another tumor in her brain.
Through it all, Mr. Ferron was her rock. After returning home every day, he asked her if she needed anything: water, medication, an extra blanket. He cooked every night, did the dishes, and if she couldn't eat because she was too sick, he'd put something in the fridge for later. He always ran home from work whenever she was really ill, and he'd always take her to her medical appointments.
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
Ms. Legault's prognosis kept getting worse, and a third tumor developed. To comply with her parents' wishes, she moved into their basement in Littleton in May. Mr. Ferron wanted to be with her, so he followed her up North and moved into his grandparents' home in Nashua.
Quitting his job and relocating "bankrupted" him, he said: "I had no other place to go." Mr. Ferron is currently working in private maintenance while also trying to advance his writing career. In 2021, he self-published a novel called "The Reaper Chronicles" under the pseudonym F.T. Scott. The novel's main character is loosely based on his own life as a child who spent years in a foster home and found it hard to fit in.
Leaving Nashville was tough for Mr. Ferron. "Finally, I did find a place where I fit in -- great job, great co-workers and I really saw a future following that job." But it was a sacrifice that was necessary. He knew he could find another job, but he said the opportunity to be with his soul mate was invaluable.
Ms. Legault was a strong support system for Mr. Ferron throughout the publishing process, offering feedback and encouragement. Now, as he works on a second novel, she still cheers him on.
"It's always kind of been just the two of us against the world," Mr. Ferron said. "I'm perfectly content just cuddling with her in bed, taking care of her, and we'll put on a movie, or we'll put on a Mario game together like we used to."
When the couple decided to get married in May, they weren't sure how they would do it. They had blown through their savings to pay for treatments, and in November, she left her job and her benefits were terminated. They weren't sure how they could afford a wedding -- even a simple one.
In June, Mr. Ferron discovered Wish Upon a Wedding, a nonprofit group that grants weddings and vow renewals to couples facing terminal illnesses. They contacted the organization, which connected them with Sophie Escoll, a 32-year-old publicist in Charlestown, Mass. Ms. Escoll had been planning a 200-person wedding in Newport, R.I., for August.
Three weeks before the wedding date, the couple called it off. Ms. Escoll wanted to make good use of the vendor services that had already been paid for. She was also a cancer survivor who has been free of ovarian cancer since 2021. So, when her wedding planner discovered Wish Upon a Wedding, Ms. Escoll saw an opportunity to pay it forward and help another couple begin their marriage.
"I had spent almost two years planning this crazy wedding that never came to fruition, and it felt like it would be another layer of loss, beyond the breakup of my relationship, to lose everything we had put into the wedding," Ms. Escoll said. And luckily, Ms. Legault and Mr. Ferron were in the area. "The stars aligned," said Lacey Wicksall, the organization's executive director.
Almost $ 30,000 of transferable vendor services were donated to the couple, including the wedding planner and designer, Lindsey Shaktman of Mavinhouse Events, which is based in Ipswich, Mass.
The wedding was held on Nov. 7 at Amherst Woman's Club in Amherst, Mass., in front of about 50 guests. Ashton Ferron, Mr. Ferron's brother, led the ceremony. The couple did not get legally married because Ms. Legault did not want to pass the debt she incurred as a result of her cancer treatments to Mr. Ferron.
"It ended up being the most perfect day," Ms. Legault said. The couple stayed at a hotel on Amherst College's campus, and on the morning of the wedding, Ms. Legault met her stepmother, Cynthia Legault, and five bridesmaids at the venue. They got ready, had some doughnuts from Dunkin', and slowly, guests started arriving.
Both their dads walked Ms. Legault down the aisle to "Wonderful Tonight" by Eric Clapton. For their first dance song, the couple danced to "Only You" by the Platters.
For Mr. Ferron, the highlight of the day was seeing Ms. Legault walk down the aisle. "From not knowing whether we'd get to that point, to six months later just seeing everything kind of come to fruition the way we wanted it -- it was just a really surreal moment to finally see that happening," he said.
Though Ms. Legault hasn't received an updated prognosis, she underwent chemotherapy and radiation over the course of several months, and her three tumors are currently stable.
"One day at a time is kind of my mojo really, right now," Ms. Legault said. "But I know that he would be here for me no matter how ill I got."
On This Day
When Nov. 7, 2024
Where Amherst Woman's Club, Amherst, Mass.
Something Borrowed Ms. Legault borrowed a dress that her stepmother had worn at her own vow renewal. Ms. Legault's original wedding gown no longer fit her because she had gained 60 pounds from chemotherapy. "It was nice to feel pretty for a day," Ms. Legault said.
An Old-Time Vibe For the ceremony, the couple went for a "rustic vibe," Mr. Ferron said. "We're not these big, ritzy and glamorous people. We like something that's more homey, something that kind of embodied the music that we had bonded over."
Photograph Moira Legault and Tyler Ferron at their Nov. 7 "rustic vibe" wedding celebration in Amherst, Mass. The bride says, "I'm just trying to spend as many days as I can with this man." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GLEB BUDILOVSKY PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST20.

Subject: Weddings; Brain cancer; Marriage

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/06/style/moira-legault-tyler-ferron-wedding.html

Title: After Dismaying Prognosis, One 'Perfect Day' to Savor:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.20

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 8, 2024

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3141930575

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-dismaying-prognosis-one-perfect-day-savor/docview/3141930575/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Swept Up in Hunter Biden's Whirlwind: [Style Desk]

Author: Bernstein, Joseph

Publication info: Bernstein, Joseph. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/swept-up-hunter-bidens-whirlwind/docview/3141930559/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Zoë Kestan first met Hunter Biden she didn't know who he was. His father, Joseph R. Biden Jr., was no longer in office, and she didn't read the news much anyway.
As far as Ms. Kestan knew, as she neared the end of her shift at Vivid Cabaret, the Midtown Manhattan strip club where she performed, Mr. Biden was just another V.I.P. client with the clout to book a private room in the wee hours of the morning.
And Ms. Kestan, at the time a 24-year-old downtown "it" girl, fashion designer and social media star, could have had no idea, as she rode the elevator to the top floor of the club, that the evening would change her life -- plunging her into an 11-month love affair with a man whose personal conduct would become the subject of the country's prurient curiosity.
Her relationship with the handsome, well-dressed customer would end with intimate images of Ms. Kestan exposed to the world, via Mr. Biden's infamous laptop, and turn her into a tabloid figure in her own right, dragged into the chummed waters of a partisan-media feeding frenzy.
It would also force Ms. Kestan -- as one of the most extensive observers of Mr. Biden's drug use -- to testify in federal court this spring, along with some of his other former romantic partners.
Seven years after their meeting, Ms. Kestan, 31, is still trying to process what happened. She became well known, but on terms totally different from those she had imagined. The collision of her local fame with Mr. Biden's national notoriety left her with whiplash, unsure of who she was.
"I was confronted with the fact that the only thing I know about my identity now is -- I'm still affected by this person, and certain people around me think of me only in relation to him," said Ms. Kestan in an interview from her Brooklyn apartment, where she lives with her Shih Tzu, Enzo.
Mr. Biden's regular appearances in the news, she says, have made it hard for her to move on, personally and professionally. On Sunday, President Biden announced that he would pardon his son, who was scheduled to be sentenced this month on federal gun and tax evasion charges.
Neither Mr. Biden nor his lawyers responded to requests for comment.
While Ms. Kestan did not want to address her ex's high-profile reprieve, she has much to say about her year with Mr. Biden, and its difficult aftermath. There's no doubt she has lived through something sensational and extraordinary, but she can't quite figure out how it fits in with the rest of her life.
Inventing 'WeedSlut'
A New Yorker through and through, Ms. Kestan, the daughter of a lawyer and a saleswoman, grew up in the Yorkville section of the Upper East Side. She attended the elite Horace Mann School, and a lifelong love of fashion and art led her to the Rhode Island School of Design, where she nurtured plans to turn her designs into a brand. Ms. Kestan returned to the city after graduation, by day working for Jeff Koons as a color mixer, and by night immersing herself in Manhattan nightlife. A regular at the Boom Boom Room and China Chalet, she found herself mixing with other designers and picking up freelance projects for Telfar Clemens and the rapper Travis Scott.
She became a star in the downtown world through her Instagram, which combined images of Ms. Kestan in scant dress (often consuming marijuana) with a rainbow-colored moodboard of objects that caught her eye: a Lego house, some patterned yarn, an orange cream soda.
Ms. Kestan had long been a reader of Vice Magazine, which spurred her fascination with porn stars like Sasha Grey and Stoya, who she thought embodied a kind of intelligent feminist sexuality.
"Slutty was an art form for her," said Matheus Lima, a longtime friend of Ms. Kestan's.
It was through her Instagram that Ms. Kestan was discovered by Andrew Richardson, the publisher of a namesake magazine and streetwear label pitched at the intersection of erotica, skate culture and the art world.
Mr. Richardson hired Ms. Kestan to dance at his parties and had her photographed for his magazine. Ms. Kestan soon became a fixture in a dissolute 2010s milieu that included figures like Julia Fox and Jack Donoghue -- people who were not yet famous but on the cusp of it.
In 2015, she lost her Jeff Koons job but soon picked up another as a designer at the ad agency Wieden+Kennedy. Still, she was looking to supplement her income. After some encouragement from a friend who was a stripper, Ms. Kestan began dancing at Vivid Cabaret.
"It boosted my confidence a lot," she said. "It made me feel really powerful."
In the spring of 2017, Ms. Kestan folded all of her nightlife connections and fascinations with the aesthetics of sex work and weed into a collection of lingerie and apparel that she showed at Paul's Baby Grand, a cocktail lounge in TriBeCa.
"WEEDSLUT," read a flier defining her new brand, "is about embracing and enjoying the effort and glamour of an exaggerated style of dress that is unashamedly dripping with sexuality."
Ms. Kestan felt the show was a triumph, and started visiting manufacturers.
"She had a lot of ideas and energy, and she was hard-working," Mr. Richardson said. "After the show at Paul's Baby Grand, we all thought she was going to go on and do something."
Later that year, she met Mr. Biden.
'I'm Just So Attracted to Him'
A few days after their private dance, Ms. Kestan walked into a suite at the Soho Grand Hotel and found Mr. Biden in his underwear smoking cigarettes and blasting Sturgill Simpson. By then, she had figured out who he was, and when another dancer invited her to a party with Mr. Biden at the downtown hotel, Ms. Kestan figured, Why not? Her brand was debauchery and camp, and she was young.
In the hotel room, Mr. Biden immediately asked Ms. Kestan about her work: He wanted to see photos of her designs, to connect on a creative level.
It was disarming, Ms. Kestan remembered. Mr. Biden was 47, nearly twice her age, but he wanted to talk to her as a peer. And he was exciting and spontaneous. When Ms. Kestan mentioned that she wanted to check out some new designs at a nearby lingerie shop, Mr. Biden handed Ms. Kestan the keys to his Porsche to drive the seven blocks from the hotel. Then, she said, he persuaded the staff to let them stay past closing so they could browse.
That night they dined at Fanelli Cafe, and stayed up until 4 a.m. talking. Mr. Biden spoke of his children; his brother Beau, who died in 2015; and his addictions -- to alcohol, and more recently, to crack cocaine. He looked back wistfully at his periods of sobriety, and said he wanted to get sober again. He took a pull from his glass pipe, she said, every 20 minutes, but when he took it he didn't seem impaired or different; he just seemed like himself.
In the morning, Mr. Biden asked Ms. Kestan to stay the week with him. She knew this was fast, but she felt a powerful connection between them.
"I'm just so attracted to him," Ms. Kestan said, recalling her thinking. "I did not want to leave."
Thus began the pattern of their relationship: stays, some long and some short, at luxury hotels in New York and Los Angeles -- the Four Seasons, the Mercer, 6 Columbus, the Roosevelt, the Freehand, the Jeremy. In New York, Ms. Kestan introduced Mr. Biden to her downtown demimonde, taking him to art openings and fashion shows and out to dinner at Lucien. Not yet a national figure, Mr. Biden largely went unrecognized.
The pair had discussed a stint in rehab for Mr. Biden, and agreed to go together to California for him to get sober. But when Ms. Kestan arrived in Los Angeles, Mr. Biden had changed plans, renting a bungalow for a month at the Chateau Marmont on the Sunset Strip.
The haven for immoderation was hardly a place to slow down. But the timing was perfect: Ms. Kestan needed to supervise manufacturing of the WeedSlut line at factories in the area.
Ms. Kestan remembers this stay as the highlight of their relationship. Mr. Biden introduced her around the hotel as his girlfriend, and the pair explored the city together. She found Mr. Biden funny, smart and charming: a history buff who wanted to talk about Genghis Khan and Cleopatra; an artist at heart who wanted to write a great book, gave her ideas for WeedSlut merchandise and listened to her read Camille Paglia essays late into the night; and an exhibitionist who loved posing for selfies as much as she did, and mused about posting explicit videos of himself to Pornhub.
And he was touchingly sensitive, she said. Up late one night, taking mushrooms and listening to their favorite music, Mr. Biden had a surprising reaction to a song by the rapper Lil Peep that Ms. Kestan had put on. The artist had died recently of an overdose, and hearing his songs made Mr. Biden sad. He asked her to turn it off.
Another night, Ms. Kestan introduced Mr. Biden to her mother over dinner at the Chateau. Her mother was skeptical.
"She didn't say anything bad about him," Ms. Kestan said. "But she wasn't particularly impressed."
It wasn't just her. A month earlier, Ms. Kestan had invited her friend, Mr. Lima, to a Manhattan hotel suite to meet Mr. Biden. At first, Mr. Lima was charmed: Mr. Biden was easy to talk to and gave him a gold ring.
"But then very quickly I was like, This has a price," Mr. Lima said. "You don't just get things for free." Mr. Lima expressed his concerns to Ms. Kestan; in particular, he was worried that Mr. Biden's lifestyle could be a danger to her. When Ms. Kestan continued to see Mr. Biden, Mr. Lima was distraught.
"I care so much for her safety, but she's choosing this scary guy over her own future and goals," he said.
Party's Over
As the couple's stay at the Chateau Marmont neared its end, Ms. Kestan had started to understand just how deeply Mr. Biden's addiction ruled his life. When Ms. Kestan went to sleep, she said, Mr. Biden would retreat into the bathroom, where he would set up a laptop and a crack pipe on a chair and stay up all night making phone calls. If no one answered, he would find cam girls on the internet to keep him company.
At other times, Ms. Kestan said, Mr. Biden would go on late-night drives around Los Angeles, sometimes bringing strangers back to the hotel to party. Or he would join her poolside in the morning after a night out, collapsing onto a chaise longue with a double vodka.
He had also turned her into a kind of personal assistant, sending her out to get money from the A.T.M. to pay dealers. He told her that his money was her money, but sometimes he asked Ms. Kestan to spot him.
One morning she woke up and Mr. Biden was gone. When she called him, he said he had rented another bungalow in the hotel to party with some people he had just met. Later, he disappeared for days, claiming he was checking into rehab. But Ms. Kestan, whom Mr. Biden had trusted with his passwords, saw that he was taking money out of the bank far from where he said he was.
At other times, Mr. Biden seemed paranoid, blaming Ms. Kestan when he misplaced his laptop, and accusing her of speaking ill of him to her friends.
Ms. Kestan knew Mr. Biden wouldn't change for her, but she was in love, and she kept traveling to see him: to Malibu, and finally, in November 2018, to Newburyport, Mass., where Mr. Biden was undergoing ketamine therapy to treat his addiction. When she arrived, it was obvious it hadn't taken -- he wanted to find powder cocaine he could cook into crack.
Ms. Kestan drove him to Providence, where she still had college connections who could sell it to them. In a hotel there, the two discussed the English cultural theorist Mark Fisher and listened to "Red Scare," the edgy cultural commentary podcast that would later have Ms. Kestan on as a guest.
The next morning, he dropped her off at the Providence Amtrak station. It was the last time she would see him in person until she saw him in court this June.
After they parted at the station, the pair began to fight bitterly over text, with Mr. Biden by turns lashing out and self-flagellating.
"I wronged you," Mr. Biden wrote in a WhatsApp message. "I intentionally hurt you. I am a bad man. You need to be away from me forever."
"Know how much I am grieving the beauty that was our relationship," Ms. Kestan responded.
Frequent texts became infrequent emails, and then communication mostly stopped.
In the spring of 2019, Ms. Kestan reached out to Mr. Biden to congratulate him on his daughter's high school graduation, which she had seen on Instagram. When she didn't hear back, she sent him another message to make sure he was OK. Shortly after, Mr. Biden wrote to her for the last time.
"Hi Zoe," Mr. Biden wrote in an email. "I got married to the love of my life, and I'm happier than I have ever been. I have begun a new life with my beautiful wife and ask you to please honor my privacy. Wish you well."
The Laptop
In the months after Ms. Kestan stopped seeing Mr. Biden, she felt unmoored. She hadn't danced since the relationship started, and when she tried working again at Vivid Cabaret, she lasted only two shifts.
Meanwhile, the WeedSlut collection was ready, but Ms. Kestan couldn't find the energy to market it. The brand she had spent years building didn't seem right anymore. It had nothing to do with Mr. Biden, and yet she felt it was linked to him. When Instagram took down her account for violating community guidelines, she didn't try to get it reinstated.
"I started not liking it anymore," she said. "I was embarrassed by it."
In October 2020, The New York Post reported that emails from a laptop belonging to Hunter Biden contained incriminating evidence against him and his father, at the time the Democratic presidential nominee. The paper's claims about wrongdoing on the elder Biden's part were not substantiated, but as the story took off, the laptop -- which contained thousands of images, videos and text messages from a time period that coincided with Ms. Kestan and Mr. Biden's relationship -- became a media sensation.
As explicit images from the laptop spread on social media, Ms. Kestan had two reactions. One was concern for her family: Anonymous accounts on Reddit and 4chan, for instance, had posted personal details about her parents and friends.
The other was a strange sense of validation.
"Now there's physical evidence that we spent that time together," Ms. Kestan said.
The contents of the laptop also helped Ms. Kestan confirm suspicions she had throughout the relationship. Time stamps seemed to suggest that when Mr. Biden had told her he was checking into various rehabs, he was doing anything but.
And through news reports, Ms. Kestan learned that Mr. Biden had fathered a child with an Arkansas woman, while Ms. Kestan and Mr. Biden were together. Mr. Biden had told Ms. Kestan that she was the only person he had slept with since getting together with his brother's widow, Hallie Biden.
But if these revelations made Ms. Kestan more ready to move on, national events wouldn't let her. Mr. Biden's laptop became the focus of investigations into Mr. Biden's taxes and his purchase of a handgun, and Republicans in Congress had a field day with evidence of his tawdry life.
In July 2023, during a hearing of the House Oversight and Accountability Committee about the I.R.S. investigation into Mr. Biden's taxes, Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia held up a poster board covered in sexually explicit images of Mr. Biden, including one with Ms. Kestan, which made Ms. Kestan feel, as she put it, "gross and angry."
Fox News posted a video segment about Ms. Greene's stunt on its website with a headline identifying Ms. Kestan as a "prostitute," a job she has never had. Other publications identified her as Mr. Biden's "stripper ex."
When a federal case charging Mr. Biden with illegally purchasing a firearm made its way to court this June, prosecutors called on Ms. Kestan to testify about their relationship. By the time she arrived at the Delaware courthouse, in a black blazer, Pucci scarf and oversize Celine sunglasses, Ms. Kestan was a player in a national drama. And Mr. Biden, who could once walk into a store without being disturbed, was now a celebrity, pilloried by the right as an embodiment of Democratic rot, pitied by many for his addiction and celebrated by sections of the internet as a kind of ironic loser-hero.
In court, when Ms. Kestan identified Mr. Biden for the record, her famous ex -- now sober and married -- waved at her, and smiled.
Her sweeping, colorful testimony included a detail about Mr. Biden's fondness for the indie band Fleet Foxes that spread widely online. It was also a rigorous chronology of Mr. Biden's drug use in her presence, which prosecutors used to establish that he had been addicted to crack when he applied for the gun, and had lied about it on the application.
Under oath, Ms. Kestan discussed his crack pipes and smoking schedule, the parade of dealers, the succession of hotels, his increasingly erratic behavior, the failed attempts at rehab.
This was one reason she sometimes cut her trips to see him short: because, she testified, she couldn't handle seeing him in person not trying to get sober.
"I thought that if I left," she said during her testimony, "he finally would."
Moving On
Days after Ms. Kestan testified, Mr. Biden was found guilty of three felony charges related to the handgun purchase. Then, on Sept. 5, Mr. Biden pleaded guilty to nine charges in a federal tax case against him.
Until President Biden pardoned his son on Sunday, reversing an earlier position that he would not do so, the younger Biden faced a maximum of 17 years in prison for the tax case, and 25 for the gun case, though he was unlikely to receive a sentence near that length.
Ms. Kestan did not comment on the pardon. But she said Mr. Biden's plea had come as a relief: It spared her yet another testimony. And it closed a surreal and sometimes painful chapter in her life she hopes to move past.
"I don't have regrets about anything I did online or with Hunter," she said. "I don't want to live that way."
At the same time, Ms. Kestan says that the relationship has cast a shadow over her in ways she didn't expect. She hasn't had a serious relationship since Mr. Biden, and she can't help wondering whether a succession of promising job interviews that did not turn into job offers has something to do with what happens when you search her name on Google.
"It was only a year of my life, but it doesn't feel like something that should have defined me for so long," she said.
After several years in the creative wilderness, Ms. Kestan has started a new home décor line, and she has been working as design director for the decorative artist and designer Elizabeth Hayt.
And she's stepping out again.
Last month, Ms. Kestan attended an opening at Lomex, an au courant TriBeCa gallery, for Kye Christensen-Knowles, whom she met when they were college freshmen at the Rhode Island School of Design.
Mr. Christensen-Knowles had included in his show a portrait of Ms. Kestan, along with ones portraying other members of the painter's milieu, like the cult writer Dennis Cooper and the art dealer Begum Yasar.
Wearing pink Pucci tights and a nylon bodysuit, Ms. Kestan mingled with the fashionable crowd, some of whom had known her for many years. Like Ms. Kestan, they weren't totally sure what to make of her relationship with Mr. Biden.
Alexander Shulan, who owns the gallery and is friendly with Ms. Kestan, called the relationship "confusing and strange," an uncanny example of the intermixing of cultural spheres.
Mr. Christensen-Knowles described it as a challenge that Ms. Kestan was capable of overcoming. "This is an albatross that is necessary for her to confront so she can grow," he said.
He had painted Ms. Kestan in a pink skirt suit, heels and a pearl bracelet -- as a Jackie Kennedy-esque political spouse. Her gaze is cast down, and her hair is gathered into disquieting tendrils.
"She has an aura that has always struck me, an old-world grace and dignity to her beauty," Mr. Christensen-Knowles said. "I was hoping to capture her how I see her: as a dignified subject with inherent power."
Photograph Above, from left: Zoë Kestan with her dog, Enzo; her work space at her Brooklyn apartment; and one of her early fashion designs. Below right, Ms. Kestan outside the federal courthouse where she testified in a case involving Hunter Biden, a former romantic partner, in June. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRAHAM DICKIE/THE NEW YORK TIMES; KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (ST18-ST19) This article appeared in print on page ST18, ST19.

Subject: Cabaret; Design; Lingerie; Manufacturing; Fashion designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Biden, Hunter; Koons, Jeff

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/03/style/zoe-kestan-hunter-biden.html

Title: Swept Up in Hunter Biden's Whirlwind:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.18

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 8, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3141930559

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/swept-up-hunter-bidens-whirlwind/docview/3141930559/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

This Is What a Juggernaut Looks Like: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Zuckerman, Esther

Publication info: Zuckerman, Esther. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-is-what-juggernaut-looks-like/docview/3141930532/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The new movie's tie-ins are the logical endpoint for a Broadway show that always intended to be huge.
It started with the dolls.
As a longtime fan of "Wicked" who grew up collecting Barbies, I was immediately intrigued by the Mattel creations resembling Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo in the movie version of the Broadway musical. They were perfectly rendered in likeness and even sang snippets of "Popular" and "Defying Gravity." I'll admit, I coveted them.
But that was just the beginning of the "Wicked" merchandise. Soon my Instagram and X feeds were inundated with pink and green collaborations. Some made sense in the context of both the movie and the stars. Why, of course Grande's R.E.M. Beauty brand would feature a line of "Wicked"-inspired goods. She might as well promote both her performance and her entrepreneurial venture at the same time.
Other "Wicked" products ranged from the functional to the positively ridiculous, but they all contributed to the sense that "Wicked" was absolutely everywhere, making it perhaps one of the most marketed movies in recent memory, surpassing even the hot pink inundation of "Barbie" last year.
I discovered many of these via the X account Wicked News Hub, which posts every tiny update about the film and its promotional path. It is run by a lawyer in Manchester, England, who started it out of a love of all things Grande. (He asked to keep the identity behind the account private.) "Although I expected a lot of collaborations, from tracking 'Wicked' news over the years, even I was surprised by the incredible amount of collaborations and goodies," he wrote in an email.
There are "Wicked" versions of the TikTok-popular Stanley Cups, which according to some reports caused pandemonium when they were released in Target. They seem like your standard drinking vessel, but the film promotion capitalized on the fervor. There are "Wicked"-themed Crocs. (The Glinda ones have heels.) There are "Wicked" clothing lines for the Gap, H&M, Bloomingdale's and Forever 21. You can buy "Wicked" Legos and "Wicked" Monopoly. There are even "Wicked" hair dryers. (The Mattel dolls weathered a minor controversy when the packaging accidentally bore the URL for a porn site, not the movie.)
Starbucks has an enormous "Wicked" line that includes bedazzled tumblers and two themed drinks: Glinda's Pink Potion and Elphaba's Cold Brew. While getting a boring plain latte, I sampled the Elphaba, assuming the Glinda would hurt my teeth. It was minty.
Then came the "Wicked" instant macaroni and cheese from Walmart's Great Value label. The little containers are labeled "mystery color" so you don't know whether your mac will turn out a murky green or a Pepto Bismol pink.
The mystery macaroni is perhaps the moment "Wicked" marketing moved into absurdist territory. But why has it been so aggressive -- even more so than the pushes for "Inside Out 2" and "Deadpool & Wolverine," currently the highest grossing films of the year?
In part, you can attribute this to Universal's intense efforts to make "Wicked" a global phenomenon. "Inside Out 2" and "Deadpool & Wolverine," both from Disney, are sequels that are part of recognizable brands. The "Wicked" goods sell not just a movie, but a lifestyle, too. Marvel and Pixar are already accepted as such. "Wicked" is a newcomer, at least in the cinematic sphere.
Of course, the stage version of "Wicked" does have name value, having toured the world since debuting on Broadway in 2003. Its roots as an origin story for the beloved 1939 MGM classic "The Wizard of Oz," starring Judy Garland, shouldn't be overlooked either. Oz iconography is already highly marketable. There's a Marc Jacobs "Wizard of Oz" collection currently on sale that has nothing to do with "Wicked" but surely will benefit from Oz fever.
Universal's president of franchise management and brand strategy, David O'Connor, told me in a video call that the studio held a "fair" to which it invited potential brand partners to build interest in the film. But O'Connor, who saw the musical several times over the years, knew there was a "multigenerational" appeal to the story.
"There is this incredible fan base, and there was this incredible opportunity to really extend the film and allow consumers to engage with the brand in a variety of ways, from little girls playing with dolls to boys and girls playing with Lego play sets to teens, tweens and Gen Z going to Starbucks to the adults with our Lexus partnership," he said.
While there is no overt product placement in Jon M. Chu's film adaptation, you can see how its aesthetics lend itself to all the merchandise it has inspired. One of the most crucial sequences involves the makeover that Glinda tries to give Elphaba as she sings "Popular" in their Shiz University dorm room, which she has spruced up with pink accouterments. Want to do something similar? Well, you too can have pink "Wicked" luggage like Glinda, and light a pink "Wicked" candle for ambience. Then get some of the many "Wicked" beauty tools and accessories from Ulta. Follow that with a manicure using colors from the OPI collection just like the one our heroines get when they reach the Emerald City.
This is capitalism at its finest, and there will be more to come when Part 2 of the saga debuts next year.
But actually I understand why "Wicked" merchandise might just work. I first saw the Broadway production as a 13-year-old and immediately became obsessed. It appealed to every part of my tweenage-girl brain. In Elphaba, the green outcast with big dreams, I saw the lonely side of myself, trying desperately to fit in. But the inherent humor in Glinda, the queen bee who claims she can make anyone popular, was instantly appealing, too. She had the best punchlines and the prettiest dresses.
If I could have lived my middle school life in "Wicked" clothes, wearing "Wicked" makeup, even eating "Wicked" food, I probably would have.
So this merchandising influx feels almost like the natural endgame for this Broadway property. Onstage, "Wicked" developed its own eye-catching version of Oz that was instantly recognizable, and while the movie expands on that, it is all a riff on the foundation the show established. "Wicked" was designed to be a juggernaut, but Broadway can reach only so many people. Now that it's a movie, its reach has expanded to the point where it's unavoidable.
Perhaps that's overwhelming, but, you know what? I now own two of the Mattel dolls. My mother recently sent them because she remembered the little girl belting out the songs in the car.
Photograph The "Wicked" product line ranges from Mattel versions of Glinda and Elphaba, top from left, to tumblers and Crocs, above, all sticking to the green-and-pink color scheme of the Broadway musical and the new film. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTEL; CROCS; STANLEY) This article appeared in print on page AR6.

Subject: Musical theater; Broadway theater; Motion pictures; Film adaptations

Company / organization: Name: Mattel Inc; NAICS: 336991, 339930; Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/26/movies/wicked-merchandise .html

Title: This Is What a Juggernaut Looks Like:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 8, 2024

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3141930532

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-is-what-juggernaut-looks-like/docview/3141930532/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Glicked' Duo Jump-Starts Box Office: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Barnes, Brooks

Publication info: Barnes, Brooks. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/glicked-duo-jump-starts-box-office/docview/3132478238/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Battling a 27 percent decline in domestic ticket sales compared with before the pandemic, studios left no marketing drum unthumped in releasing the movies.
Hollywood was back this weekend to where it desperately hungers to be -- at the center of global culture.
Women flocked to the PG-rated "Wicked," a lavish adaptation of Act One of the popular Broadway musical, while men supported "Gladiator II," an R-rated sequel 24 years in the making. Together, the two big-budget movies sold an estimated $ 384 million in tickets worldwide, bringing the box office back to life after months of audience indifference. Going into the weekend, ticket sales were down about 11 percent from last year in the United States and Canada -- and 27 percent compared with before the pandemic.
"Wicked" was No. 1 in North America, with sales from Friday through Sunday of roughly $ 95 million from 3,888 theaters, for a total since opening in previews earlier in the week of $ 114 million. That sum made "Wicked" the third-highest opener for the year, behind $ 211 million for "Deadpool & Wolverine" and $ 154 million for "Inside Out 2." (Overseas, "Wicked" was expected to collect an additional $ 48 million.)
Ridley Scott's "Gladiator II" collected about $ 56 million in North America, including previews, for a worldwide total since arriving in overseas release earlier this month of about $ 220 million.
"This weekend's two strong openers are invigorating a box office that fell apart after a good summer," said David A. Gross, a film consultant who publishes a newsletter on box office numbers.
But the bounce came at a steep price.
To convince people that "Wicked" was worth a trip to the multiplex, Universal Pictures mounted one of the largest marketing campaigns in Hollywood history. The no-expense-spared effort started in February at the Super Bowl and did not let up, leaving some competing studio marketers slack-jawed.
Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande, who star in "Wicked," were omnipresent at the Summer Olympics. NBC broadcast an hourlong infomercial about the movie. Universal theme parks pounded promotional drums. The "Today" show chipped in blanket coverage. Universal Pictures, which is part of the NBCUniversal media conglomerate, secured more than 400 brand partnerships for the film, resulting in "Wicked" dolls from Mattel, "Wicked" drinks at Starbucks, "Wicked" LEGO sets, and "Wicked" cardigans at Target, just to name four. Ms. Erivo and Ms. Grande gave so many interviews that they seemed, at times, to be nearing a breaking point.
The marketing onslaught is not over: The movie will have a "significant" presence on Thursday at Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade on NBC, Universal said. "Wicked: Part Two" is scheduled for release next year, so get comfy with "Wicked" everything. Together, the two movies will easily cost more than $ 500 million to make and market.
Is this now what it takes to fill theaters? Movies, especially ones like "Wicked," a mega-spectacle with mega-reviews based on a mega-musical, used to be able to commandeer the culture by themselves.
"Sadly, filmgoing has fallen further and further down the leisure-time priority list, and the best hope studios have is to manufacture a cultural event," Stephen Galloway, the dean of Chapman University's film school, said in an email.
He added of brand partnerships: "There's a kind of irony here. To show the world you're unique and different, you turn to businesses that promise customers their products are just the same."
"Gladiator II," which cost Paramount Pictures at least $ 350 million to make and market, was also given a hard sell, despite being a well-reviewed sequel to a blockbuster that won the prize for best picture at the 2001 Oscars and has remained popular on home video. To generate interest in "Gladiator II," Paramount Pictures advertised heavily at sporting events; staged premieres in Australia, Japan, Ireland, France, Denmark, Britain and the United States; set up extensive partnerships with Ferrari and Pepsi; and simultaneously debuted a final 60-second trailer for the film on more than 4,000 television networks, digital platforms, local stations, Spanish-language outlets and radio stations.
"Wicked," directed by Jon M. Chu, easily set a domestic box office record for the biggest opening of a live-action musical. The record is currently held by "Hairspray," which arrived to $ 43 million in domestic ticket sales in 2007, after adjusting for inflation. (The Hollywood record books only go back to the 1970s.)
About 72 percent of ticket buyers for "Wicked" were female, according to PostTrak, an exit polling service, meaning that Universal's attempt to convince men that a glittery, two-hour-and-40-minute musical was worth their time was not entirely successful. Deadline, an entertainment trade news site, estimated on Thursday that "Wicked" was on track to take in between $ 130 million and $ 150 million in tickets in North America over the weekend.
Some 60 percent of "Gladiator II" ticket buyers were male, according to PostTrak. Paramount was thrilled with the demographic breakdown, noting that roughly half of ticket buyers were under 35, a sign that the sequel had reached a new generation while maintaining the legacy audience.
To some degree, "Wicked" helped fuel "Gladiator II" and vice versa, with their simultaneous release in the United States and Canada nicknamed "Glicked," and movie fans -- captivated by their wild incongruity -- taking in double features and dressing in elaborate costumes. Box office analysts said the effect was minimal, however, at least compared with "Barbenheimer" last year, when hundreds of thousands of moviegoers paid to see "Barbie" and "Oppenheimer" in back-to-back screenings.
Both "Wicked" and "Gladiator II" amounted to cinematic comfort food -- escapist, over-the-top stories that allowed Americans to leave behind a bruising presidential campaign and the continuing impact of inflation. People reach for nostalgia in times of stress, and movies that remind audiences of the past have been succeeding. Examples include "Wonka," "Bad Boys: Ride or Die," "Beetlejuice Beetlejuice," "Twisters" and now "Wicked," with its roots in "The Wizard of Oz," and "Gladiator II," with its sandals and swords.
Photograph In a box office battle of the sexes, "Wicked," with Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo, top, attracted mostly women and took in $ 114 million, while "Gladiator II," starring Paul Mescal, was more popular with men and collected $ 56 million. Hollywood hopes such divergent hits can produce a box office synergy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILES KEYTE/UNIVERSAL PICTURES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; AIDAN MONAGHAN/PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Marketing; Ticket sales; Motion pictures; Remakes & sequels; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing

Location: United States--US; Canada; North America

People: Grande, Ariana; Erivo, Cynthia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/24/business/media/wicked-gladiator-2-box-office.html

Title: 'Glicked' Duo Jump-Starts Box Office:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 25, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132478238

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/glicked-duo-jump-starts-box-office/docview/3132478238/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-25

Database: Global Ne wsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

‘Wicked’ and ‘Gladiator II’ Jump-Start the Box Office, but at a Cost

Author: Barnes, Brooks

Publication info: Barnes, Brooks. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wicked-gladiator-ii-jump-start-box-office-at-cost/docview/3132457018/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: LOS ANGELES — Hollywood was back this weekend to where it desperately hungers to be — at the center of global culture.
Women flocked to the PG-rated “Wicked,” a lavish adaptation of Act One of the popular Broadway musical, while men supported “Gladiator II,” an R-rated sequel 24 years in the making. Together, the two big-budget movies sold an estimated $384 million in tickets worldwide, bringing the box office back to life after months of audience indifference. Going into the weekend, ticket sales were down about 11% from last year in the United States and Canada — and 27% compared with before the pandemic.
“Wicked” was No. 1 in North America, with sales from Friday through Sunday of roughly $95 million from 3,888 theaters, for a total since opening in previews earlier in the week of $114 million. That sum made “Wicked” the third-highest opener for the year, behind $211 million for “Deadpool & Wolverine” and $154 million for “Inside Out 2.” (Overseas, “Wicked” was expected to collect an additional $48 million.)
Ridley Scott’s “Gladiator II” collected about $56 million in North America, including previews, for a worldwide total since arriving in overseas release earlier this month of about $220 million.
“This weekend’s two strong openers are invigorating a box office that fell apart after a good summer,” said David A. Gross, a film consultant who publishes a newsletter on box office numbers.
But the bounce came at a steep price.
To convince people that “Wicked” was worth a trip to the multiplex, Universal Pictures mounted one of the largest marketing campaigns in Hollywood history. The no-expense-spared effort started in February at the Super Bowl and did not let up, leaving some competing studio marketers slack-jawed.
Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande, who star in “Wicked,” were omnipresent at the Summer Olympics. NBC broadcast an hourlong infomercial about the movie. Universal theme parks pounded promotional drums. The “Today” show chipped in blanket coverage. Universal Pictures, which is part of the NBCUniversal media conglomerate, secured more than 400 brand partnerships for the film, resulting in “Wicked” dolls from Mattel, “Wicked” drinks at Starbucks, “Wicked” LEGO sets, and “Wicked” cardigans at Target, just to name four. Erivo and Grande gave so many interviews that they seemed, at times, to be nearing a breaking point.
The marketing onslaught is not over: The movie will have a “significant” presence Thursday at Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade on NBC, Universal said. “Wicked: Part Two” is scheduled for release next year, so get comfy with “Wicked” everything. Together, the two movies will easily cost more than $500 million to make and market.
Is this now what it takes to fill theaters? Movies, especially ones like “Wicked,” a mega-spectacle with mega-reviews based on a mega-musical, used to be able to commandeer the culture by themselves.
“Sadly, filmgoing has fallen further and further down the leisure-time priority list, and the best hope studios have is to manufacture a cultural event,” Stephen Galloway, the dean of Chapman University’s film school, said in an email.
He added of brand partnerships: “There’s a kind of irony here. To show the world you’re unique and different, you turn to businesses that promise customers their products are just the same.”
“Gladiator II,” which cost Paramount Pictures at least $350 million to make and market, was also given a hard sell, despite being a well-reviewed sequel to a blockbuster that won the prize for best picture at the 2001 Oscars and has remained popular on home video. To generate interest in “Gladiator II,” Paramount Pictures advertised heavily at sporting events; staged premieres in Australia, Japan, Ireland, France, Denmark, Britain and the United States; set up extensive partnerships with Ferrari and Pepsi; and simultaneously debuted a final 60-second trailer for the film on more than 4,000 television networks, digital platforms, local stations, Spanish-language outlets and radio stations.
“Wicked,” directed by Jon M. Chu, easily set a domestic box office record for the biggest opening of a live-action musical. The record is currently held by “Hairspray,” which arrived to $43 million in domestic ticket sales in 2007, after adjusting for inflation. (The Hollywood record books only go back to the 1970s.)
About 72% of ticket buyers for “Wicked” were female, according to PostTrak, an exit polling service, meaning that Universal’s attempt to convince men that a glittery, two-hour-and-40-minute musical was worth their time was not entirely successful. Deadline, an entertainment trade news site, estimated Thursday that “Wicked” was on track to take in between $130 million and $150 million in tickets in North America over the weekend.
Some 60% of “Gladiator II” ticket buyers were male, according to PostTrak. Paramount was thrilled with the demographic breakdown, noting that roughly half of ticket buyers were younger than 35, a sign that the sequel had reached a new generation while maintaining the legacy audience.
To some degree, “Wicked” helped fuel “Gladiator II” and vice versa, with their simultaneous release in the United States and Canada nicknamed “Glicked,” and movie fans — captivated by their wild incongruity — taking in double features and dressing in elaborate costumes. Box office analysts said the effect was minimal, however, at least compared with “Barbenheimer” last year, when hundreds of thousands of moviegoers paid to see “Barbie” and “Oppenheimer” in back-to-back screenings.
Both “Wicked” and “Gladiator II” amounted to cinematic comfort food — escapist, over-the-top stories that allowed Americans to leave behind a bruising presidential campaign and the continuing impact of inflation. People reach for nostalgia in times of stress, and movies that remind audiences of the past have been succeeding. Examples include “Wonka,” “Bad Boys: Ride or Die,” “Beetlejuice Beetlejuice,” “Twisters” and now “Wicked,” with its roots in “The Wizard of Oz,” and “Gladiator II,” with its sandals and swords.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Marketing; Ticket sales; Motion pictures; Remakes & sequels

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing

Location: United States--US; Canada; North America

Identifier / keyword: Scott, Ridley; Great Britain; Canada; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Records And Achievements; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Ireland; Gladiator Ii (Movie); Erivo, Cynthia; Theater; Japan; Nbcuniversal; Box Office S ales; Barnes, Brooks; Movies; Arts; United States; Entertainment; Gross, David A; Elections; Amusement And Theme Parks; Pepsico Inc; Nbc Sports; Universal Pictures; Chu, Jon M (1979 ); Finances; Mattel Inc; Chapman University; Denmark; Advertising And Marketing; Wicked (Play); Starbucks Corporation; Target Corporation; Polls And Public Opinion; Collectors And Collections; Pop And Rock Music; Ratings (Parental Guidance); Parades; Television; France; Australia; National Broadcasting Co; North America; Grande, Ariana; Spanish Language; Paramount Pictures

Title: ‘Wicked’ and ‘Gladiator II’ Jump-Start the Box Office, but at a Cost

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 24, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132457018

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wicked-gladiator-ii-jump-start-box-office-at-cost/docview/3132457018/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Amid the Exploding Carrots, Wackiness Abounds: [Review]

Author: Goldberg, Harold

Publication info: Goldberg, Harold. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/amid-exploding-carrots-wackiness-abounds/docview/3129879515/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Everyone's searching for something in Lego Horizon Adventures, where a science fiction franchise gets an entertaining brick makeover.
More often than not, the long-running children's series of Lego video games has focused on instantly recognizable characters: Batman, Harry Potter, Luke Skywalker.
The star of Sony's science fiction Horizon game franchise does not have such an expansive fan base. Yet the single-minded, redheaded Aloy is a wise choice for one of these lighthearted branded games, which exude so many happy, humorous vibes.
In this Lego world, Aloy's battle is against formerly peaceful animal-robots like the Sawtooth, a riff on pouncing saber-toothed tigers. They shoot swirling circles of fire. The Buried Shadow, the darkest, scariest creature in the Horizon series, is a cute but devilish balloon blob here, something well-suited for the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. You can hide from most of the machines in patches of tall grass, which Aloy calls "so itchy."
Aloy also needs to discover her own origins, often via a holographic character named Elisabet. The eager warrior's base of operations is called Mother's Heart, inhabited by nature lovers who are hunter-gatherers. As you progress, the almost-unpopulated town grows as you build customizable structures, totems and environments. Fifteen hours in and you'll find it teeming with clucking chickens and plastic minifigures who fish, eat, converse, dance and generally enjoy life. Just look at their animated drawn-on faces.
The stripped-down plot eschews the game franchise's serious, sometimes perplexing epic tale that features Aloy as kind of a religious savior. Here, the objectives are simpler, clearer -- and unapologetically goofy.
Other heroes from Horizon Zero Dawn make appearances as playable protagonists in a postapocalyptic world where there's no "social media or cat videos." The reinvention of the clumsy Varl, an ardent warrior, includes a passion for comic book collecting. He puts on gloves before touching a rare graphic novel.
The crumbs in this game's trail are shiny Lego studs, which also can be used to buy outfits and upgrade Mother's Heart. Sometimes, you find treasure chests full of them.
In the store, you can also add items from Ninjago, another Lego-branded game, and modern buildings. This mash-up doesn't dovetail with the carefully created Horizon milieu where Sony's lush, lurid environments are so meticulously reinvented through Lego blocks and pieces. No one is yearning to see a bright white police station in a land where lumber is the primary building material.
Each robotic machine is introduced in a comical but terrorizing cut scene, its name boldly and brightly emblazoned onscreen. The level design is generally repetitive. Walk over arched bridges and attractive waterfalls. Stock up on studs. Open a vendor's treasure chest to discover a power-up, like fiery boots Aloy can wear to jump over an enemy and burn them. Fight a number of machines in a circular environment reminiscent of a corral. Receive a gold brick reward and begin the next chapter.
In previous Lego games, a single player could switch between two heroes. Here, I could only explore and fight as one at a time, with Aloy the choice for most of my trek through blocky mountains and humid jungle lands. There were other frustrations like the inability to select power-ups. One of Aloy's lines -- "the wilds reward the curious" -- went from a mildly sage observation to an irritating maxim.
Lego Horizon Adventures, however, is generally very pleasant and entertaining. When I changed my character to Teersa, an elder who has "survived 13 grandchildren," I was able to toss exploding carrots or land sharks. The mustachioed Erend, with his eternal love for doughnuts, wielded a giant hammer that recalled Thor's Mjolnir. With a flame upgrade, Erend was more powerful than Aloy against the mechanized beasts.
The wackiness never stops. Dropping a hot dog cart damages enemies considerably more than the tossable bombs found scattered along the battle arena. While the gameplay is similar from area to area, the fighting stages become bigger and more complex as you proceed. A small, inviting pond may freeze you briefly. Sharp briar patches will sting you, eating away at your health.
For adults, who can join in the play by adding an extra controller, the treats include some nostalgic pop culture riffs. Seeing a level titled "Desperately Seeking Sawtooths" evoked a smile. As a fun romp for all ages, Lego Horizon Adventures will probably be one of the season's most requested holiday games.
Lego Horizon Adventures was reviewed on a PlayStation 5. It will be released on Thursday and will also be available on the PC and Nintendo Switch.
Photograph Aloy, left, is the star of Lego Horizon Adventures, a science-fiction game from Sony. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT) This article appeared in print on page C4.

Subject: Science fiction & fantasy; Computer & video games

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/13/arts/lego-horizon-adventures-review.html

Title: Amid the Exploding Carrots, Wackiness Abounds:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 19, 2024

column: Video Game Review

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Product Review

ProQuest document ID: 3129879515

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/amid-exploding-carrots-wackiness-abounds/docview/3129879515/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Mystery 'Blobs' Along Canada's Shores Are Synthetic Rubber, Chemist Says: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Yuhas, Alan

Publication info: Yuhas, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mystery-blobs-along-canadas-shores-are-synthetic/docview/3128900844/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A researcher thinks he knows what has been coming ashore on miles of beaches. Canada's environmental agency says it is still looking into it.
A chemist in Canada says he has identified "with a high degree of confidence" the strange blobs that started washing up on Newfoundland's shores months ago, although the Canadian authorities said they were still looking into it.
Globs of the white sticky substance, which have a spongy interior and range in size from a coin to a dinner plate, have been found for miles along Placentia Bay since at least September. Canada's environmental agency began an investigation, but it has not released any conclusions.
In the meantime, researchers at Memorial University of Newfoundland, including the chemist, Chris Kozak, obtained samples and started their own inquiries.
Dr. Kozak said that one of the first things he noticed was that the blob had "a kind of petrochemical odor to it, kind of like if you walk down the turpentine aisle of your hardware store."
At first he thought it might be polyurethane, given Newfoundland's fishing industry and the material's use in insulating boats. But polyurethane is less dense than water, and when it was tested, the blob sank.
A chemical analysis found that the substance contained carbon, hydrogen and oxygen but not nitrogen or sulfur, strongly suggesting it did not have a natural source. The absence of silicon, he said, ruled out silicone latex or caulking.
Finally, a mass spectrometry test, breaking up chemical chains into easier-to-study fragments, gave Dr. Kozak enough evidence to come forward, first to his local CBC radio station, with an identification.
"I'm quite confident that the sample that I handled was PVA butylene rubber," he said in a phone interview, describing a mix of synthetic rubber and polyvinyl acetate, known as PVA. That polymer, he said, is "the active ingredient in white glue -- the kind of white glue you have at home is a very dilute, kid-friendly version of this stuff."
The mixture, he said, "suggests some sort of industrial adhesive or some sort of material that could be used in a variety of industrial sectors."
The Canadian agency whose scientists are investigating the substance, Environment and Climate Change Canada, said in a statement that it "acknowledges the work done in parallel" by Memorial University researchers.
But the agency said that it "does not share hypotheses on the identity or origins of a substance undergoing testing, nor is it in a position to validate or substantiate the theories or findings of others." Early tests, it has said, indicated that the blobs might be plant based.
Christopher Reddy, a marine chemist who was not involved in the investigation, said Dr. Kozak's approach was "sound, and his conclusions are reasonable." He called the findings "an invaluable clue" toward solving the question of where the blobs came from.
The prevalence of the substance and the mystery surrounding its origins have alarmed beachgoers.
"Honestly it is still a bit worrisome because, finding out that this is not a natural organic 'thing' and it is more than likely man-made, you have to wonder how dangerous this is to our sea life," said Philip Grace, a beachcomber who found some of the blobs in September. "More investigating definitely has to be done on what exactly it is, where has it come from, why is it in our waters to begin with and especially, how much more is out there."
A synthetic rubber and PVA mixture would in theory be safe to handle, Dr. Kozak said, but as plastic pollution it should be cleaned up. If the material has been tainted by a toxic pollutant like crude oil, however, it should be handled with caution, he said.
The greater threat may be toward marine life, he said, especially if more of the material sank to the ocean floor.
"It could be perceived by marine life as food, looking like squid, octopus, jellyfish," Dr. Kozak said.
The origin of the substance, and how it wound up in the ocean, remains a mystery. The bay has a long history as a center for both fishing and industry, and is home to a shipyard and oil facilities. But the substance may also have crossed vast distances before washing ashore.
"With ocean currents the way they are, this stuff could have originated in a completely different place," Dr. Kozak said.
Oceanography, shipping and industrial data, weather events, satellite images, and research on synthetic rubber and the environment could all help determine the origin.
"Solving this case requires an ensemble cast of science and scientists," said Dr. Reddy, of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts.
And whatever the blobs turn out to be, he said, the incident offers a reminder that ocean pollutants are not limited to recognizable objects like plastic bottles, balloons, novelty phones or Legos. "They can be softer, with no definitive features, and even confused with biological materials," he said.
Dr. Kozak said that while he planned to share his data with other scientists, his focus remained on his main research and university work. The blob investigation, he said, was "really a side quest."
Photograph The blobs, found to the south of Newfoundland, are still being studied by Environment and Climate Change Canada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCGRATH THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A4.

Subject: Investigations; Chemists; Climate change; Artificial rubber

Location: Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/14/world/canada/blobs-canada-newfoundland.html

Title: Mystery 'Blobs' Along Canada's Shores Are Synthetic Rubber, Chemist Says:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 16, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3128900844

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mystery-blobs-along-canadas-shores-are-synthetic/docview/3128900844/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Small Details Add Up to a Giant Cruise Ship: [Travel Desk]

Author: Ceylan Yeğinsu

Publication info: Ceylan Yeğinsu. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-details-add-up-giant-cruise-ship/docview/3128900840/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a Finnish shipyard, the 250,800-ton sister of Icon of the Seas, the world's largest cruise ship, is in the final stages of construction. We got an inside look.
The valves were opened and more than a thousand workers gathered at the Meyer Turku shipyard in Finland to watch the "float out" of Royal Caribbean's Star of the Seas. The nine-hour process -- which involves flooding a special dock with more than 92 million gallons of water to push the 250,800-ton mega-ship onto a pier for the final stages of construction -- had begun.
Like its sister ship, Icon of the Seas -- the world's largest cruise ship -- the Star measures 1,196 feet long and towers 20 decks high. Capable of carrying nearly 8,000-passengers, the behemoth is scheduled to launch on Aug. 31, 2025, from Port Canaveral, Fla., and will have many of Icon of the Seas' features: eight "neighborhoods," six water slides, seven swimming pools and more than 40 dining, drinking and entertainment venues.
Icon of the Seas, which cost $ 2 billion to build and launched in Miami earlier this year, has been a hit among cruise-goers, despite criticism over its size and potential to harm the environment. While Royal Caribbean does not release booking figures, the company revealed that the ship has exceeded expectations both in terms of guest satisfaction and financial performance; 2025 bookings from July through October have outpaced 2024 levels for the same time period.
In response to the demand, the company has started construction on the third Icon Class ship, which will be completed in 2026, and plans to order a fourth for 2027, with options for a fifth and a sixth.
"The Icon Class ships we have on order are consistent with these growth plans," said Jason Liberty, president and chief executive of Royal Caribbean Group. "We are attracting more new customers into our vacation ecosystem, particularly younger demographics."
Business is up across all major cruise lines, and many of them, like Carnival, Norwegian and MSC, are expanding their fleets. Last year, 31.7 million passengers took cruises, an increase from 29.7 million in 2019. This year, that number is expected to reach 34.7 million, according to the Cruise Lines International Association, the industry's trade group. As of June 2024, there are 430 oceangoing cruise ships in operation and 76 ships on order through 2036, the group reported.
After sailing on Icon of the Seas, I became intrigued by how ships of this scale are built. Here's what I found when I visited Meyer Turku last month.
The shipbuilding process
From a distance, Star of the Seas looked like a giant Lego structure. Surrounding it were massive cranes slotting in the building blocks, including prefabricated cabins that appeared tiny dangling next to the huge hull.
The ship's keel, which acts as an underwater stabilizer, was laid last December in the first stage of the shipbuilding process, and now, nearly a year later, the ship is 71 percent complete.
The ship's interior was a construction site with more than 1,000 workers scrambling to complete the mechanical and electrical outfitting. The interior furnishings were also underway, with floor tiles being laid and attractions being built.
Hanging from the ceilings were endless loops of electric cables totaling 7,600 kilometers, or about 4,722 miles -- the equivalent of the European Divide bike trail, which runs across 10 countries from Norway to Portugal.
Once the outfitting process is complete, inspections will be carried out, engines and boilers will be ignited, and preparations will be made for sea trials before the ship is delivered next year.
The Pearl and Aquadome
One of the most striking architectural features of the Icon of the Seas is "The Pearl," a gigantic kinetic art installation that doubles as a structural centerpiece holding up the staterooms and one of the neighborhoods on the deck above. The installation's rounded shape allows for floor-to-ceiling windows that fill the Royal Promenade thoroughfare with natural light and bring passengers closer to the water.
The Royal Promenade on the Star of the Seas is currently a maze of scaffolding, wires and construction materials. But the round steel structure of "The Pearl" is in place, and behind a giant sheet of protective tarp, workers were carefully laying down the steps for the stairs, which, the company said, have been modified after some passengers on the Icon of the Seas tripped while looking up at the moving tiles that fill the interior of the installation.
Another eye-catching feature, the Aquadome, is a 367-ton structure made up of 673 glass panels. It is 82 feet tall and 164 feet wide. The glass and steel modules, assembled at the shipyard over the course of eight months, were lifted onto the ship using a 15-ton custom rig with cables longer than the height of the Empire State Building. It took six hours to attach the structure to the bow of the ship. When I visited in October, the shipbuilders inspected each glass panel and replaced ones where they found cracks.
Last January, I found the Aquadome on Icon of the Seas to be the most tranquil area on the ship, with its 220-degree ocean views and extensive lounging areas.
Challenges
One of the biggest challenges of building a ship of this scale is doing it outdoors when weather conditions are not always favorable, said Jon Sandham, the project production manager at Meyer Turku. The shipyard can reach -7.6 degrees Fahrenheit in the winter and can be hit by harsh frigid winds. To install the Aquadome, the shipyard had to ensure the wind speed was below 10 miles per hour.
Another challenge is coordinating the many contractors -- usually 10 to 15 -- needed to complete each section of the ship.
"It's a very technical and complex process, like the water park," which, Mr. Sandham said, involved multiple contractors. "But it's amazing how seamless some parts of it can be and how it all comes together in the end."
Environment
Royal Caribbean says its Icon Class ships are setting a new standard for sustainability by using energy-efficient technology designed to minimize their carbon footprints.
These include a waste management system that converts onboard waste into energy that can be used to power the water park; an advanced purification system that treats wastewater onboard; and technology that would allow the ship to run on shore power electricity in ports.
The Icon Class also runs on liquefied natural gas, or L.N.G., a fossil fuel that the cruise industry says is a clean alternative to heavy fuel oil because it cuts carbon dioxide emissions. However, environmental groups are concerned by how quickly cruise operators are adopting the fuel, arguing that the methane emitted from L.N.G. is more potent and can trap more heat in the atmosphere over time than carbon dioxide.
Royal Caribbean says L.N.G. was the most viable alternative fuel available at scale when the ship was designed seven years ago, and future Icon Class ships will all have L.N.G.-powered engines.
"We continue to grow and advance our portfolio of energy sources, and future-proof our ship designs so we can adapt as alternative fuel sources become viable and scalable," the company said in a statement.
Environmental groups have welcomed some of the energy-efficient features on the Icon Class ships, but they argue that building such large megaships undermines the industry's long-term sustainability goals.
The Meyer Turku shipyard has its own sustainability program called NEcOleap, which focuses on energy efficiency, sourcing responsible materials and optimizing ships' hull and steel structures to reduce fuel consumption, among other things.
Waiting in the wings: A third ship
Dwarfed behind the giant Star of the Seas hull in the dry dock is the keel -- essentially a vessel's backbone -- of the third Icon Class ship that has not yet been named.
While the shipyard's focus is on finishing Star, construction on the third ship is underway and scheduled to be finished in 2026.

Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2024 .
Photograph Top and above, Royal Caribbean's Star of the Seas at the Meyer Turku shipyard in Finland. The Icon Class megaship, which will set sail next year with a passenger capacity of nearly 8,000, includes six water slides, upper left, and will use about 4,722 miles of cables, upper right, for the ship's electrical rigging. Like Royal Caribbean's Icon of the Seas, the Star will run on liquefied natural gas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VESA LAITINEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ROYAL CARIBBEAN INTERNATIONAL) This article appeared in print on page C9.

Subject: Amusement parks; Construction; Energy efficiency; Ships; Environmental impact; Shipbuilding; Energy consumption; Carbon; Liquefied natural gas; Cruise lines

Business indexing term: Subject: Shipbuilding Cruise lines

Location: Finland

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/08/travel/royal-caribbean-building-a-mega-ship.html

Title: Small Details Add Up to a Giant Cruise Ship:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.9

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 16, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3128900840

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-details-add-up-giant-cruise-ship/docview/3128900840/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Songwriter for Earth, Wind & Fire, and That's Just the Start: [Review]

Author: Wilkinson, Alissa

Publication info: Wilkinson, Alissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/songwriter-earth-wind-amp-fire-thats-just-start/docview/3128900809/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "The World According to Allee Willis" shines a light on a musical artist whose creative spirit wasn't limited to one genre or even to music.
"I'm the world's best-kept secret," Allee Willis says at the start of a new documentary about her. Willis, a songwriter and artist, is being hyperbolic, but only a little: Unless you're a music trivia hound, Willis's remarkable career may have escaped your notice.
I, for one, didn't know until I watched "The World According to Allee Willis" (directed by Alexis Manya Spraic and in theaters starting Friday) that the same woman was a co-writer of Earth, Wind & Fire's "September," the Pointer Sisters' "Neutron Dance" and the Rembrandts' "I'll Be There for You," better known as the "Friends" theme song. She wrote dozens more hits, too -- sometimes lyrics, sometimes music -- and occasionally produced them as well. She even contributed music and lyrics to the Broadway version of "The Color Purple."
It's unfair but axiomatic that the most influential people are often the ones who fly under the radar, and that's Willis, who died in 2019 at 72. Spraic's approach is two-pronged. There are interviews with Willis's many friends and collaborators, so many that I couldn't jot them all down, but here are just a few: Lily Tomlin, Pamela Adlon, Mark Mothersbaugh of Devo, the comedian Bruce Vilanch, the singer-songwriter Brenda Russell and Paul Reubens, a.k.a. Pee-wee Herman, one of Willis's closest friends.
Somewhat unexpectedly, the mogul Mark Cuban appears a lot in the film, speaking warmly and earnestly of Willis's expansive imagination. She spent much of the 1990s, in the still-nascent days of the internet, developing a collaborative social network and story-driven interactive platform called Willisville, and Cuban was her business partner.
A lot of this was captured on video by Willis, who turned on a camera as a girl in Detroit in the 1950s and filmed constantly throughout her life. That is the other prong of Spraic's film: There is a lot of Willis's footage, which fills in details of her life, the ups along with the downs.
"The World According to Allee Willis" presents its subject as an enigma, someone who wasn't fully known even to herself. Willis was gay, and her sexual orientation was a source of inner conflict, as friends and Willis's longtime partner, Prudence Fenton, explain. And as with many songwriters, fame didn't necessarily come with wealth and happiness. Willis's life was full of creative friction as well as joy, and the documentary fleshes that out.
It's tricky to tell a story like this, which doesn't present the kind of clear arc that a more straightforward rags-to-riches tale might. Like "Piece by Piece" -- the recent documentary about the producer and musician Pharrell Williams, told in Lego form -- the movie struggles a bit to find its narrative groove. At the start, the film suggests that we're going to discover some secret about Willis buried in the mountains of paper, art and video that she left behind.
But this is not really a documentary about revealing secrets -- and thank goodness for that. You don't need to leave behind revelations to have lived a life worth knowing about. Willis's archives were evidence of a mind and heart bursting with ideas, energy and talent, and the obstacles that the industry and the culture threw in her way.
Yet I think the real story of "The World According to Allee Willis" isn't just about Willis: It's about the community that she formed, the friendships and relationships she maintained, and the way that art, imagination and love can make a life.
Photograph Allee Willis in a scene from Alexis Manya Spraic's documentary about her. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BONNIE SCHIFFMAN/MAGNOLIA PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page C7.

Subject: Music; Songwriters; Motion pictures

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/15/movies/allee-willis-documentary-songwriter.html

Title: A Songwriter for Earth, Wind & Fire, and That's Just the Start:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 16, 2024

column: Documentary Lens

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 3128900809

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/songwriter-earth-wind-amp-fire-thats-just-start/docview/3128900809/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Cheap(ish) Things to Send in a Care Package: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Depinho, Gabriella

Publication info: Depinho, Gabriella. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-cheap-ish-things-send-care-package/docview/3126256071/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When someone you love is going through a tough stretch, it isn't always feasible to show up with homemade food and a hug. Sending a care package can be much easier to manage. Here are some cheap(ish) things to include in a care box that will brighten anyone's day. GABRIELLA DePINHO
Gift a build-your-own bouquet for two purposes. Sending cut flowers is always a lovely gesture. A Lego bouquet, though, makes for a dual-purpose present: It's a fun activity your gift recipient can play at their own pace, and it will brighten up the space without ever wilting.
Deliver soft slippers for padding around. In lieu of an in-person hug, send something cozy. Because your gift recipient likely already has plenty of throw blankets, you can opt for comfy, supportive slippers like the L.L.Bean Sweater Fleece Slipper Scuffs, available in men's or women's sizes.
Supply a colored pencil set for blissful doodling. Scientific evidence shows that engaging in creative arts such as coloring can reduce anxiety. Your gift recipient will likely be delighted to receive the 24-count set of Prismacolor Scholar Colored Pencils. Pair them with a coloring book for self-care, and your loved one has everything they need for a meditative coloring session.
Boost the mood with a scented candle. Offer the Target Project 62 Matte Ceramic Lavender + Eucalyptus Candle. It has a natural-smelling scent; the lavender and eucalyptus both come through clearly. The ceramic vessel can be reused as a planter.
Toss in instant noodles (that taste almost as good as homemade). You can't mail a hot meal, but sending some instant noodle packets may be the next best option. Our taste testers gave high marks to NongShim Shin Black Noodle Soup for its meaty broth and hot (but not overpowering) chili kick.
Don't forget a classic cuppa. Send your loved one a box of Fortnum & Mason Royal Blend Tea. It stands out because of its golden amber color and a smooth, almost smoky flavor. Consider packaging it with a mug or special honey.
Gabriella DePinho is an updates writer at Wirecutter, a product recommendation site owned by The New York Times Company. For more advice, visit nytimes.com/wirecutter.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY INSPIRATIONGP/ISTOCK) This article appeared in print on page A3.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/07/pageoneplus/09a3_help.html

Title: Here to Help; Cheap(ish) Things to Send in a Care Package:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 9, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3126256071

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-cheap-ish-things-send-care-package/docview/3126256071/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Betting on the Election And on the Economy: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Yaffe-Bellany, David; Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Yaffe-Bellany, David; Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/betting-on-election-economy/docview/3120731169/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Donald Trump, Elon Musk and CNN have cited election predictions from Polymarket, a betting site where crypto enthusiasts have wagered more than $ 100 million on who will win the presidency.
Donald J. Trump posted a colorful graphic on social media this week, suggesting that he was headed for victory in the presidential election.
The graphic showed that Mr. Trump had a 64 percent chance of defeating Vice President Kamala Harris next month -- a much rosier picture for him than the polls that indicate the election remains a tossup. Mr. Trump's post was liked more than 10,000 times, as his fans responded with emojis of raised fists and Americans flags.
The election odds cited by Mr. Trump came from a crypto-powered gambling website called Polymarket. Using digital currencies, gamblers on Polymarket have wagered more than $ 100 million on the outcome of the presidential race, turning the site into the internet betting phenomenon of the 2024 election.
Elon Musk has promoted Polymarket's odds on X, calling them "more accurate than polls, as actual money is on the line." CNN and other news media organizations have featured the projections in their election coverage. And as the market has swung heavily in Mr. Trump's favor, he has relentlessly publicized the site's numbers, seeking to create a sense of inevitability about the election's outcome.
"A gambling poll, as they call it," Mr. Trump said recently of Polymarket. "I don't know what the hell it means, but it means that we're doing pretty well."
But Mr. Trump's apparent lead may be an illusion. The odds on Polymarket began favoring him this month after just four accounts, with user names like Fredi9999 and PrincessCaro, bet more than $ 30 million on a Trump victory, according to an analysis of transaction records by Chaos Labs, a crypto data provider. Polymarket said on Thursday that all four accounts were controlled by one person, whom it described as a French national with a financial services background, without revealing the person's identity.
The election betting has placed enormous scrutiny on Polymarket, a start-up based in New York that allows people to wager crypto on everything from sports to Taylor Swift's romantic prospects. The legality of gambling on politics remains murky in the United States. Polymarket stopped offering its services to U.S.-based customers in 2022, after settling with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for operating without registration.
The bets that bolstered Mr. Trump's odds have raised alarms that Polymarket could be vulnerable to manipulation. The trader who placed the wagers might have been "willing to take the losses in order to change public perceptions," said Rajiv Sethi, an economics professor at Barnard College. "And possibly have an effect on things like donations and morale and volunteer support and turnout."
The frenzy over Polymarket's election odds has also prompted suspicions that gamblers may be circumventing the ban on U.S. users. A former employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a sensitive topic, said it was "an open secret" that U.S. customers could make bets by using virtual private networks, which obscure an internet user's true location.
But the attention has also fueled Polymarket's business and set it apart from other prediction websites that offer betting markets on politics. The start-up, which is backed by an investment firm of the conservative tech mogul Peter Thiel, is close to completing a new $ 50 million financing round that would value it at $ 300 million, a person with knowledge of the matter said. In July, the election prognostication expert Nate Silver joined the company as an adviser.
Polymarket has "become a really significant factor" in the election, Mr. Sethi said.
A spokesman for Polymarket said the company used "industry-leading compliance measures" to prevent customers in the United States from betting. He also said that the company had investigated the Trump bets and that it had contacted the French gambler who placed them. The person was acting on "personal views of the election" and not trying to manipulate the market, the spokesman said.
Polymarket was founded in 2020 by Shayne Coplan, a New York University dropout who sometimes wears a Lego figurine of Steve Jobs around his neck. A vigorous networker, Mr. Coplan, 26, is a fixture on the crypto conference circuit and has built extensive contacts. At the company's penthouse office in SoHo, he has told colleagues about his conversations with Adam Neumann, the WeWork founder, and the actor Orlando Bloom, two people familiar with the matter said.
In interviews on podcasts such as "Star Spangled Gamblers," Mr. Coplan has argued that Polymarket could someday become a reliable source of news, offering "market-based journalism." He often promotes the odds on his site as being more reliable than polls.
"It's a more useful form of gambling," said Nick Tomaino of the crypto firm 1confirmation, which has invested in Polymarket. "It's actually producing information that is useful to people."
Much of the site's popularity stems from the potential for large payouts. While a rival political betting site, PredictIt, caps bets at $ 850, Polymarket allows users to gamble an unlimited amount of money.
In 2021, Polymarket came under regulatory scrutiny. The start-up was not registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which has tried to root out political gambling in the United States. Polymarket agreed to pay a $ 1.4 million fine to the commission and instituted so-called geo-blocking measures to prevent people in the United States from gambling on its site.
The site attracted mainstream attention this summer after its users correctly anticipated that President Biden would drop out of the presidential race. Mr. Coplan attended the Republican National Convention, where he was photographed socializing with Donald Trump Jr. He also hosted an event for Polymarket at the Democratic National Convention, and he posed with Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, at a fund-raiser this week.
Recently, Mr. Coplan has become harder to reach. In September, he agreed to meet with The New York Times, before pulling out the week of the proposed meeting. The company spokesman said at the time that Polymarket faced "a very delicate environment" and that the online discourse around the firm was "red hot."
For much of the fall, Polymarket's odds suggested that Mr. Trump and Ms. Harris were locked in a tight race, mirroring the polls. Then the odds diverged substantially this month, after the four accounts placed large bets on the former president.
On Oct. 11, Mr. Trump posted a screenshot of Polymarket that showed he had a 55.5 percent chance of winning the election. On Monday, he posted a new screenshot showing that his chances had increased to 64 percent.
The surge of attention has made Polymarket vulnerable to bad actors, said Cristian Perez Ramirez, who worked at the company from 2021 to 2023. "People with enough motivation and enough capital can easily manipulate it," he said.
Polymarket's spokesman said the user who placed the election bets "has agreed not to open further accounts without notice."
And the company's investors rejected the concerns about manipulation, saying that it would take a lot of money to swing a market for a sustained period and that users would be motivated to place bets in the opposite direction if the odds were skewed.
"If you think the market has been manipulated, there is profit incentive to correct the price," said Joey Krug, an investor at Founders Fund, the firm established by Mr. Thiel that has backed Polymarket.
In the coming weeks, Polymarket is poised to close a $ 50 million funding round led by the venture capital firm Blockchain Capital, a person with knowledge of the matter said. The company is considering creating its own cryptocurrency, and investors in the new financing would have the option of receiving some of those tokens, two people with knowledge of the start-up said. (Some funding details were reported earlier by The Information, and the spokesman said the company had no "immediate plans" to create a coin.)
Polymarket does not generate revenue, but it has discussed charging its customers fees, one of the people said. The company is also exploring ways to begin operating legally in the United States after a smaller competitor, Kalshi, won a lawsuit against the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in September.
For now, Mr. Coplan appears to be reveling in his company's rising profile. This month, Mr. Musk, a vocal Trump supporter, posted a Polymarket chart on X. "Victory is not enough, it must be absolutely decisive victory," he wrote.
Mr. Coplan reposted Mr. Musk's message, with a note of wonder.
"Had to see it to believe it," he wrote.
Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Photograph Shayne Coplan, Polymarket's founder, has promoted the odds on his site as more reliable than polls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHUTTERSTOCK) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Futures trading; Virtual private networks; Presidential elections; Startups; Commodity futures; Venture capital; Online gambling; Digital currencies

Business indexing term: Subject: Futures trading Startups Commodity futures Venture capital Digital currencies

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Musk, Elon; Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: CNN; NAICS: 516210; Name: Commodity Futures Trading Commission; NAICS: 926140, 926150; Name: Polymarket Inc; NAICS: 518210, 713290

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/25/technology/polymarket-election-betting-crypto-trump.html

Title: Betting on the Election And on the Economy:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 26, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3120731169

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/betting-on-election-economy/docview/3120731169/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

L.G.B.T.Q. In Japan: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Lee, Chang W; Rich, Motoko; Ueno, Hisako

Publication info: Lee, Chang W; Rich, Motoko; Ueno, Hisako. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/l-g-b-t-q-japan/docview/3118584656/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As I Am: L.G.B.T.Q. in Japan
In Japan, same-sex unions remain outlawed, and children who don't conform to traditional gender norms are routinely bullied. Japanese who are gay, transgender or nonbinary must stake out their own distinctive paths.
In these interviews, L.G.B.T.Q. Japanese -- some of whom spoke despite fears of being ostracized -- talked about their daily rhythms and routines. While some are politically active, others prefer to let their personal lives speak for their desire to be accepted.
'I thought they wouldn't be able to understand even if I tried to tell them how much I loved my girlfriend.'
When Hitomi Sawabe, 72, was in high school in a conservative rural area of Japan, she was told that homosexuality was akin to measles -- something that could be cured.
Her affection for other women did not feel to her like an illness. Yet she was afraid to share with her family the true nature of her relationships.
In Japan at the time, public images of lesbians tended to show them in pornographic contexts. On a trip to the United States with her partner at the time, Ms. Sawabe discovered a community that "felt free of gender," and she was inspired to write about her own sexuality back in Japan.
She published essays, a survey of women's sexuality and a biography about a lesbian relationship between a well-known Japanese novelist and her lover. Ms. Sawabe herself had a 10-year relationship with a woman that collapsed over a conflict between Ms. Sawabe's intense devotion to her writing and her partner's desire to have a child. Her partner later decided to marry a man.
A decade of loneliness and depression followed. When Ms. Sawabe's former partner was diagnosed with cancer, she visited her ex-lover shortly before she died but felt they had left many emotions unresolved.
Last year, a butterfly landed on Ms. Sawabe's eyeglasses. It felt like a sign. "I feel like she forgave me," Ms. Sawabe said. "And since then I have visited her grave every month."
Ms. Sawabe still lives alone, but she has opened a performance space for lesbian artists and others to gather and share their stories. She cooks, swims and visits friends.
"I want my emotions to move in the happy direction," she said. "Recently I realized I can control that."
'We don't want to send the message to the younger generation that we're people who have to hide ourselves.'
One of Gen Suzuki's earliest childhood memories is being told that he was so much like a boy that "you must have left your penis in your mother's belly."
Mr. Suzuki, now 50, did not know anybody who was transgender or gay, and at school, he was bullied for being a girl who behaved like a boy. It wasn't until he was in his mid-20s, when he watched a popular television drama about a transgender boy, that he realized there might be others like him.
Still, he repressed this growing awareness and married a man. After a decade, they divorced. Mr. Suzuki had his breasts surgically removed, began hormone therapy and changed his name to reflect his male identity.
He started taking classes from a bamboo craft master. He met Ryoko Kunii, the woman he now calls his wife, when she interviewed him for a magazine about his transgender identity.
The couple could not officially marry because Mr. Suzuki's government-issued family registry listed him as female. Instead, they signed a partnership oath. Now Mr. Suzuki lives deep in the mountains of Shizuoka Prefecture making custom bamboo bags, while Ms. Kunii lives separately with her mother and grandmother, whom she cares for. She visits Mr. Suzuki once a week.
In 2021, Mr. Suzuki filed a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of a law that required transgender people to undergo sterilization in order to legally change their gender identity. Last year, the Shizuoka Family Court decided in his favor; a Supreme Court ruling also delivered a similar decision for a different plaintiff. While Mr. Suzuki has now legally changed his identity to male, he and Ms. Kunii haven't married yet because they feel conflicted about an institution still off-limits to same-sex couples in Japan.
"We want to celebrate and file our marriage registrations together with the same-sex couples," he said.
'I want people to understand that we are trying to live seriously.'
Anna Tomiyasu, the first known Japanese transgender wrestler to compete as a woman, wanted to be cool before she wanted to wrestle.
As a young child in the countryside in Miyagi Prefecture, northeast of Tokyo, she attended a professional women's match and was captivated by how the winner overcame a much larger competitor.
"I just wanted to be that kind of cool girl," said Ms. Tomiyasu, now 25. "But I realized that I was not even a girl then."
By her third year of high school in Yokohama, Japan's second-largest city, Ms. Tomiyasu had been diagnosed with "sexual identity disorder," a medical prerequisite for receiving gender-affirming care in Japan. She joined a women's pro wrestling group.
At age 20, she had genital surgery. Still, Ms. Tomiyasu, who uses the stage name Veny, cannot yet afford all the surgical procedures that Japan still requires for a legal gender change.
She has avoided any direct political activism on behalf of transgender identity. "If I said I am trans, that might cause a burden for the pro wrestling world," she said. "I have tried hard to make myself look like a woman so that people don't look down on me."
'I wanted a place where I could be myself, a comfortable place for me.'
Before Satoko Nagamura became a mother, she felt as if she had a hole in her heart, a sense of loneliness that she thought would never be relieved.
But after she and her female partner conceived a son through IVF, his joyful nature saved her. "There is no amount of love that I can't give to this child," she said.
Ms. Nagamura, 41, who runs two restaurants in a gay-friendly neighborhood in Tokyo, is lobbying against a proposal by lawmakers in Japan's governing party to bar same-sex couples from obtaining fertility treatments.
In some ways, Ms. Nagamura regards her relationship with her partner, Mamiko Moda, as traditional. They held a wedding ceremony, in part to prove to their parents that they were more than "just friends."
Yet Ms. Nagamura said she did not feel particularly romantic toward her partner. Their relationship is grounded in the love they have discovered through shared parenting.
"People might see us as romantic partners from the outside," she said. "But in Japan, often when people have children they become family, not romantic partners."
'I always liked standing out since I was a small child.'
Growing up on the outskirts of Tokyo, Takahiro Masuzaki fashioned high-heeled shoes out of a pair of slippers and some Lego blocks. He stuffed balloons under his shirt to emulate breasts.
Perhaps it was a foregone conclusion that Mr. Masuzaki, 37, would end up performing as a member of a drag queen trio.
That group, Happo Fu-Bijin, has become something of a fixture in the L.G.B.T.Q-friendly Nichome section of Shinjuku, in central Tokyo. One of its members, Masaki Otake, 40, recently appeared as a commentator on Netflix's "The Boyfriend," Japan's first same-sex dating reality series.
Mr. Masuzaki, who uses the stage name Whitmi Chiaki, got his taste for torchy singing and glittery dressing in middle school, when he became a fan of singers like Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey, Madonna and Janet Jackson. Later, as a business consultant, he would dress up as a woman and perform at company end-of-year parties.
Mr. Otake, who goes by Durian Lollobrigida onstage, also performed while working a corporate office job during the day. Cross-dressing does not always mean changing his gender: He often applies exaggerated makeup and wears brightly colored clothing as a man.
"That's the biggest attraction of being a drag queen," he said. "I'd like to behave as antithetical to the world and society."
Atsunobu Muramoto, 52, who performs as Esmeralda as the third member of Happo Fu-Bijin, said he wanted the audience to "receive love" through the group's songs.
"It's a message about living rather than a political message," he said.
'People who directly put money and activism toward L.G.B.T.Q. activities are not viewed well in society.'
Yota Kuki always wondered why girls were supposed to like pink and boys were supposed to like blue. "I thought within myself that was such a weird thing," said Mx. Kuki, 36, an artist and street performer who identifies as nonbinary and uses "they" and them" pronouns.
Although Mx. Kuki still had a self-image as nonbinary, they had their breasts, ovaries and uterus surgically removed. Mx. Kuki hit a low point when a relationship with a man fell apart. Mx. Kuki thought of suicide.
But on a trip to Ishigaki, a southern Japanese island, Mx. Kuki wandered into a bar and met a photographer who began taking portraits. Mx. Kuki noticed a kewpie doll that had fallen off a shelf. That began an artistic preoccupation with painting the dolls and incorporating them into outdoor performances.
The friends Mx. Kuki made at the bar provided a self-esteem boost. Mx. Kuki began making art in earnest and selling the painted kewpie dolls. Earlier this year, Mx. Kuki and some friends threw a surprise party for the photographer back in Ishigaki.
Mx. Kuki views the kewpie art as a way of communicating with people who might not yet accept gender diversity.
"My feeling is that if you suddenly say what you think to someone who is not ready for it, they won't accept it," they said. "And that is why I want them to look at my art and I think I can communicate my identity more smoothly that way."
Kiuko Notoya and Hikari Hida contributed reporting.
Photograph Hitomi Sawabe at her former partner's grave in Saitama Prefecture, where they once lived together. Ms. Sawabe, right, has opened a performance space for lesbian artists and others to share their stories.; Durian Lollobrigida, left, and Esmeralda, of the drag queen trio Happo Fu-Bijin, backstage in Tokyo. Below, Whitmi Chiaki, at left, Esmeralda and Durian filming a music video.; Satoko Nagamura, in green, top, with her partner, Mamiko Moda and their son, Ittan, 4, in Tokyo. Above, taking a break after working at both her cafe and her bar. (A8); Yota Kuki, above, a nonbinary artist and street performer, taking a cigarette break after meeting with a fan of their art at a bookstore in Tokyo, below.; Gen Suzuki, above, making bamboo bags at his home in the mountains of Shizuoka Prefecture; and receiving a testosterone injection, right.; Anna Tomiyasu, the first known Japanese transgender wrestler to compete as a woman, performing as Veny in Yokohama, just south of Tokyo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE) (A9) This article appeared in print on page A8, A9.

Subject: Non-binary gender; Women; Couples; Name changes; Gender identity; Drag (Performance); Gays & lesbians; Transgender persons; Loneliness

Location: Japan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/09/world/asia/lgbtq-japan.html

Title: L.G.B.T.Q. In Japan:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 21, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Perio dicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3118584656

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/l-g-b-t-q-japan/docview/3118584656/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As I Am: LGBTQ in Japan

Author: Rich, Motoko; Ueno, Hisako

Publication info: Rich, Motoko; Ueno, Hisako. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-i-am-lgbtq-japan/docview/3118517526/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In Japan, same-sex unions remain outlawed, and children who don’t conform to traditional gender norms are routinely bullied. Japanese who are gay, transgender or nonbinary must stake out their own distinctive paths.
In these interviews, LGBTQ+ Japanese — some of whom spoke despite fears of being ostracized — talked about their daily rhythms and routines. While some are politically active, others prefer to let their personal lives speak for their desire to be accepted.
‘I thought they wouldn’t be able to understand even if I tried to tell them how much I loved my girlfriend.’
When Hitomi Sawabe, 72, was in high school in a conservative rural area of Japan, she was told that homosexuality was akin to measles — something that could be cured.
Her affection for other women did not feel to her like an illness. Yet she was afraid to share with her family the true nature of her relationships.
In Japan at the time, public images of lesbians tended to show them in pornographic contexts. On a trip to the United States with her partner at the time, Sawabe discovered a community that “felt free of gender,” and she was inspired to write about her own sexuality back in Japan.
She published essays, a survey of women’s sexuality and a biography about a lesbian relationship between a well-known Japanese novelist and her lover. Sawabe herself had a 10-year relationship with a woman that collapsed over a conflict between Sawabe’s intense devotion to her writing and her partner’s desire to have a child. Her partner later decided to marry a man.
A decade of loneliness and depression followed. When Sawabe’s former partner was diagnosed with cancer, she visited her ex-lover shortly before she died but felt they had left many emotions unresolved.
Last year, a butterfly landed on Sawabe’s eyeglasses. It felt like a sign. “I feel like she forgave me,” Sawabe said. “And since then I have visited her grave every month.”
Sawabe still lives alone, but she has opened a performance space for lesbian artists and others to gather and share their stories. She cooks, swims and visits friends.
“I want my emotions to move in the happy direction,” she said. “Recently I realized I can control that.”
‘We don’t want to send the message to the younger generation that we’re people who have to hide ourselves.’
One of Gen Suzuki’s earliest childhood memories is being told that he was so much like a boy that “you must have left your penis in your mother’s belly.”
Suzuki, now 50, did not know anybody who was transgender or gay, and at school, he was bullied for being a girl who behaved like a boy. It wasn’t until he was in his mid-20s, when he watched a popular television drama about a transgender boy, that he realized there might be others like him.
Still, he repressed this growing awareness and married a man. After a decade, they divorced. Suzuki had his breasts surgically removed, began hormone therapy and changed his name to reflect his male identity.
He started taking classes from a bamboo craft master. He met Ryoko Kunii, the woman he now calls his wife, when she interviewed him for a magazine about his transgender identity.
The couple could not officially marry because Suzuki’s government-issued family registry listed him as female. Instead, they signed a partnership oath. Now Suzuki lives deep in the mountains of Shizuoka prefecture, making custom bamboo bags, while Kunii lives separately with her mother and grandmother, whom she cares for. She visits Suzuki once a week.
In 2021, Suzuki filed a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of a law that required transgender people to undergo sterilization in order to legally change their gender identity. Last year, the Shizuoka Family Court decided in his favor; a Supreme Court ruling also delivered a similar decision for a different plaintiff. While Suzuki has now legally changed his identity to male, he and Kunii haven’t married yet because they feel conflicted about an institution still off-limits to same-sex couples in Japan.
“We want to celebrate and file our marriage registrations together with the same-sex couples,” he said.
‘I want people to understand that we are trying to live seriously.’
Anna Tomiyasu, the first known Japanese transgender wrestler to compete as a woman, wanted to be cool before she wanted to wrestle.
As a young child in the countryside in Miyagi Prefecture, northeast of Tokyo, she attended a professional women’s match and was captivated by how the winner overcame a much larger competitor.
“I just wanted to be that kind of cool girl,” said Tomiyasu, now 25. “But I realized that I was not even a girl then.”
By her third year of high school in Yokohama, Japan’s second-largest city, Tomiyasu had been diagnosed with “sexual identity disorder,” a medical prerequisite for receiving gender-affirming care in Japan. She joined a women’s pro wrestling group.
At age 20, she had genital surgery. Still, Tomiyasu, who uses the stage name Veny, cannot yet afford all the surgical procedures that Japan still requires for a legal gender change.
She has avoided any direct political activism on behalf of transgender identity. “If I said I am trans, that might cause a burden for the pro wrestling world,” she said. “I have tried hard to make myself look like a woman so that people don’t look down on me.”
‘I wanted a place where I could be myself, a comfortable place for me.’
Before Satoko Nagamura became a mother, she felt as if she had a hole in her heart, a sense of loneliness that she thought would never be relieved.
But after she and her female partner conceived a son through IVF, his joyful nature saved her. “There is no amount of love that I can’t give to this child,” she said.
Nagamura, 41, who runs two restaurants in a gay-friendly neighborhood in Tokyo, is lobbying against a proposal by lawmakers in Japan’s governing party to bar same-sex couples from obtaining fertility treatments.
In some ways, Nagamura regards her relationship with her partner, Mamiko Moda, as traditional. They held a wedding ceremony, in part to prove to their parents that they were more than “just friends.”
Yet Nagamura said she did not feel particularly romantic toward her partner. Their relationship is grounded in the love they have discovered through shared parenting.
“People might see us as romantic partners from the outside,” she said. “But in Japan, often when people have children they become family, not romantic partners.”
‘I always liked standing out since I was a small child.’
Growing up on the outskirts of Tokyo, Takahiro Masuzaki fashioned high-heeled shoes out of a pair of slippers and some Lego blocks. He stuffed balloons under his shirt to emulate breasts.
Perhaps it was a foregone conclusion that Masuzaki, 37, would end up performing as a member of a drag queen trio.
That group, Happo Fu-Bijin, has become something of a fixture in the LGBTQ+-friendly Nichome section of Shinjuku, in central Tokyo. One of its members, Masaki Otake, 40, recently appeared as a commentator on Netflix’s “The Boyfriend,” Japan’s first same-sex dating reality series.
Masuzaki, who uses the stage name Whitmi Chiaki, got his taste for torchy singing and glittery dressing in middle school, when he became a fan of singers like Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey, Madonna and Janet Jackson. Later, as a business consultant, he would dress up as a woman and perform at company end-of-year parties.
Otake, who goes by Durian Lollobrigida onstage, also performed while working a corporate office job during the day. Cross-dressing does not always mean changing his gender: He often applies exaggerated makeup and wears brightly colored clothing as a man.
“That’s the biggest attraction of being a drag queen,” he said. “I’d like to behave as antithetical to the world and society.”
Atsunobu Muramoto, 52, who performs as Esmeralda as the third member of Happo Fu-Bijin, said he wanted the audience to “receive love” through the group’s songs.
“It’s a message about living rather than a political message,” he said.
‘People who directly put money and activism toward LGBTQ activities are not viewed well in society.’
Yota Kuki always wondered why girls were supposed to like pink and boys were supposed to like blue. “I thought within myself that was such a weird thing,” said Kuki, 36, an artist and street performer who identifies as nonbinary and uses “they” and them” pronouns.
Although Kuki still had a self-image as nonbinary, they had their breasts, ovaries and uterus surgically removed. Kuki hit a low point when a relationship with a man fell apart. Kuki thought of suicide.
But on a trip to Ishigaki, a southern Japanese island, Kuki wandered into a bar and met a photographer who began taking portraits. Kuki noticed a kewpie doll that had fallen off a shelf. That began an artistic preoccupation with painting the dolls and incorporating them into outdoor performances.
The friends Kuki made at the bar provided a self-esteem boost. Kuki began making art in earnest and selling the painted kewpie dolls. This year, Kuki and some friends threw a surprise party for the photographer back in Ishigaki.
Kuki views the kewpie art as a way of communicating with people who might not yet accept gender diversity.
“My feeling is that if you suddenly say what you think to someone who is not ready for it, they won’t accept it,” they said. “And that is why I want them to look at my art and I think I can communicate my identity more smoothly that way.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Non-binary gender; Women; Couples; Name changes; Gender identity; Drag (Performance); Gays & lesbians; Transgender persons; Loneliness

Location: Japan

Identifier / keyword: United States; Flowers And Plants; Weddings And Engagements; Decisions And Verdicts; Japan; Bars And Nightclubs; Gender; Houston (Tex); Netflix Inc; Orderliness And Clutter; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Minorities; Parenting; Reality Television; Houston, Whitney; Youth; Jackson, Janet; Politics And Government; Photography; Bullies; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Lobbying And Lobbyists; Rich, Motoko; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Adultery; Families And Family Life; In Vitro Fertilization; Discrimination; Depression (Mental); Divorce, Separations And Annulments; Women And Girls; Same Sex Marriage, Civil Unions And Domestic Partnerships; Hida; World; Yokohama (Japan); Law And Legislation; Ovaries; Writing And Writers; Ishigaki Island (Japan); Deaths (Fatalities); Yokohama (New Milford, Conn, Restaurant); Drag (Performance); Transgender; Dating And Relationships; Therapy And Rehabilitation; Pop And Rock Music; Miyagi (Japan); Testosterone; Television; Sterilization (Reproductive); Children And Childhood; Carey, Mariah; Supreme Court (Us); Dolls; Web Original Programming; Shoes And Boots; Loneliness; Names, Organizational; Tokyo (Japan); Wrestling; Street Performers; Fertility Drugs; Names, Personal; Books And Literature

Title: As I Am: LGBTQ in Japan

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 20, 2024

Dateline: 2024-10-20T22:24:30Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3118517526

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-i-am-lgbtq-japan/docview/3118517526/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collectio n

____________________________________________________________

Shoppers Become Readers and Vice Versa: [Style Desk]

Author: Kahn, Mattie

Publication info: Kahn, Mattie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shoppers-become-readers-vice-versa/docview/3118406921/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jimmy Kimmel swears he has never once asked his team to land him a lick of press -- except for the time when he begged for the chance to be featured on the cover of Costco Connection.
The host and comedian pleaded with his publicist to get him a feature. "His first question was, 'Why?"' Mr. Kimmel said. "And I told him, 'Because I love Costco."'
Mr. Kimmel has been a Costco obsessive for so long that he remembers when it merged with Price Club, a fellow wholesaler, in 1993. He does not visit for the samples. He does not go for the deals.
"I go there for relaxation," he said, describing the deep happiness he experiences when he comes home with 20 pounds of ground beef. "I don't like to run out of things," he said.
Mr. Kimmel's publicist was baffled, as was top Costco brass. "They were very confused because typically, they'll have Famous Amos on the cover of the magazine," he said.
Mr. Kimmel has led his own late-night show since 2003. He has hosted the Oscars four times. GQ and Esquire have profiled him. Still, Mr. Kimmel claims, to date, no career highlight compares with his December 2009 Costco Connection cover.
"A lot of people want to be on the cover of Vogue or Rolling Stone," he said. "For me, it's The Costco Connection."
A Print Powerhouse
The media business might be in free fall, but in Issaquah, Wash., the merriest band of magazine makers in America drives to Costco headquarters and sets about producing a monthly print periodical that is delivered to more households across the United States than Better Homes & Gardens, The New Yorker, and The Atlantic combined.
And it's growing. Each month, 15.4 million copies of Costco Connection are mailed out to "executive" members, who pay double the yearly membership fee of $ 65 for the magazine and other perks. (Another 300,000 are distributed via Costco warehouses.) Its reach is so vast that Costco Connection is now the nation's third largest magazine by print circulation, behind AARP: The Magazine and The AARP Bulletin.
You, perhaps, had no idea. But Oprah did. Ms. Winfrey has no shortage of press opportunities, but she has made time for Costco Connection. So have Tom Hanks and Bruce Springsteen, recognizing there are few more enviable placements for a person with something to sell than the cover of a publication linked to a store where nearly one-third of U.S. consumers shop.
According to Costco, Connection readers have an average household income of $ 179,000, and 92.6 percent of them own a home -- no doubt stocked with Kirkland Signature paper towels, pounds of fish sticks and leaning towers of canned tuna. Over 94 percent of Connection readers report having confidence in the magazine's content.
Freed from the pressures of the algorithm, Costco Connection's benchmarks of success are a throwback to an earlier media age. There is the fleeting high of going viral, and then there is the flexed power of landing in the mailboxes of one in 20 Americans who could unsubscribe with a few simple clicks, but choose not to.
If Costco often produces a kind of religious fervor among its shoppers, the Connection is its Scripture -- a covenant and a recruiting tool that this month trumpeted the abiding allure of Lego bricks and ran a feature on Costco-themed Halloween costumes.
A Broad Purview
The Costco Connection debuted in magazine form in 1997. (It dropped the "The" during a 2018 redesign.) From the start, the magazine was created to do what it does now: Keep shoppers coming back. Costco operates on a membership model. Its success depends on robust renewal rates.
The fact that over 90 percent of members re-up from one year to the next has perhaps more to do with the discount prices than the service journalism, but Peter Gruening, Costco's senior vice president for membership, marketing and member service centers, believes the humble Connection contributes, too.
"It is informational -- entertaining," said Mr. Gruening, 57, who, after nearly three years of incessant wheedling, agreed to an interview for this article and granted rare access to Costco headquarters.
Mr. Gruening said that although he couldn't be sure that The Connection drove people to the "executive" tier of Costco membership (though he suspects it does), he is certain those who receive it are responsive to its content. Readers tell him as much everyday.
The Connection makes its staff members' contact information readily available both on its website and in print. Mr. Gruening's email address is available there, as is a direct phone number and email address for Stephanie E. Ponder, the magazine's editorial director.
When a new issue hits mailboxes, feedback pours in. After a recent issue included a single recipe as opposed to the usual collection of dishes and snacks, Mr. Gruening was inundated with irate comments from members demanding to know where the rest had gone. "One person said: 'And the recipe was how to make a hamburger. Who doesn't know how to make a hamburger?"'
"Message received," Mr. Gruening said he remembered thinking. "Our members like to see recipes."
Ms. Ponder, 55 -- who started at the magazine as a reporter and has also edited Costco cookbooks -- said that for as long as she has worked at Costco Connection, its audience has been "vocal." She has ended up on the phone with readers who had notes about an issue featuring Jessica Simpson (her fashion line sells at Costco) and others who wanted to discuss the fact that the fruitcake had been relocated at their local warehouse.
Ms. Ponder never lacks for topics. The magazine is charged with covering the same assortment of items that stores sell -- a selection that includes not only marinara sauce and pretzels, but also solid gold bars, prefabricated saunas, Bulgarian caviar, 72-pound wheels of cheese and coffins.
Simon Holland, a humorist who beams out the occasional Costco-related musing to his 762,000 Instagram followers, said he discovered Costco Connection after assuming it was a catalog and tossing the first 20 or so copies he received. But he eventually picked up an issue and came across a travel guide for Napa (Costco has a travel department that sells vacation packages) and a feature on sports (Costco sells dart boards and golf simulators). He liked it.
"I've been kind of into it ever since," Mr. Holland said. The magazine charms him for the same reason that Costco is his favorite store: Who knows what a person might find in there?
Mr. Holland, 46, subscribed to Sports Illustrated well into his 30s. He grew up on paper-and-ink magazines, he said, and the state of the current newsstand depresses him.
"You buy a magazine at a store, and it's, like, $ 37, and it's got four articles in there," he said. "I mean, it's not good." Besides Costco Connection, he receives only The New Yorker at home. "I like being able to read just a little snippet of something and then put it down and come back later," he continued.
It's All About the Shoppers
Many articles in Costco Connection feature members of the club -- the better to enhance the sense of pride and belonging that Costco aims to foster. Paula Skaggs and David Liebenson appeared in one recent issue, after getting engaged at their local Chicago-area warehouse in November 2023. (Mr. Liebenson coordinated the proposal with the customer service team, thanking "Debbie in Membership" in particular for her help.)
After celebrating with Costco's signature food court combo of a hot dog and soda, Ms. Skaggs, a writer, shared the news and was told in no uncertain terms by several of her loved ones that she "had to get this in Costco Connection," Ms. Skaggs recalled. She emailed the magazine and heard back a few months later that the piece would run in the September issue.
"We were thrilled," Ms. Skaggs said, likening the glamour of the feature to an appearance in a glossier title. "It felt like our very own Devil Wears Prada."
News of the couple's nuptials reached Susan Korn, designer of the label Susan Alexandra. In a photo with the piece, Ms. Skaggs can be seen holding one of Ms. Korn's bags.
Ms. Korn wondered whether she should trumpet the placement, given that Costco trades in discounts and Ms. Korn is protective of the luster of her line. "You never want to associate your brand with being on sale," she explained. "But then I was like: 'Wait, this is incredible. Costco is probably the most beloved brand in the entire world."'
Ms. Korn posted a photo of the magazine on Instagram. Soon, she said she was fielding emails from relatives, friends and "people in the suburbs" who had received the issue at home. Most of them had never seemed interested in the more exclusive press Ms. Korn secured.
"The goal I have as a designer is to be far-reaching and to touch people outside of the New York bubble," she said. "Now knowing what I know, I'm like, 'Can we get ad space?"' (She cannot. Kathi Tipper-Holgersen, The Connection's publishing advertising manager, explained that advertisers must be Costco suppliers.)
"I think we have gotten more congratulations about being in Costco Connection than we have on the actual wedding," Ms. Skaggs said.
A Stable Job in Journalism
Over the summer, with the September issue long closed, Ms. Ponder held one of her regular production meetings on Zoom (to accommodate The Connection's British and Canadian teams). During the meeting, she tracked progress on half a dozen coming issues of the magazine and solicited updates on articles on topics including plantar fasciitis, candy jewelry, butternut squash recipes and Theraflu.
She would later pass approved text up through a chain of readers until it reached the desk of Ron M. Vachris, who was named Costco's third-ever chief executive in January. Mr. Vachris is now responsible for almost 900 warehouses worldwide and the over 300,000 people who work across them. Still, he would make time for plantar fasciitis: There isn't a word in Costco Connection that he does not sign off on.
In the meantime, Ms. Ponder invited Chris Rusnak, a graphic designer, to share wildlife photos he had taken the previous weekend and wished the team a good Uncommon Instrument Awareness Day, National Avocado Day and National Mutt Day.
That spirit of enthusiasm and optimism is something Steven Lait is still getting used to. A refugee from the newspaper trenches, Mr. Lait was a cartoonist at The Oakland Tribune, in California, for almost two decades before he relocated to Washington and was stunned to discover the existence of "an actual publishing department that's got funding," he said. He was hired as a graphic designer for The Connection in 2011, which means he is "just getting over being the new person," he said.
He means this. There is now one newer hire -- a single staff member who joined the team since Mr. Lait did. When people leave, it's usually to retire.
Mr. Lait is an exception for his experience outside of Costco. Several of his co-workers started where Mr. Vachris did, on the warehouse floor, as forklift operators and baggers. "There was so much tumultuousness about jobs in newspapers," Mr. Lait said. "Being here at a place like this -- it's stable. It's just so nice."
But even the sturdiest institutions must adapt with the times. The Connection is treasured, but the cost of producing it is rising. Paper is more expensive. Postage is not cheap.
"We have no plans to discontinue the magazine," Mr. Gruening said. "But we would like to expand digital and grow that circulation." He has at least converted Dorothy Strakele, 66, who works as the magazine's digital coordinator and who sees herself as an ambassador for the wonders of the internet, pushing her co-workers to provide compelling visual content to run with their stories.
"I'm like, 'Give me a video, I need a video,"' Ms. Strakele said. Mr. Gruening noted that The Connection has a more navigable website than it used to and puts much of its content online for free (although readership is modest compared with its overwhelming print circulation).
Digital ambitions aside, Connection originalists still savor it in its printed form. Mr. Kimmel lamented that ever since he was awarded a lifetime executive membership, his own subscription to Costco Connection seems to have lapsed. Might a reporter be able to put in a good word with the circulation desk? "I would like to be on the mailing list again," Mr. Kimmel said. He needed them to know: "One of your most enthusiastic customers would like to get his magazine."
Photograph Above, the cover of Costco Connection, a space coveted by many celebrities. Left, a staff meeting at the headquarters of the magazine, in Issaquah, Wash. Below right, a printout of a page in a recent issue. Below left, Costco has almost 900 warehouses worldwide, which also distribute copies of the magazine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; KERRY TASKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST11.

Subject: Recipes; Magazines

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: AARP; NAICS: 813311; Name: Costco Wholesale Corp; NAICS: 455211; Name: New Yorker Magazine Inc; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/19/style/costco-connection-magazine.html

Title: Shoppers Become Readers and Vice Versa:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 20, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3118406921

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shoppers-become-readers-vice-versa/docview/3118406921/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Letters to My Younger Self: [SpecialSections]

Author: Lee, Miya; Jones, Daniel; Haque, Fahima

Publication info: Lee, Miya; Jones, Daniel; Haque, Fahima. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters-my-younger-self/docview/3118406816/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In honor of Modern Love's 20th anniversary, we asked a dozen essayists to write a letter to the person they were when they published their essays.
We wanted to know: What would you say to that younger version of yourself? How has your life, and the way you think about your experience, changed since your story was featured in Modern Love? What have you learned, realized or perhaps reconsidered in the intervening years?
'The Name That Has Always Felt to You Like Home'
In 2011, Alex Marzano-Lesnevich, who uses "they/them" pronouns, wrote about adopting a python named Pretzel while wresting with their sexuality. When both Pretzel and the desire to date women become too large to deny, Alex gave the snake away and broke up with their boyfriend. Today, much has changed in Alex's life (though one thing has remained the same).
Dear Alex,
Biggest update first: You came out as trans.
I know that's terrifying to hear. It's your biggest fear. When you realized at 8 years old that you weren't actually a girl, you also decided that no one would ever know.
For so long, you thought that being brave meant having no fear and complete control over emotions. When you and your boyfriend Oren went to that pet store in 2011, you came home with Pretzel the python because you were afraid of her. You wanted to conquer your fears. You wanted to design your life so every fact about you, whether public or private, would be your choosing.
Back then, that definitely didn't include being trans.
As far as you were aware, you'd never met anyone who was trans. Coming out as gay was scary enough, and so was writing about it for The New York Times.
But something beautiful happened when the essay was published: Your secret was out. You heard from others in your life who were queer, too. The secret you'd been so afraid of became just another fact.
That pattern will continue. You'll write a book about other secrets from your childhood, which not only freed you from shame, but turned you into a writer and, eventually, a professor of writing. You'll learn that fear isn't so scary. Not because you can defeat or deny it, but because if you listen to what it's trying to tell you, it will help you find your most authentic life.
I write to you now as Alex, the name you were known by as a child. The name that has always felt to you like home.
One thing has stayed the same, though. You now have a dog. Not a snake.
Alex Marzano-Lesnevich is the author of "The Fact of a Body: A Murder and a Memoir" and the forthcoming "Both and Neither." They live in Vancouver, British Columbia.
'Protect Yourself From Peril'
Theo Pauline Nestor's essay from 2004 chronicled the sudden dissolution of her marriage, which she likened to a space shuttle exploding midair. It was the fourth Modern Love essay ever published. Here, she gives her younger self some advice.
Dear Theo,
When asked what advice she would give her younger self, the actress Carol Burnett replied that she wouldn't tell her a thing because all her choices brought her to exactly where she is now -- thriving and content in her 90s.
And when I think about what I would say to you (the person who wrote this essay 20 years ago), I too am tempted to say nothing. Not just because I wouldn't want to interrupt the flap of the butterfly's wing, but also because I'm not sure you would know what I meant if I were to whisper in your ear, "Protect yourself from peril."
"No, you don't get it," you would insist, gesturing to the debris of divorce all around you. "This is the peril."
If I told you that the call might be coming from inside the house, you wouldn't know what to do with that. You weren't ready.
Ten years before the revelation that led to my divorce, I took an assertiveness training class in which we role-played, practicing statements like "I want a refund" and "I need you to stop yelling." It occurred to me as I mouthed these words that even if I learned all the right phrases, it didn't mean I would say them. Even if I did say them, it didn't mean I would stand strong. And even if I stood strong, it didn't mean that I would avoid spiraling into a vortex of fear afterward.
No, I wouldn't interfere with the butterfly's flap because my marriage brought me the greatest joys of my life -- my daughters. But that also meant I had to experience more peril, more moments when I'd be unable to say the needed words.
Once, in a post-divorce relationship, I had a sort of out-of-body experience, hovering ghostlike on the ceiling above the scene in which I was being yelled at by my then boyfriend, thinking, Why am I here again?
Even though I asked myself that question, I still wasn't ready to hear the warning: Protect yourself from peril. Protect yourself like you are one of your babies. Yes, you would have to "hunt, gather and keep shelter warm," as you wrote 20 years ago, but know that you were also, slowly but surely, learning to give yourself what you weren't given, to stand up for you. To say, "I need you to stop" and back it up.
You are getting there. Keep going.
Theo Pauline Nestor is the author of two memoirs, "How to Sleep Alone in a King-Size Bed" and "Writing Is My Drink."
'Bro, Sam Married Us. Deadass.'
In his piece, which was a runner-up in Modern Love's 2011 college essay contest, Andrew Limbong wrote about his Indonesian parents' attitude toward premarital sex and how that affected his relationship with his then girlfriend -- who is now, as he writes in his letter, his wife.
Not gonna lie, I hope whatever device The New York Times is using to send this to you fails. I hope you don't read this. I hope you make the same mistakes, the same errors of cowardice, selfishness and idiocy. Why? Because it worked out. Bro, Sam married us. Deadass. You've been together this whole time.
Just the other day you two were talking about how you were going to "make it to Denny's." That rarefied status of coupledom where you're old, but still so in love and in tune that you can talk trash about other people there without even saying a word. The guy with the dumb shirt? Roasted. The couple on an awkward early date? Roasted, too, even if you're both a little jealous of being young and in love.
Also, you have a kid now. And you love her so much, too. The other day she farted and laughed, and you felt unfettered pride for the first time. Not the usual apprehensive pride you feel about your own accomplishments. No, what you feel is pure when she toots and giggles, like she's getting away with something. By the way, she's 1-and-a-half, not 14. But even if she was a teenager, you hope you'd still find it funny.
The questions you raise in the essay about sex and God and family -- I don't have any answers for you, dude. Mom actually likes Sam more than she likes you. You feel a little guilty thinking about going to church way more than you actually go to church. Sex is easier mentally, harder logistically. But instead of the comfort of answers, you've got Sam. And your daughter. You're happy. Let yourself feel it.
Andrew Limbong is a correspondent for NPR's Culture Desk and host of NPR's Book of the Day podcast. He lives in Baltimore.
'What We Lost Cannot Be Recovered'
In her 2010 essay, Amy Seek grappled with her decision to place her biological son up for an open adoption. Now, in a letter to her pregnant, 23-year-old self, she issues a full-throated exhortation to make a different decision.
Dear Amy,
Open adoption is not the generous solution you want it to be, for you or your son.
You will spend 17 years visiting your son in his adoptive home, taking walks, playing Legos, waiting for him to grow up so that you can find out how he feels about his adoption. Every time you show up on his doorstep for a visit, you will steel yourself for the performance: You're doing great; college is awesome! What will it cost him to think you are happy with this arrangement? You'll practice subduing your feelings so you won't threaten his family bond, and in the process you'll lose your sense of self.
When he turns 17, he'll begin visiting you. Over long conversations, he'll describe the restlessness of having two centers of gravity. Adoption may double the love, but it splits you in two. He'll say things that scare you, that reveal the impact of your separation. When you tell him you regret his adoption, you'll fear it will somehow undo him, but he'll say the world has never made more sense.
He'll visit you often until, in his mid-20s, he'll find an apartment close by. You'll no longer feel dissociated in his presence, but integrating him will come with discomfort -- like the way you felt seeing chunks of onion he left on the pot he cleaned -- that some days makes you feel like a real mother, and some days irks you at a depth that feels profound. Is it grief about the many things you didn't get to teach him? That what was lost cannot be recovered? You'll hesitate to correct him; your motherhood gets stuck in your throat.
To my younger self, pregnant with a child you weren't prepared for: You can survive adoption and so can he. The couple you found will do as good a job as you could ever hope for; you'll soon learn it doesn't always work out this well. But open adoption is not just unsimple math; for all the beauty in its complexity, it is a betrayal of your simplest desire, and his, for which you will forever count the costs. You are already a mother, and there is only one thing to do. Trust yourself: Keep him. You can do this.
Amy Seek is a landscape architect in New York City. Her memoir about being a birth mother is called "God and Jetfire."
'Love, Before Will, Was Always in English'
Ross Showalter's essay from 2021 was about Will, the first man he dated who actually made the effort to communicate by learning sign language. In his letter, Ross explores the radical impact of that action.
Dear Ross,
Three years ago, the paramount emotion you felt about Will was fear. There was nothing new about a budding romance. The steady commitment to learning American Sign Language was new. At 27, you thought you knew what love was. Love was friendliness, compromise softened by shared humor and a lot of lust. Love, before Will, was always in English.
You knew that Will could be different and that scared you. He wanted to see you. He already anticipated how draining lip-reading was for you, and he wanted to do something about it. The work of communication could be shared, instead of entirely on you.
A shared burden of communication meant shared understanding in this relationship, which meant you could open up about yourself. You didn't have to keep your distance. You could allow someone to get close to you.
Now, three years later, you and Will are still together. Three years later, love fills you until there is no space left for those old anxieties. Will validates your frustrations, your joy, your uncertainties. Will pauses movies and TV shows to ask, "What is your relationship with your sister? Do you believe in God? Did you ever read 'The Hardy Boys' growing up?" It takes work to remain curious and open about each other.
It takes work not to turn away when you are being held accountable for selfishness, even when those moments come -- that Will correctly guesses -- from feeling lonely for a long time.
Over time, the emphasis on ASL has lessened. Over time, you two toggle between sign language and English, but you will always try to communicate. Over time, you will ask yourself how you can be less selfish, less temperamental, less impulsive. You can be a better person, simply because Will believes you are.
The fear came from not knowing if he might accept every messy, unsavory part of you. After three years, you know you have nothing to be afraid of.
Ross Showalter is a writer living in Seattle.
'You Thought You Had Failed'
Larry Smith's 2010 essay detailed his weekly trips to see his then fiancée Piper Kerman, who wrote the memoir "Orange Is the New Black: My Year in a Women's Prison," which was adapted into a television show. In his letter, he shares why divorce is not a sign of failure, but the means to write a new story.
Dear Larry,
A few years after you married Piper, she shared these six words in a collection of short love stories you edited: "Found fellow cliff-diver; best risk ever."
Your romance, marriage and decision to have a child were a series of leaps into the unknown. Each choice was a hard-won part of the story of Piper and Larry, one that would span nearly 30 years from the time you two met in a tiny breakfast spot in San Francisco. It would include one year of prison, 15 years of marriage, five different cities, seven seasons of Piper's television show, three answers to "Jeopardy!" questions and four therapists; before finally arriving at the most gut-wrenching, necessary, but loving decisions of all: to break up. I know, I know -- you didn't see any of that coming. Who does?
After that happened, you started hearing the same two words, over and over in hushed tones, from well-meaning friends and family: "I'm sorry." And you thought you had failed. Because no one thinks the vows they made in front of a justice of the peace, Elvis, or in our case, 108 people, will be broken. This was not how this story was supposed to end. You'll think about the moment when Piper walked down the aisle to your friend Tessa singing Tom Petty's "Wildflowers" and remember that beautiful song on that beautiful day. But then, one day, you will realize that on that same album Petty sings "It's Time to Move On." And it will be.
Slowly, surely, and finally quite clearly, you will tell yourself a different story: That the people you were when you met are very different from the people you will become. That 25 years was a success.
And once you crack open the space in your heart to allow a new story to come into focus, it will find you. And it will be wonderful.
Larry Smith lives in Oakland, Calif., and is the creator of "The Six-Word Memoir Project."
'I Remain a Hopeless Romantic'
Elizabeth Chang's essay from 2022 was about an ephemeral romance blossoming in her temporary home, the basement of a university library. As she slept, an admirer left a note in her shoe and, despite her initial hesitation, she was charmed. They've since parted ways, but, in her letter, she recalls meeting again and what that represented.
Dear Elizabeth,
This year, I returned as a graduate student to the library where you lived nearly 15 years ago. There's now a sign stating that visitors who stay past 1 a.m. will have their IDs checked. The sofa you slept on is still there, but your now-tender backbones cannot fathom spending the night.
I kept the note that he left you when you slept there. Four years after his last email, I asked him to meet up. As I waited in front of the restaurant, I fantasized about how it'd be a reuniting of kindred spirits. But when he arrived, he said my name like a question. Was this who had kept a hold over me all these years?
Dinner was silent with the shadow of past worlds we no longer shared. He was still in college because of his military service, while I was navigating my career. As we ate our overpriced vegetables, I asked him if he had gotten together with his soul mate.
His face was blank. "Who?" he said.
He hadn't ghosted me for some grand reason. Somewhere along the way, I had imagined a connection stronger than the one we shared only because I couldn't have him.
Recently, I ended an engagement with another man when we became unrecognizable to each other after seven years. Married friends talk about long-term relationships mellowing out. I just don't want to settle down. I want to live adventurously while my relationships maintain the intensity of a third date. But it feels like I have to give up holding someone close in order to discover new parts of myself.
As a child, I wanted to live with my friends. I wanted my friendships to have the same value as romantic relationships. Couldn't multiple people better meet my varied needs? Now I have friends to meditate with, to travel with, to go dancing with on a Thursday night. Some people know several sides of me, some people only know one deeply. In aggregate, they know all of me.
In my library locker, I now hoard Soylent instead of canned food. The dollar pizza joint is no longer a dollar. But people still laugh and splash one another in the campus fountain, and you remain a hopeless romantic.
Elizabeth Chang is working on a novel exploring Asian Americana through magical realism and lives in New York City.
'Quit Hating Yourself for Failing to Repair Your Son'
In his 2009 essay, Joe Blair wrestles with his son's disabilities, ultimately deciding to honor his son's deep love of the ocean by moving to California. In his letter, Joe comes to embrace certain truths about himself and his son.
Dear Joe,
Fifteen years ago, when your son Michael was a little boy who fixated on the wave pattern his belt formed when he wiggled it at a certain frequency, when you cycled him through all those antipsychotics in a failed attempt to quiet his aggressive behavior, and before you decided it was best to put him through the agony of brain surgery in a failed attempt to stop the grand mal seizures -- when you believed that no matter what, you'd find a way to repair your son -- The New York Times published an essay you wrote about him.
Now I have the opportunity to send you a communication. I don't want to waste it by dispensing advice, but since I know you more intimately now than I did when you wrote that essay, I'll do it anyway.
I know that you believe it's important to have a dream. And you believe that your highest calling is to ride off, lance in hand, in a mad attempt to catch that dream and make it a reality. But there is another calling just as high, though far less dramatic -- to ride off, lance in hand, in a mad attempt to accept the unchangeable circumstances God has presented you with.
Quit hating yourself for failing to repair your son. Move in the direction of accepting and loving yourself.
Quit thinking of Michael as someone you need to fix. Move in the direction of accepting and loving him the way he is. Since it is the way he is.
Joe Blair is a writer and refrigeration mechanic who lives with his wife, Deborah, and his son, Michael, in Iowa.
'Is That How We Survived?'
In her 2006 essay, Asha Bandele wrote about falling in love with and marrying Rashid, who was incarcerated in the prison where she taught poetry. In her letter addressed to him, she chronicles 30 years of love, spanning the birth of their daughter, a divorce, a deportation -- and finally, peace.
Dear Rashid, my ex-husband,
It's 1998. We're three years married, seven together. We're not parents yet. You're in prison. But our love is insistent.
Like you, I survived prison with an avatar; she dealt with the harm, the humiliations. Only you had true access to me, from my skin to my soul. And then, unexpectedly, we gained the most impenetrable of shields: the fierceness of a parent's love. Our daughter was born in April of 2000. Every choice we made was to achieve one single outcome: her wellness, joy and freedom.
Three months later, you were ordered deported. You fought the court for the family life we'd always imagined. I fought for only the life I held in my arms.
I can't detail the years between 2000 and 2008, even as we lived them, no longer as husband and wife, but still inexorably bound. I should have known your brilliant mind and your persistence would convince the court to hear an appeal. We all came to testify: me, faith leaders, cops and officials. Two months later, the judge revoked the order! But the government challenged the ruling, and then you were gone.
I sank into depression and drank too much. Your life was threatened once you'd arrived in a Caribbean country you hadn't lived in since you were a boy. You looked like everyone else but you were not embraced. There was resentment about men like you, "deportees."
But maybe because life is a series of valleys and peaks, solace came. I stopped misusing alcohol as quickly as I'd started. You settled into a supportive community abroad and built a small business. I returned to writing seriously, even publishing a New York Times best seller. And our girl? She graduated from Columbia University with honors in 2022. She's studying law at New York University, where she's a Dean's Merit Scholar and on Law Review.
How do we end our calls with "I love you" and still really mean it? I met you when I was 20-nothing, and I hadn't learned all the ways the world can break you. By 40, I learned it would let you bleed out alone. At 50-something I wonder, was I wrong, Rashid, thinking love was a weapon? Was it possible that love was actually the single strategy and solution? Is that how we survived? It is why we remained?
Asha Bandele is an award-winning author and journalist. She lives, works and parents in Brooklyn.
'You Still Have a Home in Fernando's Heart'
In her 2020 essay, Julissa Arce described how the fear she felt as an undocumented immigrant caused her to lie to every man she dated. But then she met Fernando and everything changed. In her letter, she shares how her bond with Fernando has only grown stronger.
Dear Julissa,
During a book signing in Texas, a giddy woman said to me, "So you divorced the man that gave you papers and then you married someone else? You are awesome!"
My troubled romantic past had felt isolating, not awesome. The subsequent healing journey that led me to meet and open up to my now husband was painful. But how to explain to a stranger that because I grew up scared and undocumented; lying to my love interests had been a matter of survival. Romance and vulnerability had been completely sucked out of my heart, leaving my life like a flattened vacuum-sealed bag, impervious to outside air.
I have been a U.S. citizen for 10 years. I am now a mother to a child that anchors me even more to California, the land of my ancestors before the Mexican American War. But if I really want to let people into my life, I still have to explain so much. In that way, nothing much has changed since you, my younger self, shared your story with Modern Love in 2020.
But I am glad that our sweet husband, Fernando, who accepted you after you told him the truth about your first marriage and past, still understands you. One night a few months ago, after the temperature in our house had cooled after an argument, I asked him, "Do you think I am crazy?"
We seemed to be having a lot of disagreements since our daughter was born.
"No. I think you've had a hard life," he said gently.
The kindness in his response reminded me of the night he stayed on the phone with me for over three hours while I drove from Fresno to Los Angeles. I'd had a threatened miscarriage while I was on a work trip. He reassured me that no matter what happened, we would survive it together. We chose the name of our daughter that night.
Four years later, love, thankfully, is still not all up to me. I don't have to hide or be ashamed of my past or my present struggles. You still have a home in Fernando's heart.
Julissa Natzely Arce Raya is a writer and the author, most recently, of the book "You Sound Like a White Girl." She lives in Los Angeles.
'Badass, Bipartisan Love'
Renee Folzenlogen's essay from 2005 chronicled her arranged marriage by the Rev. Sun Myung Moon of the Unification Church and her subsequent decision to get divorced. She asked herself whether she was brainwashed or whether everyone who marries is brainwashed to some degree. In this letter, she's written about falling in love again and life's winding path.
My Dearest Darling Renee (always address your younger self with affectionate salutations),
Today I am harvesting a massive golden sunflower from the community garden. Its bowed head is brimming with hundreds of seeds, overlooked by the goldfinch, quiet with promise. Nineteen years later, I want to say to you: You're doing great, just slow down. Ask Dad to divulge the secrets of his mother's Shanghai cooking, especially the 100-year-old dumpling recipe. Write it down, please.
Take the trip to Kansas with Mom; say thank you and hold her hand more often. Listen to your children (your 10-year-old was right: buy the Apple stock). Your kids keep getting wiser and more interesting.
Me? I'm doing well, thank you. Tim, whose love was a revelation, is still your partner, 22 years later. Together you'll face floods, fights, cancer, a pandemic and a failed insurrection.
I know that sounds bad. Here's the really bad part: saying goodbye to our parents and our sister, all within the span of seven months. As if they booked a trip without you and left you standing at the station, empty-handed. I wish I could spare you, but this is life, kiddo. You'll have the sweet relief of not being able to stop the tears. You'll write, paint and go to therapy. You'll find your way to your neighbors, to the garden. There will be sunflowers in your future.
Remember when you thought the most radical thing about Mom and Dad was their mixed race, interfaith marriage? You got that one wrong. It was the six decades of Dolores and Wei Lim's badass, bipartisan love, as precious in 2024 as an antique jewel, a real American modern love story. Remember that legacy, and keep your heart open.
Renee Folzenlogen is a New Jersey-based writer, artist and art therapist, working with families affected by mental illness, domestic violence and grief.
'I Wasn't the Right Person to Write This Essay'
In her 2021 essay, Haili Blassingame identifies as solo polyamorous after a breakup prompted her to question the way society values monogamy. Here, she recognizes the difficulty of one person writing about an entire community.
Dear Haili,
You wrote this essay from a place of desperation. Needing the extra cash, you searched for paid writing opportunities, and found Modern Love. You wrote it in a week and submitted it, expecting nothing.
First came the email from Daniel Jones. Then the support from mostly women and queer folks, followed by the vitriol from men online. Then the gutting message from a member of the polyamorous community, who said you had mischaracterized solo polyamory when you suggested that solo polyamorous people weren't seeking commitment, advancing painful assumptions that true commitment can only encompass monogamy.
It was a difficult message, but also an important and generous one. It's true: You had made a mistake.
At the time, you needed to name yourself. You swung from label to label, lost in a limited vocabulary. I say this not with regret, but with hindsight: You weren't the right person to write this essay. I don't mean you were the wrong person to write your story, but you were the wrong person to define solo polyamory as someone struggling to define herself. The label offered a comforting shape to a nebulous feeling, but you were too quick to try it on.
You might've gotten it right had you grasped the gravity of being read by thousands of strangers, but it was your first publication.
Though I also want to challenge the burden specific to marginalized groups to get your story right, this responsibility of representation. You aren't allowed the same grace to fumble because the stakes of getting it wrong operate on a different scale. It's a trap: You have 1,500 words. You have one chance. Go.
Because there aren't enough solo or Black poly stories receiving a platform, your voice was too loud. That email should've been its own essay with equal reach. A chorus will always result in a richer story.
The essay hangs framed in my bedroom. Recently, I looked at the illustration accompanying it -- a Black girl reaching up to touch a pair of hands. Three years later, that girl is still reaching.
Haili Blassingame is a producer for NPR's 1A in Washington. She's working on a novel about polyamory.
Photograph (F6; F8; F9) This article appeared in print on page F6, F8, F9.

Subject: Fear & phobias; Books; Divorce

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: National Public Radio--NPR; NAICS: 516110, 81 3910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/11/style/modern-love-letters-younger-self.html

Title: Letters to My Younger Self:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 20, 2024

column: Modern Love

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3118406816

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/letters-my-younger-self/docview/3118406816/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The News Quiz: [Metropolitan Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/news-quiz/docview/3118125424/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: 1. Georgia judges ruled against the State Election Board in cases over election rules. What is one rule the judges rejected?
An order opening more polling places in hurricane-damaged areas
An order to throw Jill Stein off the ballot
A rule making it harder for the police to investigate election fraud
A rule requiring election officials to hand-count ballots
A state law making it a crime to give water to voters in line
2. How much have Vice President Kamala Harris's campaign and Democrats raised since she entered the presidential race in July?
$ 1 million
$ 10 million
$ 100 million
$ 1 billion
$ 10 billion
3. Israel killed Hamas's top leader in Gaza this week, raising some hopes that the development might push Israel and Hamas to end the war. What was the leader's name?
Abu Yasser Shashnyeh
Khaled al-Batsh
Mahmoud Abbas
Mumtaz Dughmush
Yahya Sinwar
4. A SpaceX launch tower with mechanical arms successfully caught a rocket booster returning from space this week. What are the arms nicknamed?
Bionic Arms
Chopsticks
iCatch
Thumb War
Ultra Hand
5. A cheating scandal has hit the English sport of conkers, which involves whipping what object?
A chestnut
A goose
A hat
A lump of coal
A stump
6. A pair of pandas from China arrived at the Smithsonian's National Zoo in Washington this week, in a revival of panda diplomacy. About how long has the U.S. capital been without pandas?
45 years
10 years
One year
One month
One week
7. An Obama-era law was named after Lilly Ledbetter, who died last weekend at 86. What was the law about?
Equal pay
Health care
Same-sex marriage
Voting rights
Wall Street reform
8. At an unusual town-hall-style event in Pennsylvania on Monday, former President Donald J. Trump halted the question-and-answer session early and spent about a half-hour doing what?
Standing onstage while music played
Showing clips from the Jan. 6 riots
Writing posts for his Truth Social account
Playing audio from a recent podcast interview
Walking through the crowd to meet supporters
9. Canada and India each expelled diplomats from the other country this week. The rift between the two nations, which were once friendly, began last year, after Canada accused India of what?
Assassinating a Canadian Sikh separatist
Discriminating against Canadian citizens in India
Requiring Canadians to have visas to enter India
Revoking citizenship from Indian Canadians
Spying on Canadian members of Parliament
10. "Piece by Piece," a new documentary about the musician and producer Pharrell Williams, is notable for what aesthetic choice?
Segments are randomized at each viewing.
There's a karaoke segment.
It uses only found footage.
It's in 4-D.
It's animated with Legos.
The News Quiz is published on Fridays in the Morning newsletter. To sign up, visit nytimes.com/themorning. Solutions: 1. D; 2. D; 3. E; 4. B; 5. A; 6. C; 7. A; 8. A; 9. A; 10. E.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Scandals; Pandas

Location: Canada; India; Israel

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/17/pageoneplus/19a2_newsquiz.html

Title: The News Quiz:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 19, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3118125424

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/news-quiz/docview/3118125424/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Your Living Room Should Be for Living: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Mckeough, Tim

Publication info: Mckeough, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/your-living-room-should-be/docview/3115860813/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Designers show us how to turn what used to be the most formal area of a home into an inviting, multipurpose space.
The living room used to be considered a formal entertaining space -- a room filled with fine furniture that was largely off-limits until the company arrived. But we've come a long way.
"I grew up with my parents' living room furniture wrapped in plastic," said Clara Jung, the principal of Banner Day Interiors, a firm based in Berkeley, Calif. "It was definitely for formal occasions, and barely used."
But that never seemed quite right. "It's kind of perverse that you would have the prime real estate in the house be the most underutilized space," she said. In her design work, Ms. Jung aims to make the living room a much more casual, inviting space that serves a wide variety of functions.
Designing a living room to serve multiple functions means you get to spend more time in what is often one of the best areas of a home. It also can be a necessity in urban apartments where space is at a premium.
We asked Ms. Jung and other designers how they design do-it-all living rooms that still feel composed.
Consider Your Needs
To design a room you'll really enjoy, first consider how you want to use the space. Don't automatically think you need to fill the living room with family heirlooms.
When the New York architecture firm Dunham Robinson designs homes, "we get completely away from thinking about what the traditional elements of a living room are," said Rachel Robinson, a partner in the firm. Instead, "we get to know our clients' lifestyles and figure out what functional needs we have to accommodate."
For instance, when designing an apartment on the Upper West Side, "the living room needed to be a media center, a library and an entertaining space," Ms. Robinson said. For another Upper West Side client with a small loft, where the owner wanted to work from home, finding space for a desk was a priority, she said, even if it meant creating a more compact sitting area.
Depending on your interests and priorities, your living room could double as a playroom, a breakfast area, a cocktail bar, a workout space or even an art studio.
Assess Your Space
The size of your living room will affect how many functions it can serve, of course, but you might be surprised at just how much can be squeezed into even a small space.
When Erin Fearins, a partner at the architecture and interior design firm Studio SFW, conceived her family's apartment in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, she packed many functions into the 225-square-foot living room. Where it connects to the kitchen, she added wallpaper, a settee and corded sconces by a small table to create a dining space. She added custom cabinetry that frames a TV for movie nights, and hid a bar behind sliding panels. And she still had enough space to make a generous sitting area where the walls are lined with art.
"The living room had to be a do-everything-for-everyone space," she said, because it was the one big common area for her family of four.
Even larger homes with expansive living rooms can benefit from similar designs. "Almost all of our clients, whether they're in urban or suburban homes, want to occupy their living spaces," said Andrew Franz, an architect in New York, rather than having unused rooms that feel like furniture showrooms.
"It's almost a bigger challenge for people who have too much space," Mr. Franz said. "How do you make it feel more intimate? How do you make it usable?"
Create Zones
The answer to making the most of your living room, whether it's tiny, average or palatial, is to create different sections for different functions rather than having everything blend together.
"Try to create multiple little zones within the space," Franz said.
This can be done with doors, screens and walls, or more simply with the placement of furniture, rugs and lighting.
In one home, for instance, Mr. Franz installed a desk with a folding top in one corner of the living room, near a pair of large bi-fold doors that can close a dining area off from the main sitting area.
In another home, he placed a desk behind one wing of a sectional sofa in an open living room, added a bar where the room transitions to dining space, and tucked another small table behind a wall holding a TV. A small table at one end of a living room is a place "to leave out a project or leave out a mess," Mr. Franz said, without throwing the primary sitting area into disarray. "If the kids want to do Legos in the evening, or do a puzzle, you can leave it out and finish it the next night."
Embrace Awkward Spaces
When your living room has a single function, leftover alcoves and architectural quirks, like awkwardly placed columns, can seem like liabilities. But when you're trying to introduce multiple functions, these elements can be an advantage.
Ms. Fearins's living room has one wall that terminates at the center of a bay window. Few people would see the benefit in such an architectural oddity, but Ms. Fearins made the most of it by turning the nook into a window seat with a pendant lamp for reading.
When the Toronto-based designer Sam Sacks renovated a 1,200-square-foot cottage for a client, she was faced with a primary living space bisected by an open staircase. "This house is so small that the whole ground floor needed to be a hangout space," Ms. Sacks said.
She used the separation to create a media room for watching TV and listening to records on one side of the stairs, and a dining area wrapped by bookcases that also serves as a library and home office, on the other.
When Ms. Jung designed a living room with a leftover alcove, she closed the awkward space with bookcases, including one that functions as a secret door leading to a private listening den for a record collector. "It was like this annex that served no purpose," Ms. Jung said. "And who doesn't like the magic of a hidden bookcase door?"
Use Small-Scale Furniture
When trying to squeeze multiple functions into a small living room, one pitfall to avoid is buying large-scale furniture. Many contemporary sofas and armchairs have deep seats and wide arms that eat up a lot of space. But you don't need extra-large furniture to be comfortable.
"When the furniture is a little more petite, it makes the space feel larger," Mr. Franz said, and you can fit more pieces in a room without it feeling crowded.
This is where trying out sofas and chairs in stores and showrooms before purchasing can help, so you can be sure they're comfortable even if they have modest proportions. Consider marking out the footprints of potential pieces on your living room floor with painter's tape before you buy them, to make sure everything will fit.
Use Transformable Furniture
If all the furniture you want simply won't fit, there is still another option: use shape-shifting or transformable pieces.
When Dunham Robinson was designing a 350-square-foot Manhattan apartment that they wanted to feel spacious, they designed a custom wall-mounted table. When the owner is entertaining or watching TV, the table stows flat against the wall above a bench, resembling a framed artwork. When they need a dining table or a desk it folds down, and the bench pulls out to provide seating.
"It converts the room from living space to home office to dinner party," Ms. Robinson said.
While that table was custom, some furniture companies, such as Resource Furniture, make similar products including flip-down desks and coffee tables that rise and expand to be dining or game tables.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph Left, a loft space redesigned by the firm Dunham Robinson. Below, from left: In another home, the architect Andrew Franz installed a desk with a folding top, near doors to close off the dining area; in her living room, where a wall ends at a bay window, the designer Erin Fearins turned that space into a reading nook; and where the room connects to the kitchen, she added lively elements to designate a dining area.; Above: In one apartment, Mr. Franz added a bar; in another, Clara Jung of Banner Day Interiors designed a bookcase with a door to a den. Below, in a tiny home designed by Dunham Robinson, a table stows flat against the wall above a bench, resembling an artwork; when needed, it folds down. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL DUNHAM; ALBERT VECERKA-ESTO; LESLIE UNRUH; VIVIAN JOHNSON; NICHOLAS VENEZIA) This article appeared in print on page RE12.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Furniture; Designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Designers

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/08/realestate/living-room-design.html

Title: Your Living Room Should Be for Living:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.12

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 13, 2024

column: The Fix

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3115860813

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/your-living-room-should-be/docview/3115860813/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

There's No Monopoly On Modesty: [Op-Ed]

Author: Bruni, Frank

Publication info: Bruni, Frank. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-no-monopoly-on-modesty/docview/3115860769/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: There's a kind of holiday-season letter -- I'm sure you've received one -- that isn't so much an update from the family who sent it as an advertisement for the brood's glory.
The children are typically the stars of it. One of them just got into Princeton at 13. The other climbed Kilimanjaro. There's a photo of the two in just the right outfits against just the right backdrop at just the right time of day. They're beatific in the late afternoon light.
And the hagiography is sweet in its way. But humble? Hardly. That's why I'm puzzled by Sarah Huckabee Sanders's assertion last month that having children tempers a person's ego. And that's why I'm glad that Kamala Harris -- at whom that remark was directed -- finally put Sanders in her place this week.
Sanders made her comments when she was onstage in Flint, Mich., on Sept. 17 with a father of five whose ego has, by her moral arithmetic, been quintuply tempered. I speak, of course, of Donald Trump. Sanders once propped up his presidency for a salary, as the White House press secretary. Now, as the governor of Arkansas, she shills for him for free.
She was introducing him to a crowd, and after telling a cute story about one of her own three children, she said, "My kids keep me humble." Then -- because it's the logical segue? -- she added, "Unfortunately, Kamala Harris doesn't have anything keeping her humble." For good measure, Sanders mispronounced Harris's first name. Because that's what a humble person does: shows phonetic respect. You can take the woman out of the Trump administration, but you can't take the Trump administration out of the woman.
Later, when people less petty than Sanders expressed offense at her swipe, her spokesman said that the humility deficit she had in mind was Harris's "claiming she alone can solve America's problems." Whoa. Hold on a second. "I alone can fix it" -- that's indeed an infamous boast, uttered at the Republican National Convention in 2016 by one Donald J. Trump. Sanders and her minions need to hit the history books. They've got their egoists all mixed up.
Although Harris's allies and many other Democrats immediately called Sanders out -- and noted that Harris has two stepchildren to whom she is close -- Harris herself didn't respond until her media blitz this week. On an episode of the podcast "Call Her Daddy" that was released on Sunday, she suggested that Sanders avail herself of a calendar.
"This is not the 1950s anymore," Harris said, after noting that "family comes in many forms."
So does arrogance, and one form -- which was personified by Sanders when she oxymoronically preened about her modesty and is perfected by JD Vance pretty much anytime he opens his mouth -- is the attitude that yours is the only righteous way of living. Another form is the insistence that being fruitful and multiplying is some singular service to God and country.
My fruitlessness -- I'm a childless dog laddie -- is its own contribution. I pay (gladly) for public schools that I don't use. I participate (again, gladly) in health insurance plans that are more generous to colleagues with children than they are to me. Even at my most profligate, the one of me doesn't leave a carbon footprint as broad and deep as a gaggle of mini-mes would.
Those aren't complaints, just observations offered in the context of Sanders's apparent belief that those of us without progeny swagger through our days with egos unchecked by diapers, "Goodnight Moon," tonsillitis and soccer practice.
I'm, in fact, in awe of parents. I don't know where they find the time and energy that doing right by a child or children demands. I can barely remember and carve out the two minutes to tug the trash and the recycling to the curb every Friday morning. I don't know how parents calibrate the correct balance of sternness and lenience, of admonition and adoration. I don't know how they manage their sorrow when they see their offspring in pain.
And they are seasoned -- and in many cases humbled -- by all of that.
But there are humbling experiences aplenty outside the realm of parenting, and in my observation, many people's decisions to become parents aren't acts of self-effacement and generosity, at least not solely or principally.
Their reasons for having children may include the emotional rewards of those relationships, the hope that their children will someday watch after them, the glimmer of immortality achieved by passing on their genes, the fascination of watching their own flesh and blood navigate the world.
All of those motivations are recognizably and touchingly human.
Not one of them is humble.
For the Love of Sentences
Let's do politics first. In her Men Yell at Me newsletter, Lyz Lenz observed that in last week's debate, Vance "let the lies flow freely and smoothly, like he'd taken some sort of verbal Miralax for villains." And Lt. Gov. Mark Robinson of North Carolina, who reportedly enjoyed watching pornographic videos of transgender women, "isn't the only man to try to have it both ways -- to eroticize in the sheets the same people he oppresses in the streets." (Thanks to Rebecca Ditmore of Bainbridge Island, Wash., and Jeff Nathan of Chicago, among others, for spotlighting Lenz's words.)
In The Los Angeles Times, Robin Abcarian distinguished Trump from lesser liars: "While other presidential candidates have stretched the truth, only one has kidnapped it, bound and gagged it, put it in a barrel and tossed it into the East River." (Robert Meadow, Los Angeles, and Tim Vivian, Bakersfield, Calif., among others)
In his newsletter, Political Wire, Taegan Goddard surveyed that fabulist's unfabulous merch: "The constant stream of Trump infomercials -- hawking watches, silver coins, sneakers, bibles, coffee table books, NFTs -- is beginning to feel like a going-out-of-business sale." (Nancy Jones, Iowa City)
At Defector, David Roth recapped The Washington Post's interviews with Trump rallygoers who weren't staying for the whole show: "Some of the people The Post spoke to left because they were sick of 'the insults,' which feels a bit like storming out of a steakhouse dinner just before dessert because you don't eat meat." (Matt Keenan, Sharon, Mass.)
In The Washington Post, Kate Cohen theorized why there's less talk about Harris potentially shattering the highest glass ceiling than there was about Hillary Clinton's chances of that in 2016: "This time, we're quiet -- from superstition, maybe, or from knowing how hope can plant a land mine in your heart." (Ann Marie Joyce, Braintree, Mass.)
In The Times, Bret Stephens noted: "In an era that stresses sensitivity to every microaggression against nearly any minority, macroaggressions against Jews who happen to believe that Israel has a right to exist are not only permitted but demanded." (Peter Schmolka, Ottawa)
Also in The Times, Ligaya Mishan described the taming of chiles: "A cook tumbles them in a wok over a roaring burner, flames racing up to the ceiling like freed souls." (Marc Grobman, Fanwood, N.J.)
Kwame Anthony Appiah cautioned a reader about deciding to tell a woman that her romantic partner is cheating on her: "The fact that someone shouldn't be left in the dark doesn't mean that just anybody is entitled to turn on the lights." (Tom Knapp, Windsor, Conn., and Robert Koenig, Bartlett, Tenn.)
And Willy Staley went on a brave expedition: "If you take a journey deep within Netflix's furthest recesses -- burrow past Bingeworthy TV Dramas and 1980s Action Thrillers, take a left at Because You Watched the Lego Batman Movie, keep going past Fright Night -- you will eventually find your way to the platform's core, the forgotten layers of content fossilized by the pressure from the accreted layers above. Down here, if you search hard enough, you will eventually find your way to 'Richie Rich."' (Bob Howells, Culver City, Calif.)
In Literary Hub, Elias Altman remembered that Lewis Lapham -- a renowned magazine editor who died in July -- did more than lavish food and drink on the people he mentored: "The real heart of his generosity was the trick he pulled with time. He gave it away freely, as if he were Prince Gautama and it a worldly possession in need of renunciation." (Jim Gasperini, Berkeley, Calif.)
In an article in The Washington Post's series of unsung heroes in government, Geraldine Brooks profiled a law enforcement official with the Internal Revenue Service: "I am a novelist; I make things up for a living. In my trade, it would be considered malpractice to make up Jarod Koopman. You just do not give your protagonist a set of attributes that includes black belts, vintage trucks, sommelier certificates, tattooed biceps, a wholesome, all-American rural family and a deeply consequential yet uncelebrated and under-remunerated career in global cybercrime. But as Mark Twain said: 'Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities. Truth isn't."' (Deborah Skozek, Chetek, Wis.)
Also in The Post, Alex Falcone identified the online review sweet spot: "We all know that one- and five-star reviews are useless; those are just crackpots and bots. Three stars are for cowards, obviously; if you can't be bothered to have a courageous opinion, I can't be bothered to read it. And four stars are for liberal arts majors who had a three-star experience but grew up with grade inflation. But a two-star review, that's a thing of beauty. Somebody who goes through the trouble of logging into an app and typing full sentences on a keyboard to give a place exactly two stars has a story to tell." (Kathie Lynch Nutting, Mashpee, Mass.)
To nominate favorite bits of recent writing from The Times or other publications to be mentioned in "For the Love of Sentences," please email me here and include your name and place of residence.
What I'm Writing, Reading and Watching
The brutal economics of opening and running an ambitious restaurant have prompted a surprising number of talented chefs to express their creativity and ply their trades in other settings and other ways. I interviewed several of them for "Why So Many Chefs Don't Want Restaurants Anymore," published today in T Magazine.
Hurricane Helene's devastation of western North Carolina illustrated not only our vulnerability to natural disasters but also the ease and unscrupulousness with which merchants of grievance try to profit -- politically, financially -- from such tragedies. I explored that in this contribution to the Times Opinion blog, The Point.
Two recent articles by North Carolina journalists also touched on how much false information and how many conspiracy theories those merchants peddled. In The Assembly, Eric Johnson took stock of the damage -- and delusions -- in Chimney Rock, N.C. And in the PoliticsNC newsletter, Thomas Mills chronicled how Republicans had to implore fellow Republicans to stop lying. His sadly apt headline: "When Your Moral Compass, or IQ, Points South."
I've previously confessed my weakness -- and persistent hunt -- for original, ingenious horror movies, which led me to "Oddity" and "Strange Darling," both of which garnered terrific reviews and became available for streaming recently. "Oddity" fits snugly in the horror genre, while "Strange Darling" is more Tarantino-esque thriller, chatty and cheeky. Both are excellent when they're excellent -- "Oddity" with its creepy fillips, "Strange Darling" with its use of color and several gorgeously staged and shot scenes -- and letdowns in the end, more impressed with their labored cleverness than you will be.
Retire These Words!
While a sense of community is missing from many of our lives these days, the word "community" is ineluctable. It's as if the less we have of the former, the more we prattle about the latter.
There's talk of "the Black community," mention of "the Jewish community," reference to "the "L.G.B.T.Q.+ community," each of those phrases connoting a nonexistent unity, an imagined unanimity.
Some Black Americans want to defund police departments, but other Black Americans see more policing as the best answer to crime. An overwhelming majority of Black Americans vote Democratic, but there are signs that among younger Black voters, the Republican minority is growing. And Black Americans live in urban areas and rural ones, spread across the country. How are they a community?
Jewish Americans include students who joined the protests against the Israeli military's actions in Gaza and students who felt that protesters' language and behavior were antisemitic and threatening. How are all of them a community?
Or take my own supposed community, the L.G.B.T.Q.+ one. That plus sign and all those consonants reflect how many groups are being scrunched under one banner and how unwieldy the result is. As I wrote in a column in 2017, there are fissures galore in what is often cast as an alliance. They belie that designation.
In all of those cases and more -- "the disability community," "the immigrant community" -- "community" isn't merely inaccurate. As the newsletter reader Debbie Fox of Penn Valley, Pa., pointed out to me in a recent email, it's reductive.
It elevates one aspect of a person's identity over the rest and sorts us into corresponding categories. It makes assumptions and predictions about us based only on certain evidence. It erases our individuality, downgrades our agency. If people uncomfortable with that constitute a community, I belong to it.
"Retire These Words!" is an occasional feature about overused, oddly used, erroneously used or just plain annoying locutions. It appears every few months. Its previous installment was in this newsletter .
This article appeared in print on page SR5.

Subject: Families & family life; Presidential elections; Books; Political advertising

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala; Sanders, Sarah Huckabee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/10/opinion/sarah-huckabee-sanders-harris.html

Title: There's No Monopoly On Modesty:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 13, 2024

column: Frank Bruni

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3115860769

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-no-monopoly-on-modesty/docview/3115860769/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lego Leaps Into Documentaries, With Famous Musician as Its First Subject: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Sperling, Nicole

Publication info: Sperling, Nicole. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lego-leaps-into-documentaries-with-famous/docview/3115650845/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The toymaker has found success in fictional films. But with "Piece by Piece," about the life of Mr. Williams, it has gotten into a new genre.
In Lego, anything is possible -- within limits. Just ask the documentary filmmaker Morgan Neville.
Mr. Neville, an Oscar winner, spent the past five years turning the life story of Pharrell Williams into an animated documentary created entirely from Legos. And those Danish-designed building blocks allowed him to create things that would typically fall outside the genre's constraints.
He illustrated Mr. Williams's experience of synesthesia, which allows him to see color when he hears sounds, through translucent Lego pieces. They gave Mr. Neville the tools to turn the signature beats of the multi-hyphenate -- rapper, producer and fashion designer are among Mr. Williams's titles -- into colorful bricks that he could take out of storage and transform into a hit song. And it ushered in some fantastical scenes that show Mr. Williams lost in outer space or trapped inside a whirlpool.
"One thing I realized right away was that it wasn't just about translating a documentary into animation," said Mr. Neville, who on Friday will debut "Piece by Piece," a $ 16 million musical documentary via Focus Features. "It was about using what animation could do that documentary couldn't do, which is take you into the fantasy world. I found it so liberating, all the things you can communicate visually that you don't have to say."
The film is also a stretch for Lego, which defied odds back in 2014 when it released "The Lego Movie" to both commercial and critical acclaim. (That movie grossed $ 471 million worldwide, and its signature song, "Everything Is Awesome," landed an Oscar nomination.) The toy company made three more films in partnership with Warner Bros. before moving to Universal Pictures in 2020. That arrangement, while four years old, has yet to produce a movie. "Piece by Piece" is not part of that deal, though it was made by a subsidiary of Universal.
"We really always want to be doing something that is inspiring people, that's fitting with the brand and what we stand for, but that is also unexpected," Jill Wilfert, a senior vice president of global entertainment at the Lego Group, said in an interview. "We were looking to come back onto the big screen, and this felt like a nice way to do something that was definitely going to defy people's expectations."
Still, adjustments had to be made.
The filmmakers received a 130-page manual that detailed the dos and don'ts of the Lego brand. The primary message: A majority of the movie should be created with existing Lego parts. If a part didn't exist, it would have to be created, but always with the Lego quality in mind.
So when Lego pieces of the rapper Pusha T's braids were originally designed, the company requested that they be made thicker. (In the pieces' original form, closer to the rapper's own hair, Lego deemed that should a braid break off, it would be a choking hazard.)
Other times, the animators refashioned an existing part for a new purpose. The scientist Carl Sagan's turtleneck (yes, Mr. Sagan appears in the documentary) didn't exist as a Lego, but one was created by using a pastor's clerical collar and turning it around.
Another complication: tweaking the film to get a PG rating instead of PG-13, to make it more palatable for the traditional Lego audience.
Marijuana smoke wafting through the studio where Snoop Dogg's song "Drop It Like It's Hot" was being recorded? Too racy. (It was replaced with a mini-figure spraying smoke out of a canister labeled "PG Spray.") And the thong bikinis featured on a group of backup dancers during the group Wreckx-N-Effect's "Rump Shaker" music video? They had to be widened to full coverage bathing suit bottoms in order to comply with the PG standards. That change was a tough one to swallow, Mr. Neville said, considering "there are no butts on a mini-figure."
He recalled one particular internal meeting, titled "Thongs and Pimps," in which he and his producers went through a scene to remove as many pieces of underwear and nefarious characters as needed to comply with the coveted PG rating. (One pimp remains. Look closely.)
"I feel like Lego's constraints were pretty much the rated R constraints, which I had kind of bought into in the beginning," Mr. Neville said. "So I knew that I couldn't have a Lego joint in the film. Things like that I just knew I couldn't ever do."
He said those guardrails had led to more creativity. The PG Spray is one of his favorite jokes. A few poop emojis replace some strong language. And the pieces designed as hair for characters like Pusha-T and Jay-Z had never appeared in a Lego movie before.
Mr. Williams, who also served as an executive producer on the film, wrote five new songs and spent time ensuring that the characters in the movie -- his friends, family and collaborators -- were depicted as accurately as a block-bodied Lego mini-figure allows. He pointed to the hairstyles of Pusha T, Kendrick Lamar and Snoop Dogg as elements that he had been most concerned with.
"We spent time," Mr. Williams said, adding that his close-cropped haircut also took a lot of effort to get right. "In my culture, we call that a Caesar cut, and the line is so important, and that didn't exist in Lego before," he said. "But then we got them to do that on my figure. I'm very proud of that."
Mr. Williams, who currently serves as the men's creative director for Louis Vuitton, said he had additional plans to collaborate with Lego. And the toy company, which is staying mum on projects in development with Universal Pictures, said it viewed "Piece by Piece" as a jumping-off point for other kinds of personal stories.
Celebrities as varied as musicians and athletes are reaching out, looking for a Lego adaptation, Ms. Wilfert said.
"Everybody wants to have their story told in Lego bricks now," she said.
Photograph The animated characters of Pharrell Williams, left, and the Oscar-winning director Morgan Neville in "Piece by Piece," Mr. Neville's new film. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NBC UNIVERSAL) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Rap music; Documentary films; Motion picture directors & producers; Fashion designers; Hairstyles

People: Pusha T (Terrence Thornton); Snoop Dogg (Calvin Broadus)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/11/business/media/lego-pharrell-williams-piece-by-piece.html

Title: Lego Leaps Into Documentaries, With Famous Musician as Its First Subject:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 12, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3115650845

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lego-leaps-into-documentaries-with-famous/docview/3115650845/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Using Lots of Lego to Explore the Life of a Hitmaking Musician: [Review]

Author: Wilkinson, Alissa

Publication info: Wilkinson, Alissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/using-lots-lego-explore-life-hitmaking-musician/docview/3115254976/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The producer and musician gets the biographical documentary treatment -- with an unexpected twist.
Credit where it's due: In a sea of formulaic biographical documentaries about musicians, "Piece by Piece," about the life of the hitmaker and entrepreneur Pharrell Williams, stands out boldly. Not because it doesn't follow the usual narrative formula. It absolutely does: humble beginnings, rocket toward stardom, crash and then, inevitably, resurrection. That's all so standard to the genre that it's practically calcified.
No, "Piece by Piece" pops because everyone -- including Williams and the film's director, Morgan Neville -- is played by animated Legos.
This choice, which was Williams's idea, comes off less gimmicky than it sounds. Legos have proven to be remarkably versatile utility players in the past decade. They've performed as Ninjas and Batman and themselves ever since "The Lego Movie" (2014) opened and became both a staggering commercial hit and an instant classic. The movie was clever and inventive, but the choice of toy worked, too: Legos are recognizable, beloved and, most important, endlessly open to reinterpretation. There's no reason not to mingle your Lego Hogwarts set with your Lego Star Wars set in the shadow of your Lego Eiffel Tower alongside your little cousin's Duplo trucks, and that's the fun of them -- the potential for chaos and imagination.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
For "Piece by Piece," the Legos are taking on a new challenge: playing real people. Animated feature-length documentaries have become more common in recent years -- "Waltz With Bashir" (2008) and "Flee" (2021) are two significant examples -- but here the animation is aggressively nonrealistic, on purpose. The subjects, which include Gwen Stefani, Jay-Z, Justin Timberlake and Daft Punk, show up rendered as cylinder-headed, block-bodied minifigures, Lego parlance for the people-shaped pieces. Minifigure Williams and Minifigure Neville sit across from each other, chatting about the movie and Williams's life. The voices are real -- Neville interviewed the plethora of collaborators and artists that Williams has worked for and with -- but we only ever see their Lego versions, with some distinguishing facial hair or outfit.
The playfulness fits Williams's aesthetic, which ranges from producing beats and albums for that dizzying array of artists to recording his own megahit "Happy" to collaborating on lines of streetwear, fragrances, eyeglasses, sneakers and skin care. He's clearly bursting with ideas all the time, and that's the narrative of the film: This is a man who never stops dreaming of ways to remix the world. It's his playground, his sandbox. Legos fit right in.
The effect of the animation is oddly charming, and elevates the watchability of "Piece by Piece" more than you might expect. It's impossible not to giggle, for instance, when Minifigure Snoop Dogg -- whose work with Williams on "Drop It Like It's Hot" gave Snoop his first chart-topping hit -- appears in a cloud of weed smoke, or when a rapper's music video is reinterpreted with Legos.
Furthermore, the animated format lends some flexibility to how key moments can be shown -- a Jay-Z show at which Williams performed, for instance -- that feels less contrived than it might have otherwise. Characters can turn in the middle of a re-creation and address the audience directly; there would be no way to make that work in the live-action format. (Also, everyone is very cute.)
The story they tell is not, to be honest, all that interesting. Williams was born in 1973 and grew up in Virginia Beach (where he went to the same high school as the rapper and producer Timothy Mosley, a.k.a. Timbaland). Obsessed with music as a child, Williams created it with friends throughout his youth, eventually hitting it big as part of the production duo the Neptunes, which he formed with Chad Hugo. (Despite a falling-out with Williams, Hugo was interviewed for and appears in the film -- as a Lego, of course.)
"Piece by Piece" is largely a chronicle of all of the chart toppers that the Neptunes, and then Williams alone, had a hand in making for some of the biggest artists of the late 1990s and early 2000s. The most buoyant section of the film takes place in this time, with Williams and Hugo dashing between recording sessions. It's like a supercut of turn-of-the-century hits -- Nelly's "Hot in Herre," Stefani's "Hollaback Girl" and bunches more -- and the fact that everyone's a Lego keeps it feeling playful rather than overwhelming.
By the end, the film feels a bit crammed into the shape of a biopic. Williams did have some fallow years following the phenomenal success of "Happy," written for the soundtrack of "Despicable Me 2." (Yes, Lego Minions appear to him.) He attributes his floundering to losing sight of his faith, humility and sense of creative playfulness.
Yet he came back, eventually, and the film ends with his many creative ventures taking off. He also gained a renewed sense of his own role in the world, crystallized by the film when he co-produces and performs on Kendrick Lamar's "Alright," a song that has been used as an anthem at protests against police shootings since its release. All of this is interesting, but it happens quickly. The rhythm of the film emphasizes Williams's successes far more than his failures, and so the main takeaway from "Piece By Piece" is that Williams is one very talented Lego, er, man.
Which is, at this juncture in documentary history, pretty much the point of any authorized biographical documentary about a musician. These films are everywhere, often made with the involvement of either the musician (if they're alive) or their estate. That means, quite reasonably, that the narrative is controlled by the subject to some degree. Even a very open and honest subject will naturally exercise some selective memory and judgment in the crafting of the movie. Any "revelations" are heavily filtered and chosen to generate headlines that market the film. And it won't go to the screen without their approval.
That means most of these films are little more than brand-building exercises, ways for fans to feel more connected to the artists they love. This fact doesn't invalidate them entirely, and skilled filmmakers like Neville ("20 Feet From Stardom," "Won't You Be My Neighbor?") are able to work within those constraints. But there are constraints, and audiences would do well to remember them; you'll never get the whole story from an authorized biopic, if indeed the "whole story" is what fans are after.
The reason these docs proliferate, of course, is that we watch them, and artists like having them. The reason we watch a musician documentary isn't to learn secrets; it's to enjoy the artists we already love, or learn more about someone whose work interests us, or just revel in some fun footage. And "Piece By Piece" sidesteps feeling rote by doing something that seems, frankly, bizarre. That it works at all is a product of the quirky form fitting the subject well. It's chaotic, sure. But that's the fun of it.
Piece by Piece
Rated PG. Running time: 1 hour 33 minutes. In theaters.
Photograph Pharrell Williams, in Lego minifigure form, in the animated documentary "Piece by Piece." (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOCUS FEATURES) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Rap music; Animated films; Documentary films; Musicians & conductors; Motion picture directors & producers

People: Jay-Z (rapper)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/10/movies/piece-by-piece-review-pharrell-williams.html

Title: Using Lots of Lego to Explore the Life of a Hitmaking Musician:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 11, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 3115254976

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/using-lots-lego-explore-life-hitmaking-musician/docview/3115254976/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hurricane Cuts a Staggering Path of Destruction: [National Desk]

Author: Cochrane, Emily; Geiger, Abigail; Mazzei, Patricia; Nostrant, Rachel; Taft, Isabelle; Macur, Juliet

Publication info: Cochrane, Emily; Geiger, Abigail; Mazzei, Patricia; Nostrant, Rachel; Taft, Isabelle; et al. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hurricane-cuts-staggering-path-destruction/docview/3110586389/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: More than 40 people were reported dead in four states as the huge storm spawned flash floods and landslides on its way north after devastating parts of Florida's Gulf Coast.
Hurricane Helene forged a devastating path of floods and wind damage after slamming into Florida's Big Bend region on Thursday night, submerging much of the state's Gulf Coast before continuing its destructive march through Georgia and into the mountains of Appalachia. More than 40 people were reported dead in four states as the huge storm spawned flash floods and landslides on its way north.
In the densely populated Tampa Bay region of Florida, neighborhoods were underwater on Friday, the result of a powerful storm surge. In southern Georgia, search teams pulled trapped residents, some with injuries, out of damaged buildings. More than two million people in North Carolina were under flood warnings, and millions, including some as far north as Virginia, were without power.
The destruction stretched at least 800 miles north from where the storm came ashore in a sparsely populated area of Florida called the Big Bend, which sits in the crook of coastline where the Panhandle connects to the Florida peninsula.
Near the town of Newport, Tenn., concerns about a potential dam collapse triggered a flash flood warning for 20,000 people and led officials to order many in the 7,000-person community to evacuate. In mountainous western North Carolina, landslides threatened homes and blocked major roads. Emergency officials issued an evacuation warning for residents living below a large dam, the Lake Lure Dam, saying its failure was imminent.
Ryan Cole, the assistant director for emergency services in Buncombe County, which includes Asheville, called the storm "the most significant natural disaster that any of us have ever seen in Western North Carolina."
Among those who died in the storm, which made landfall just before midnight on Thursday as a Category 4 hurricane with winds of at least 130 m.p.h., were at least 17 people in South Carolina, 15 in Georgia and seven in Florida.
In Tampa, one person died on a highway because of a falling sign, Gov. Ron DeSantis said; several people had drowned in other parts of the state. The storm also set off deadly tornadoes: Two people died in a tornado in Wheeler County, Ga., emergency management officials there said.
The breadth of the area so strongly affected by Helene is hard to imagine: In Atlanta, a television meteorologist covering the hurricane rescued a woman live on the air as she screamed from inside her car in the rising floodwaters. More than 11 inches of rain has fallen over two days in Atlanta, breaking a record set in 1886.
In Tennessee, dozens of people were trapped Friday afternoon on the roof of a hospital in the small town of Erwin because of flooding.
In the Tampa Bay area, the amount of flooding caused by the storm came as a surprise to some, given that Helene had first hit land about 200 miles to the north. On Friday morning, Michael Morton, 47, and Chris Grant, 49, were sitting in a waterfront park in St. Pete Beach, on a barrier island just west of St. Petersburg, Fla., when the storm water rushed toward them.
Mr. Morton, a native of St. Pete Beach, and Mr. Grant, who has lived in the area for nearly 30 years, agreed: They had never seen anything like it.
"It wasn't like a gradual thing," Mr. Morton said. "It was like, here comes this solid wall of water, all at once."
Mr. Morton, who is homeless, had sheltered from the storm on the balcony of a second-floor condo by the beach. He said it had taken about 20 minutes for the storm surge to destroy the boardwalk. A number of restaurants, including one where Mr. Grant used to work, were simply "gone." The water had lifted cars and tossed Jet Skis all over the place. The air smelled like salt and mud.
The experience was even more disturbing in the region where Helene made landfall. Several waterfront towns there, along the Big Bend, were essentially razed by the third hurricane to hit that region in 13 months. Last August, Hurricane Idalia made landfall there as a Category 3 storm. And early last month, Debby smashed into the Big Bend as a Category 1.
Helene was not like the other storms, said Michael Bobbitt, a novelist and playwright who lives in Cedar Key, a small community set among tiny islands jutting into the Gulf of Mexico. About 75 of Cedar Key's 700 residents remained through the storm, city officials said, and Mr. Bobbitt was one of them. He described Helene as the most violent force he had ever experienced, with the devastation to match.
"It looks like a nuclear bomb went off," said Mr. Bobbitt, who has military and first aid experience and stayed behind to help. "I didn't even know how to conceive of something so powerful."
In tiny Dekle Beach, about 90 miles northwest of Cedar Key by car, Laurie Lilliott and Leslie High walked down the main street on Friday morning, clutching one another as they stepped over the remains of their homes.
"That's my house in the middle of the road," Ms. Lilliott cried out while stepping over wreckage. "My bed! I'm looking at my bed."
Ms. High wept.
The hurricane had ravaged Dekle Beach, where Ms. Lilliott's family has lived since the 1940s in one of a few dozen homes painted in varying shades of pastel. Helene scattered the remains of those homes along the waterfront. The surging waters had toppled them like dominoes.
Ms. Lilliott surveyed what was left, including some of her son's Legos and her daughter's mattress. Down the road, her husband Hugh asked if anyone recognized the wooden porch swing that was now tangled up in someone else's roof.
In Steinhatchee, a small fishing village along the coast of Florida's Big Bend, Sarah Merritt, an English teacher who moved to the area a few years ago, wiped away tears as she looked at the cottage where her mother had planned to retire, now split in half by the trunk of a toppled tree.
"It's overwhelming," she said. "That was going to be her home. But I guess not, now."
Another resident, Jimmy Hooten, grizzled and smoking a cigarette, held out his phone to capture the damage.
"I lost my Land Rover," he called out to a friend passing by.
"Damn," the man said. Mr. Hooten shrugged. He said he would leave as soon as his children were grown.
"I want out one day -- I'm tired," Mr. Hooten said. "They wipe us out, you gotta start over."
Perry, a city of about 7,000 some 50 miles southeast of Tallahassee, also took a direct hit from Helene. The eye made landfall just 10 miles away, on Thursday night.
Roofs were torn off and windows were blown in. The city was without power. But the storm appeared to have moved through quickly, sparing Perry from even worse.
One resident, Earl Swann, 79, was riding around Perry in his Chevy Silverado pickup with his black Lab, Mollie, checking on his eight residential and commercial properties.
The whipping winds from Helene did not cause any catastrophic damage, he said, but the cost of making repairs would add up, especially because he had already fixed properties damaged by Hurricane Idalia last year, and by Hurricane Debby in August.
"We hadn't had one in years," he said. What were the odds of getting three in 13 months, he wondered? "I could win the lottery," he said.
The trio of powerful, damaging hurricanes are sure to cause people to leave Cedar Key and other communities along the Big Bend, said Mr. Bobbitt, the novelist, as he walked through the wasteland of his town. It's the kind of somber and sobering walk so many Floridians are now taking. He described a disorienting amount of damage.
The homes on First Street?
"They're just missing," he said. "We don't know where they are."
And Big Deck Bar & Grill, the restaurant on Dock Street, on a road that curves perilously over the Gulf?
It too has vanished.
"Cedar Key as we know it is completely gone," Mr. Bobbitt said.
He added, "I expect there to be a mass exodus."
Abigail Geiger contributed reporting from Cedar Key, Fla.; Isabelle Taft from St. Pete Beach, Fla.; Aimee Ortiz and Annie Correal from New York; and Judson Jones from Perry, Fla.
Abigail Geiger contributed reporting from Cedar Key, Fla.; Isabelle Taft from St. Pete Beach, Fla.; Aimee Ortiz and Annie Correal from New York; and Judson Jones from Perry, Fla.
Photograph Homes on Friday in the Gulf Coast community of Dekle Beach, Fla., southeast of Tallahassee, that were leveled by Hurricane Helene. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL RATJE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Clockwise from top: Laurie Lilliott, left, comforted by her friend Christine Lamb after her home was destroyed in Dekle Beach, Fla.; in Atlanta, Travis Brown evacuated with his kittens; a buckled road in Steinhatchee, Fla.; and the wreckage in Perry, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL RATJE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AUDRA MELTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SCOTT MCINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ZACK WITTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) This article appeared in print on page A1, A18.

Subject: Dams; Tidal waves; Hurricanes; Landslides & mudslides; Floods; Evacuations & rescues; Roads & highways; Storm damage

Location: New York; United States--US; Georgia; Florida; North Carolina; Tampa Bay; Atlanta Georgia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/27/us/hurricane-helene-damage-florida-north-carolina.html

Title: Hurricane Cuts a Staggering Path of Destruction:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 28, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3110586389

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hurricane-cuts-staggering-path-destruction/docview/3110586389/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hurricane Helene Leaves Huge Swaths of Damage in Its Wake

Author: Cochrane, Emily; Geiger, Abigail; Mazzei, Patricia; Nostrant, Rachel; Taft, Isabelle; Macur, Juliet

Publication info: Cochrane, Emily; Geiger, Abigail; Mazzei, Patricia; Nostrant, Rachel; Taft, Isabelle; et al. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hurricane-helene-leaves-huge-swaths-damage-wake/docview/3110526978/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
STEINHATCHEE, Fla. — Hurricane Helene forged a devastating path of floods and wind damage after slamming into Florida’s Big Bend region Thursday night, submerging much of the state’s Gulf Coast before continuing its destructive march through Georgia and into the mountains of Appalachia. More than 40 people were reported dead in four states as the huge storm spawned flash floods and landslides on its way north.
In the densely populated Tampa Bay region of Florida, neighborhoods were underwater Friday, the result of a powerful storm surge. In southern Georgia, search teams pulled trapped residents, some with injuries, out of damaged buildings. More than 2 million people in North Carolina were under flood warnings, and millions, including some as far north as Virginia, were without power.
The destruction stretched at least 800 miles north from where the storm came ashore in a sparsely populated area of Florida called the Big Bend, which sits in the crook of coastline where the panhandle connects to the Florida Peninsula.
Near the town of Newport, Tennessee, concerns about a potential dam collapse triggered a flash flood warning for 20,000 people and led officials to order many in the 7,000-person community to evacuate. In mountainous western North Carolina, landslides threatened homes and blocked major roads. Emergency officials issued an evacuation warning for residents living below a large dam, the Lake Lure Dam, saying its failure was imminent.
Ryan Cole, assistant director for emergency services in Buncombe County, which includes Asheville, called the storm “the most significant natural disaster that any of us have ever seen in western North Carolina.”
Among those who died in the storm, which made landfall Thursday, just before midnight, as a Category 4 hurricane with winds of at least 130 mph, were at least 17 people in South Carolina, 15 in Georgia and seven in Florida.
In Tampa, one person died on a highway because of a falling sign, Gov. Ron DeSantis said; several people had drowned in other parts of the state. The storm also set off deadly tornadoes: Two people died in a tornado in Wheeler County, Georgia, emergency management officials there said.
The breadth of the area so strongly affected by Helene is hard to imagine: In Atlanta, a television meteorologist covering the hurricane rescued a woman live on the air as she screamed from inside her car in the rising floodwaters. More than 11 inches of rain has fallen over two days in Atlanta, breaking a record set in 1886.
In Tennessee, dozens of people were trapped Friday afternoon on the roof of a hospital in the small town of Erwin because of flooding.
In the Tampa Bay area, the amount of flooding caused by the storm came as a surprise to some, given that Helene had first hit land about 200 miles to the north. On Friday morning, Michael Morton, 47, and Chris Grant, 49, were sitting in a waterfront park in St. Pete Beach, on a barrier island just west of St. Petersburg when the stormwater rushed toward them.
Morton, a native of St. Pete Beach, and Grant, who has lived in the area for nearly 30 years, agreed: They had never seen anything like it.
“It wasn’t like a gradual thing,” Morton said. “It was like, here comes this solid wall of water, all at once.”
Morton, who is homeless, had sheltered from the storm on the balcony of a second-floor condo by the beach. He said it had taken about 20 minutes for the storm surge to destroy the boardwalk. A number of restaurants, including one where Grant used to work, were simply “gone.” The water had lifted cars and tossed motorized personal watercraft all over the place. The air smelled like salt and mud.
The experience was even more disturbing in the region where Helene made landfall. Several waterfront towns there, along the Big Bend, were essentially razed by the third hurricane to hit that region in 13 months. In August 2023, Hurricane Idalia made landfall there as a Category 3 storm. And early last month, Hurricane Debby smashed into the Big Bend as a Category 1.
Helene was not like the other storms, said Michael Bobbitt, a novelist and playwright who lives in Cedar Key, a small community set among tiny islands jutting into the Gulf of Mexico. About 75 of Cedar Key’s 700 residents remained through the storm, city officials said, and Bobbitt was one of them. He described Helene as the most violent force he had ever experienced, with the devastation to match.
“It looks like a nuclear bomb went off,” said Bobbitt, who has military and first aid experience and stayed behind to help. “I didn’t even know how to conceive of something so powerful.”
In tiny Dekle Beach, about 90 miles northwest of Cedar Key by car, Laurie Lilliott and Leslie High walked down the main street Friday morning, clutching each other as they stepped over the remains of their homes.
“That’s my house in the middle of the road,” Lilliott cried out while stepping over wreckage. “My bed! I’m looking at my bed.”
High wept.
The hurricane had ravaged Dekle Beach, where Lilliott’s family has lived since the 1940s in one of a few dozen homes painted in varying shades of pastel. Helene scattered the remains of those homes along the waterfront. The surging waters had toppled them like dominoes.
Lilliott surveyed what was left, including some of her son’s Legos and her daughter’s mattress. Down the road, her husband, Hugh, asked if anyone recognized the wooden porch swing that was now tangled in someone else’s roof.
In Steinhatchee, a small fishing village along the coast of Florida’s Big Bend, Sarah Merritt, an English teacher who moved to the area a few years ago, wiped away tears as she looked at the cottage where her mother had planned to retire, now split in half by the trunk of a toppled tree.
“It’s overwhelming,” she said. “That was going to be her home. But I guess not, now.”
Another resident, Jimmy Hooten, grizzled and smoking a cigarette, held out his phone to capture the damage.
“I lost my Land Rover,” he called out to a friend passing by.
“Damn,” the man said. Hooten shrugged. He said he would leave as soon as his children were grown.
“I want out one day — I’m tired,” Hooten said. “They wipe us out; you gotta start over.”
Perry, a city of about 7,000 about 50 miles southeast of Tallahassee, also took a direct hit from Helene. The eye made landfall just 10 miles away Thursday night.
Roofs were torn off, and windows were blown in. The city was without power. But the storm appeared to have moved through quickly, sparing Perry from even worse.
One resident, Earl Swann, 79, was riding around Perry in his Chevy Silverado pickup with his black Lab, Mollie, checking on his eight residential and commercial properties.
The whipping winds from Helene did not cause any catastrophic damage, he said, but the cost of making repairs would add up, especially because he had already fixed properties damaged by Idalia and Debby.
“We hadn’t had one in years,” he said. What, he wondered, were the odds of getting three in 13 months? “I could win the lottery,” he said.
The trio of powerful, damaging hurricanes are sure to cause people to leave Cedar Key and other communities along the Big Bend, Bobbitt said as he walked through the wasteland of his town. It’s the kind of somber and sobering walk that so many Floridians are now taking. He described a disorienting amount of damage.
The homes on First Street?
“They’re just missing,” he said. “We don’t know where they are.”
And Big Deck Bar & Grill, a restaurant on Dock Street, on a road that curves perilously over the Gulf?
It, too, has vanished.
“Cedar Key as we know it is completely gone,” Bobbitt said.
He added: “I expect there to be a mass exodus.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Dams; Tidal waves; Hurricanes; Landslides & mudslides; Floods; Stormwater management; Evacuations & rescues; Roads & highways; Storm damage

Location: New York; United States--US; Georgia; Crystal River; Tennessee; Florida; North Carolina; Tampa Bay; Atlanta Georgia

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Floods; United States; Disasters And Emergencies; Weather; Appalachian Region; North Carolina; Macur, Juliet; South Carolina; Mexico; Evacuations And Evacuees; Levees And Dams; Florida; Landslides And Mudslides; Beaches; Hurricane Michael (2018); Georgia; Coastal Areas; Asheville (Nc); Hurricane Idalia (2023); Roofs; Power Failures And Blackouts; Accidents And Safety; Gulf Coast (Us); Atlanta (Ga); Deaths (Fatalities); Tallahassee (Fla); Hurricanes And Tropical Storms; Television; Virginia; Tampa (Fla); Water; Hurricane Helene (2024); St Petersburg (Fla); Desantis, Ron; Tennessee; Gulf Of Mexico; Cedar Key (Fla); First Aid; Wind

Title: Hurricane Helene Leaves Huge Swaths of Damage in Its Wake

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 28, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-28T01:12:43Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3110526978

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hurricane-helene-leaves-huge-swaths-damage-wake/docview/3110526978/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Guns Made at Home for Militias and the Masses: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Dearden, Lizzie; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas

Publication info: Dearden, Lizzie; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guns-made-at-home-militias-masses/docview/3102605390/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: From his Illinois home, he champions guns for all. The Times confirmed his real name and linked the firearm he helped design to terrorists, drug dealers and freedom fighters in at least 15 countries.
After an attempted gang murder in the French city of Marseille last year, the police found what appeared to be a toy assault rifle, seemingly crafted from plastic and Lego parts.
"But the weapon was lethal," Col. Hervé Pétry of the national gendarmerie recalled.
In the past three years, this model of homemade semiautomatic firearm, known as an FGC-9, has appeared in the hands of paramilitaries in Northern Ireland, rebels in Myanmar and neo-Nazis in Spain. In October, a British teenager will be sentenced for building an FGC-9 in one of the latest terrorism cases to involve the weapon.
An online group known as Deterrence Dispensed publishes free instructions on how to build the weapon, a manual that says people everywhere should stand armed and ready.
"We together can defeat for good the infringement that is taking place on our natural-born right to bear arms, defend ourselves and rise up against tyranny," the document says.
This American brand of libertarianism has historically been a tough sell in many other parts of the world. Even if some people believed it in theory, strict laws made buying a gun so difficult that the ideology was almost beside the point.
The FGC-9 is changing that.
"It's not just a gun. It is also an ideology," said Kristian Abrahamsson, an intelligence officer with the Swedish customs police. Dozens of FGC-9s have turned up in his country in recent years, he said.
The New York Times has charted the FGC-9's growth from a hobbyist's garage project to a lethal pistol wielded by insurgents, terrorists, drug dealers and militia members in at least 15 countries.
While countless 3D-printed guns have been designed and circulated on the internet, international law enforcement officials say that the FGC-9 is by far the most common. The gun is so desirable among far-right extremists in Britain that the possession and sharing of its instruction manual is being charged as a terrorist offense.
Nobody does more to promote the gun and the ideology than its co-designer, who goes by the online name Ivan the Troll. The figurehead of Deterrence Dispensed, he has appeared in numerous YouTube videos and podcasts, but always under his aliases.
Court documents, corporate records and information posted on his social media accounts link the Ivan the Troll persona to a 26-year-old Illinois gunmaker named John Elik. The nephew of a state representative, Mr. Elik has emerged as one of the most important figures in the nascent international industry of 3D-printed guns.
Police forces around the world see that industry as a threat to gun restrictions that have limited who can have access to firearms. On that, the authorities and gun rights supporters agree.
The Times sent an interview request and an article summary to Mr. Elik's email address. A reply from an Ivan the Troll account declined to answer questions and said that he did not believe he would be treated fairly.
In the United States, 3D-printed guns are regulated by a hodgepodge of state laws. Illinois has restricted the sale and possession of homemade gun components, except by firearm dealers and manufacturers. Because he is a licensed manufacturer, there is no indication that Mr. Elik is violating that law. Illinois law requires manufacturers to add serial numbers to homemade gun components.
The videos posted online encourage viewers to know their local laws.
Most of the mass-produced weapons of the 20th century, even those now marketed for personal defense, were originally designed for militaries and hunters. The FGC-9, by contrast, was created with the explicit goal of arming as many everyday people as possible.
FGC is an abbreviation that represents what its creators think of gun control. Nine is for the 9-millimeter bullet it fires.
The use of the FGC-9 by insurgents opposed to the military junta in Myanmar is part of its creators' stated plan, a realization of the hope that guns could be used to stand up to the state.
Mr. Elik, in his email to The Times, said it was wrong to focus on "European cops complaining about a small number of guns being recovered," and shootings in which nobody was injured, "rather than the gun's use as a tool of liberation."
The Prototype
The gun's chief designer was Jacob Duygu, a German national of Kurdish heritage.
Germany requires gun owners to be licensed, but Mr. Duygu wanted to own a firearm on his own terms. He made it his mission to give anyone the tools to do the same, especially in countries with strict gun control laws.
Mr. Duygu developed an affinity for American libertarianism and the Second Amendment right to bear arms, according to Rajan Basra, a senior fellow at the International Center for the Study of Radicalization who has studied the proliferation of the FGC-9.
Mr. Duygu was known online as JStark, in homage to Maj. Gen. John Stark, a military leader of the American Revolution.
Social media accounts linked to Mr. Elik have voiced similar views.
"Civilians need assault weapons because having a weapon made for killing people is very important for self defense," one post read, adding, "If it's made for killing people quickly and easily, even better."
Mr. Duygu's design was published in March 2020 with the stated goal of circumventing gun laws. Homemade firearms have been around for centuries, but Mr. Duygu's was a breakthrough. The FGC-9 could be built entirely from scratch, without commercial gun parts, which are often regulated and tracked by law enforcement agencies internationally.
Anyone with a commercial 3D printer, hundreds of dollars in materials, some metalworking skills and plenty of patience could become a gun owner.
"It's a game changer," Dr. Basra said. "Now you have something that people can make at home with unregulated components. So from a law enforcement perspective, how do you stop that?"
The assembly instructions for the first iteration of the FGC-9 called for each gun to be etched with General Stark's motto, "Live Free or Die."
The release of the FGC-9 inspired gun enthusiasts to suggest their own modifications. Among them was Mr. Elik, who separately developed a do-it-yourself process for making the spiral grooves, or rifling, inside a gun barrel.
A year later, a new version of the FGC-9 was released, crediting Mr. Elik's pseudonym as a co-creator.
Dr. Basra and a security researcher, Nathan Mayer, first linked Mr. Elik to the Ivan the Troll accounts using online clues after he was identified in a lawsuit as an owner of a website promoting 3D-printed guns. The Times replicated and built on that research, using photographs and videos that Mr. Elik posted of his home and shooting ranges on his family's property, including his aunt's.
His aunt, Amy Elik, is a Republican state representative and a staunch supporter of gun rights. She voted against the state's ban on homemade firearms. She did not respond to a message seeking comment.
Mr. Duygu was found dead in 2021 of undetermined causes just days after he was questioned by the German police. Mr. Elik quickly became the highest-profile spokesman for the gun they created and went on to develop his own designs for partly 3D-printed weapons, including versions of a Kalashnikov and of an MP5 submachine gun.
"This pure marketplace of ideas wasn't created by accident, even if it's wildly more successful than Stark or I ever imagined," one of the accounts linked to Mr. Elik wrote online.
Going Viral
The weapon first received high-profile attention in December 2020, when Matthew Cronjager, a British neo-Nazi, was arrested and accused of trying to recruit and arm a militia. The targets included the British government, Jews, gay people, Muslims and members of ethnic minority groups.
Mr. Cronjager, then 17, had downloaded a Deterrence Dispensed manual for making 9-millimeter ammunition and the plans for the FGC-9. He was arrested after trying to pay an undercover officer to manufacture the gun. Mr. Cronjager, who was later convicted and jailed for more than 11 years, said that he wanted to topple the government and start a revolution, court records show.
Since then, several people with white-supremacist and anti-immigrant leanings have been prosecuted for terrorism offenses in Europe after trying to obtain the weapon to commit mass shootings. Drug gangs and prison inmates in Brazil have also been found with the weapon, the authorities there say.
No law enforcement official has yet linked an FGC-9 to a homicide, though they say that may be because traditional forensic techniques are not always reliable on homemade weapons.
Ivaylo Stefanov, of Interpol's illicit weapons unit, said, "Everybody thought it was going to take decades for the technology to be advanced and for the printers to be available to private citizens."
Interpol is notified of FGC-9 seizures at least every two months, and Mr. Stefanov said that many more were probably going unreported. "You see it even in European countries that have never ever had such cases," he said.
Ivan the Troll's media message is that this is hypocrisy. Western governments, he has noted, have armed the world's insurgents and authoritarian leaders with weapons of war. "I'm sharing a computer file," he said in a 2022 interview. "If I'm guilty of sharing information, what does that make them?"
And while the FGC-9 has become a staple with some of the world's far-right extremists, it has also been embraced by insurgent groups that are fighting Myanmar's military junta, which has committed atrocities on its own people.
"A lot of people use them," said a fighter there who goes by the call sign 3-D. He said the FGC-9 was often used for personal defense rather than for combat because its design left it susceptible to jamming in the harsh jungle environment.
As technology improves, Mr. Stefanov and others said, amateur gunmakers will most likely be able to use untraceable parts to build guns that fire like machine guns. The Biden administration is trying to regulate homemade gun components as firearms, a move that the Supreme Court will soon review.
Increasingly, the FGC-9 is being produced not only by individual hobbyists and extremists, but also by criminal operations that manufacture weapons to sell or rent. Makeshift factories have been found in Australia, France and Spain.
"There is an obvious ideological element," said Colonel Pétry, the French officer. "But we must not be naïve. Above all, there is a desire to make themselves fabulously rich."
Hannah Beech contributed reporting from Myanmar, and Sarah Hurtes from Brussels. Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Audio produced by Adrienne Hurst.
Hannah Beech contributed reporting from Myanmar, and Sarah Hurtes from Brussels. Kitty Bennett contributed research. Audio produced by Adrienne Hurst.
Photograph Parts of an FGC-9 homemade firearm seized in Germany. The gun can be built without commercial parts, which are often regulated and tracked by law enforcement agencies internationally. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA KOBLENZ PUBLIC PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE, GERMANY); The FGC-9 has been embraced by insurgent groups that are fighting Myanmar's military junta, part of its creators' plan: a realization of the hope that guns could be used to stand up to the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BEREHULAK/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Matthew Cronjager was arrested and accused of trying to arm a militia. He had downloaded the FGC-9 manual. (A10) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10.

Subject: Design; Drug trafficking; Firearm laws & regulations; Firearms; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Myanmar (Burma); Illinois

Company / organization: Name: Interpol; NAICS: 922120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/10/world/europe/ivan-troll-3d-printed-homemade-guns-fgc9.html

Title: Guns Made at Home for Militias and the Masses:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 11, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3102605390

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guns-made-at-home-militias-masses/docview/3102605390/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He’s Known as ‘Ivan the Troll.’ His 3D-Printed Guns Have Gone Viral.

Author: Dearden, Lizzie; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas

Publication info: Dearden, Lizzie; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-s-known-as-ivan-troll-his-3d-printed-guns-have/docview/3102569003/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LONDON — After an attempted gang murder in the French city of Marseille last year, police found what appeared to be a toy assault rifle, seemingly crafted from plastic and Lego parts.
“But the weapon was lethal,” Col. Hervé Pétry of the national gendarmerie recalled.
In the past three years, this model of homemade semiautomatic firearm, known as an FGC-9, has appeared in the hands of paramilitaries in Northern Ireland, rebels in Myanmar and neo-Nazis in Spain. In October, a British teenager will be sentenced for building an FGC-9 in one of the latest terrorism cases to involve the weapon.
An online group known as Deterrence Dispensed publishes free instructions on how to build the weapon, a manual that says people everywhere should stand armed and ready.
“We together can defeat for good the infringement that is taking place on our natural-born right to bear arms, defend ourselves and rise up against tyranny,” the document says.
This American brand of libertarianism has historically been a tough sell in many other parts of the world. Even if some people believed it in theory, strict laws made buying a gun so difficult that the ideology was almost beside the point.
The FGC-9 is changing that.
“It’s not just a gun. It is also an ideology,” said Kristian Abrahamsson, an intelligence officer with the Swedish customs police. Dozens of FGC-9s have turned up in his country in recent years, he said.
The New York Times has charted the FGC-9’s growth from a hobbyist’s garage project to a lethal pistol wielded by insurgents, terrorists, drug dealers and militia members in at least 15 countries.
While countless 3D-printed guns have been designed and circulated on the internet, international law enforcement officials say that the FGC-9 is by far the most common. The gun is so desirable among far-right extremists in Britain that the possession and sharing of its instruction manual is being charged as a terrorist offense.
Nobody does more to promote the gun and the ideology than its co-designer, who goes by the online name Ivan the Troll. The figurehead of Deterrence Dispensed, he has appeared in numerous YouTube videos and podcasts, but always under his aliases.
Court documents, corporate records and information posted on his social media accounts link the Ivan the Troll persona to a 26-year-old Illinois gunmaker named John Elik. The nephew of a state representative, Elik has emerged as one of the most important figures in the nascent international industry of 3D-printed guns.
Police forces around the world see that industry as a threat to gun restrictions that have limited who can have access to firearms. On that, authorities and gun rights supporters agree.
The Times sent an interview request and an article summary to Elik’s email address. A reply from an Ivan the Troll account declined to answer questions and said that he did not believe he would be treated fairly.
In the United States, 3D-printed guns are regulated by a hodgepodge of state laws. Illinois has restricted the sale and possession of homemade gun components, except by firearm dealers and manufacturers. Because he is a licensed manufacturer, there is no indication that Elik is violating that law. Illinois law requires manufacturers to add serial numbers to homemade gun components.
The videos posted online encourage viewers to know their local laws.
Most of the mass-produced weapons of the 20th century, even those now marketed for personal defense, were originally designed for militaries and hunters. The FGC-9, by contrast, was created with the explicit goal of arming as many everyday people as possible.
FGC is an abbreviation that represents what its creators think of gun control. Nine is for the 9 mm bullet it fires.
The use of the FGC-9 by insurgents opposed to the military junta in Myanmar is part of its creators’ stated plan, a realization of the hope that guns could be used to stand up to the state.
Elik, in his email to the Times, said it was wrong to focus on “European cops complaining about a small number of guns being recovered,” and shootings in which nobody was injured, “rather than the gun’s use as a tool of liberation.”
The Prototype
The gun’s chief designer was Jacob Duygu, a German national of Kurdish heritage.
Germany requires gun owners to be licensed, but Duygu wanted to own a firearm on his own terms. He made it his mission to give anyone the tools to do the same, especially in countries with strict gun control laws.
Duygu developed an affinity for American libertarianism and the Second Amendment right to bear arms, according to Rajan Basra, a senior fellow at the International Center for the Study of Radicalization who has studied the proliferation of the FGC-9.
Duygu was known online as JStark, in homage to Maj. Gen. John Stark, a military leader of the American Revolution.
Social media accounts linked to Elik have voiced similar views.
“Civilians need assault weapons because having a weapon made for killing people is very important for self defense,” one post read, adding, “If it’s made for killing people quickly and easily, even better.”
Duygu’s design was published in March 2020 with the stated goal of circumventing gun laws. Homemade firearms have been around for centuries, but Duygu’s was a breakthrough. The FGC-9 could be built entirely from scratch, without commercial gun parts, which are often regulated and tracked by law enforcement agencies internationally.
Anyone with a commercial 3D printer, hundreds of dollars in materials, some metalworking skills and plenty of patience could become a gun owner.
“It’s a game changer,” Basra said. “Now you have something that people can make at home with unregulated components. So from a law enforcement perspective, how do you stop that?”
The assembly instructions for the first iteration of the FGC-9 called for each gun to be etched with General Stark’s motto, “Live Free or Die.”
The release of the FGC-9 inspired gun enthusiasts to suggest their own modifications. Among them was Elik, who separately developed a do-it-yourself process for making the spiral grooves, or rifling, inside a gun barrel.
A year later, a new version of the FGC-9 was released, crediting Elik’s pseudonym as a co-creator.
Basra and a security researcher, Nathan Mayer, first linked Elik to the Ivan the Troll accounts using online clues after he was identified in a lawsuit as an owner of a website promoting 3D-printed guns. The Times replicated and built on that research, using photographs and videos that Elik posted of his home and shooting ranges on his family’s property, including his aunt’s.
His aunt, Amy Elik, is a Republican state representative and a staunch supporter of gun rights. She voted against the state’s ban on homemade firearms. She did not respond to a message seeking comment.
Duygu was found dead in 2021 of undetermined causes just days after he was questioned by the German police. Elik quickly became the highest-profile spokesperson for the gun they created and went on to develop his own designs for partly 3D-printed weapons, including versions of a Kalashnikov and of an MP5 submachine gun.
“This pure marketplace of ideas wasn’t created by accident, even if it’s wildly more successful than Stark or I ever imagined,” one of the accounts linked to Elik wrote online.
Going Viral
The weapon first received high-profile attention in December 2020, when Matthew Cronjager, a British neo-Nazi, was arrested and accused of trying to recruit and arm a militia. The targets included the British government, Jews, gay people, Muslims and members of ethnic minority groups.
Cronjager, then 17, had downloaded a Deterrence Dispensed manual for making 9 mm ammunition and the plans for the FGC-9. He was arrested after trying to pay an undercover officer to manufacture the gun. Cronjager, who was later convicted and jailed for more than 11 years, said that he wanted to topple the government and start a revolution, court records show.
Since then, several people with white-supremacist and anti-immigrant leanings have been prosecuted for terrorism offenses in Europe after trying to obtain the weapon to commit mass shootings. Drug gangs and prison inmates in Brazil have also been found with the weapon, authorities there say.
No law enforcement official has yet linked an FGC-9 to a homicide, though they say that may be because traditional forensic techniques are not always reliable on homemade weapons.
Ivaylo Stefanov, of Interpol’s illicit weapons unit, said, “Everybody thought it was going to take decades for the technology to be advanced and for the printers to be available to private citizens.”
Interpol is notified of FGC-9 seizures at least every two months, and Stefanov said that many more were probably going unreported. “You see it even in European countries that have never ever had such cases,” he said.
Ivan the Troll’s media message is that this is hypocrisy. Western governments, he has noted, have armed the world’s insurgents and authoritarian leaders with weapons of war. “I’m sharing a computer file,” he said in a 2022 interview. “If I’m guilty of sharing information, what does that make them?”
And while the FGC-9 has become a staple with some of the world’s far-right extremists, it has also been embraced by insurgent groups that are fighting Myanmar’s military junta, which has committed atrocities on its own people.
“A lot of people use them,” said a fighter there who goes by the call sign 3-D. He said the FGC-9 was often used for personal defense rather than for combat because its design left it susceptible to jamming in the harsh jungle environment.
As technology improves, Stefanov and others said, amateur gunmakers will most likely be able to use untraceable parts to build guns that fire like machine guns. The Biden administration is trying to regulate homemade gun components as firearms, a move that the Supreme Court will soon review.
Increasingly, the FGC-9 is being produced not only by individual hobbyists and extremists, but also by criminal operations that manufacture weapons to sell or rent. Makeshift factories have been found in Australia, France and Spain.
“There is an obvious ideological element,” said Pétry, the French officer. “But we must not be naive. Above all, there is a desire to make themselves fabulously rich.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Ideology; Law enforcement; Insurgency; Video recordings; Drug trafficking; Deterrence; Libertarianism; Social networks; Weapons; Extremism; Design; Nazi groups; Manufacturers; Shootings; Mass murders; Firearm laws & regulations; Militia groups; Firearms; State laws

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Manufacturers

Location: New York; United States--US; Illinois; Myanmar (Burma)

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Interpol; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: War And Armed Conflicts; 3 D Printers; Brazil; Neo Nazi Groups; Firearms; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Terrorism; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Immigration And Emigration; Deaths (Obituaries); Lego Group; Great Britain; Minorities; Second Amendment (Us Constitution); United States; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Gangs; Elections; Politics And Government; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Illinois; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Basra (Iraq); Arms Trade; Interpol (International Criminal Police Organization); Police; Germany; Social Media; Europe; Drivers Licenses; Ireland; Defense And Military Forces; Decisions And Verdicts; Cyberharassment; United States Politics And Government; Discrimination; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; World; Hate Crimes; Law And Legislation; Sweden; YoutubeCom; Kalashnikov Concern; Northern Ireland; Factories And Manufacturing; International Center For The Study Of Radicalization (King's College London); United States Defense And Military Forces; Toys; Myanmar; Republican Party; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Television; France; Australia; Gun Control; Supreme Court (Us); Fringe Groups And Movements; New York Times; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Spain

Title: He’s Known as ‘Ivan the Troll.’ His 3D-Printed Guns Have Gone Viral.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 10, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-10T21:52:24Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3102569003

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-s-known-as-ivan-troll-his-3d-printed-guns-have/docview/3102569003/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Adding Spaces to Play to Spaces to Pay: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Margolies, Jane

Publication info: Margolies, Jane. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/adding-spaces-play-pay/docview/3101880663/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Landlords are turning to companies like Hasbro and Mattel for some fun and games in "retailtainment."
Medical clinics, schools and apartments: For a decade, shopping mall owners have been desperately seeking new options for space vacated by shuttered department stores and bankrupt retailers.
One former J.C. Penney store at Westfield Garden State Plaza, a mall in Paramus, N.J., heralds yet another direction: themed attractions -- or the catchier term, "retailtainment" -- based on popular toy brands like Play-Doh and Nerf.
Construction workers have already divided up the second and third floors of the store into what will be the Nerf Action Xperience -- Nerf AX for short -- an attraction dedicated to the spongy, lightweight plaything made by Hasbro that includes mini footballs and blasters that shoot foam darts.
Brigid Witzke, head of new openings and projects at Brite Management, the site's operator, wove around scissor lifts and dumpsters as she led a tour on a recent morning, pointing to where visitors will be able to shoot foam basketballs at moving hoops and race through a parkour-inspired obstacle course.
In a maze of rooms on the upper level, "you're going to feel like you're in a postapocalyptic train station," Ms. Witzke said.
When it opens later this year, Nerf AX will join an explosion of entertainment concepts taking over an even larger share of retail spaces in an effort that started decades ago. But now, no longer just a movie theater or an arcade, these new, sprawling attractions cater to a variety of niche interests from Formula 1 racing to immersive installations for fans of Netflix shows and movies.
In the latest effort, mall owners are spending millions to entice shoppers to keep coming back. An additional 11 percent of entertainment space, or more than nine million square feet, has been planned for opening in North America by 2025, according to a 2023 report from the real estate firm JLL.
It's all part of a broad trend that real estate experts call "experiential retail" or "retailtainment." It's evolved from what used to be called the "experience economy," a term introduced in a 1998 article in The Harvard Business Review that predicted that malls would someday become more like theme parks.
That prediction was ahead of its time. With a few notable exceptions, most malls were largely unchanged until the last decade, when the shift to online shopping and later the Covid pandemic kept shoppers home. Now, mall owners are hoping the fun and games will draw people back to their properties.
Some of the new enterprises offer mall operators the opportunity to fill the yawning empty spaces left behind by department stores, a sector that continues to contract.
"We are the new anchor tenants," said Corey Redmond, senior executive vice president of Kingsmen Xperience, the Los Angeles attraction company that created the Nerf AX site in Paramus.
Most of the activity is taking place at upscale malls -- roughly a quarter of about 1,000 malls in the country, said Vince Tibone, head of U.S. retail and industrial research for the real estate analytics firm Green Street -- while other malls continue to struggle. The entertainment concepts can be expensive and cost millions to build, and landlords often split the bill with operators.
A challenge, after all that spending, will be keeping people coming back to a unique entertainment venue.
"Some brands work really well one day, then they get cold," said Matt Proulx, Hasbro's senior vice president who leads the company's "location-based entertainment" business -- what toy companies call their real estate ventures. The company, which is based in Pawtucket, R.I., opened a Nerf AX in a mall in Manchester, England, last year, and has "Peppa Pig" theme parks in the United States and Germany and a restaurant in Hong Kong inspired by "Transformers."
Still, Mr. Proulx said he believed attractions could stave off brand fatigue by "always innovating" and updating regularly to draw repeat customers. And they provide a new way to offer something decidedly old school: the sale of goods.
At Nerf AX in Paramus, 2,400 square feet will be devoted to selling the brand's toys and games, on the theory that a visitor might want a blaster to take home. "These retail areas are opportunities to move more product," Mr. Proulx said.
The pandemic helped to accelerate malls moving in this direction. During the global health crisis, retailers like Bed Bath & Beyond and Brooks Brothers filed for bankruptcy, and owners and managers of retail real estate found themselves with record vacancies -- but also with greater openness to filling those empty spaces with nontraditional business models, like pop-ups, immersive art installations and experiential offerings including pickleball courts and escape rooms.
For toy companies, the concepts offer new and potentially solid revenue streams: They license their intellectual property to attraction firms that take a doll or game and extrapolate a full-scale environment.
Merlin Entertainments, a theme park operator based in Britain, recently spent $ 5 million renovating its Lego Discovery Center in a mall in Atlanta. Now visitors can build their own rockets with the interlocking plastic bricks, scan their contraptions so they appear on an overhead screen, then launch them with a joystick. "The look and feel is updated," said Scott O'Neil, chief executive of Merlin.
And it's not just toy companies: Netflix took over a former Lord & Taylor at the King of Prussia mall outside Philadelphia to create immersive installations based on popular shows and movies, and attractions have been devoted to beloved series like "Friends" and "The Office," as well as newer fare including "Only Murders in the Building" and "Squid Game."
"These things didn't exist prior to a handful of years ago," said Andy Lederman, chief executive of Bucket Listers, creator of immersive experiences based on "Golden Girls" and Barbie, a Mattel brand.
Triple Five Group, a Canadian developer, pioneered retailtainment in 1992 when it opened the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn., with an amusement park taking up 20 percent of the property's square footage, said Paul Ghermezian, chief operations officer at Triple Five. The company's American Dream mall in East Rutherford, N.J., has 50 percent of its square footage devoted to entertainment.
At Area15, a mall outside Las Vegas, the entire property is dedicated to entertainment concepts. At other malls, the offerings are more lightly sprinkled in with traditional retailers. Attraction firms identify areas where the demographic profile suits the entertainment concepts.
Even adults can get in on the fun: At Paramus's Garden State Plaza -- where a plan to add housing was recently approved -- Pinstripes opened in a former Uniqlo space in February, offering Italian food on the main level and bowling and bocce ball below.
As for the former J.C. Penney space, the ground floor is now a Planet Playskool, another partnership between Hasbro, Kingsmen and Brite, that opened in June and is filled with activities based on brands like Play-Doh and Spirograph.
There, Jayden, age 3 ½, was building a helicopter from Tinkertoy parts. "Anything to keep him occupied," said Song Hahn, his mother, who added that the mall location meant they could also run errands and get lunch during their outing.
Photograph Children at the Planet Playskool attraction in the Westfield Garden State Plaza in Paramus, N.J., one of many "retailtainment" features being added to malls to draw shoppers.; Something beyond stores, intended to attract every age group: Shoppers too old for Planet Playskool in the Westfield Garden State Plaza, can try bowling, at Pinstripes. Right, the entry to the Planet Playskool. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN ANSELM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Children firing Nerf Blasters at the Nerf Action Xperience in Manchester, England, part of Hasbro's "location-based entertainment" business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK ROE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Lessors; Amusement parks; Retail stores; Department stores; Pandemics; Shopping centers; Entertainment

Business indexing term: Subject: Retail stores Department stores Shopping centers

Location: England; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: Garden State Plaza; NAICS: 531120; Name: Mattel Inc; NAICS: 336991, 339930; Name: Hasbro Inc; NAICS: 339930; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/31/business/malls-experiences-hasbro-nerf.html

Title: Adding Spaces to Play to Spaces to Pay:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 9, 2024

column: Square Feet

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3101880663

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/adding-spaces-play-pay/docview/3101880663/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Andy Cohen Lists His Light-Filled West Village Duplex for $14 Million: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kamin, Debra

Publication info: Kamin, Debra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/andy-cohen-lists-his-light-filled-west-village/docview/3101745687/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The TV host is trading his 3,500-square-foot apartment, painstakingly assembled over nearly 21 years, for a penthouse in the same neighborhood.
Andy Cohen, the TV host, author and longtime producer, spent 21 years building his dream West Village home -- a fantastical assemblage of four apartments that he turned into a single 3,500-square foot home where light floods nearly every room.
It's a showstopper, the kind of eye-watering real estate you'd see on reality TV shows like "The Real Housewives" franchise, which he has produced for more than two decades.
"The first time I ever walked into Andy's apartment, I said, 'Whenever you are willing to part with this, even if I have to pull it from your grip, please let me know. Because it's a one of one,"' said Ryan Serhant, owner of the eponymous luxury brokerage SERHANT and star of "Owning Manhattan" on Netflix.
That time has come.
Mr. Cohen is selling what Mr. Serhant calls the ultimate bespoke apartment, and Mr. Serhant is the listing agent. "It's one of those treasures that you wait your whole career for to find something like this that you get to bring to market and sell," Mr. Serhant said.
The asking price is $ 14 million.
Mr. Cohen and Mr. Serhant became friends more than a decade ago, when Mr. Serhant made his reality TV debut in 2012 on "Million Dollar Listing," a program on Bravo, where Mr. Cohen has long served as a host and executive producer.
The pair met at a time of transition for Mr. Cohen. He was moving on from his role as an executive at Bravo to spend more time in front of the camera, and was just kicking off his renovations. Nine years earlier, in 2003, he had purchased a unit for $ 1.4 million that is now the ground floor of his duplex. He got to know the neighbors and the doorman in his prewar, Bing & Bing-designed building. A doorman tipped him off to the fact that the unit directly above his might be vacant soon.
Mr. Cohen bought that unit, then two additional adjacent studios, working with the architect Gordon Kahn to meticulously merge the apartments like life-size Lego pieces.
When the pandemic shut down the city in 2020, Mr. Cohen had finished most of his renovations (a fourth unit was added in 2022). His home is now a custom two-story apartment with three bedrooms plus an office, den and nanny's suite. A custom glass, walnut and steel staircase designed by Mr. Kahn unites the two floors. The apartment is bounded by windows on every side and features wood-burning fireplaces, a steam room, and the most elusive of New York City amenities -- generous closets and three additional storage units.
If the walls could talk, they would have a lot of tea to spill: Mr. Cohen has thrown many holiday parties in his home, with guests including Madonna, Sarah Jessica Parker, John Mayer, Ralph Fiennes and Kelly Ripa.
When the parties went on pause, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Serhant realized they had two very important things in common: their children. Mr. Cohen's son, Benjamin, was born just a few weeks before Mr. Serhant's daughter, Zena.
With a pair of 1-year-olds, fatherhood fostered their friendship, and the pandemic made them a sort of pod. They began spending long hours in the apartment's candy-colored rooms while their children played. In the living room, the sofa is a Paul Smith series of green, yellow, brown and baby blue Maharam stripes, like Crayola crayons standing at attention. Color continues with a denim love seat and burlap wallpaper by Ralph Lauren, and on the walls -- in one bathroom, Mr. Cohen opted for Brooklyn-based Flavor Paper's Cherry Forever wallpaper; in the kitchen and adjacent sitting room, he has a whimsical floral mural, Field of Daydreams, by the same company.
"Our relationship changed a few years ago when we both became dads," Mr. Cohen said. Benjamin and Zena are now 5, and Mr. Cohen has since also welcomed his daughter, Lucy, 2.
During one of their play dates in the early months of the pandemic, Mr. Cohen asked Mr. Serhant how he would price the apartment if he were to sell. Mr. Serhant had been hoping for such a question.
"It's like moving into a magazine," Mr. Serhant said.
After spending two decades painstakingly building his dream home, Mr. Cohen hesitated about leaving. But no matter how many units he purchased and combined, there was one thing that eluded him -- outdoor space.
His new home is a four-minute walk away, in another Bing & Bing-designed West Village building. This one, a penthouse that he bought for more than $ 18 million, has 3,000 square feet inside and a 2,000-square-foot terrace.
"It was a once in a lifetime opportunity," Mr. Cohen said of the penthouse coming on the market. "I had to take it."
He doesn't generally mix business with his personal life, he said, but he's excited to work with his friend.
"It'll be like being on one of Ryan's shows," he said.
Whether Mr. Cohen's home sale will actually appear as a plotline in "Owning Manhattan" remains to be seen -- when asked, Mr. Serhant said he preferred not to comment.
"Bravo and Netflix might have an issue with that," he said. "But it would be like Deadpool and Wolverine, real estate style. That's basically the two of us."
Photograph Clockwise from middle left: Andy Cohen, left, and Ryan Serhant, owner of a brokerage firm; Mr. Cohen worked with an interior designer and an architect to combine four apartments into one home; the sofa is a Paul Smith series of green, yellow, brown and baby blue stripes; a powder room features a red lacquered entry and silver mylar wallpaper; the kitchen has dual exposures (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EYTAN STERN WEBER/EVAN JOSEPH IMAGES; NICHOLAS HUNT/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page RE6.

Subject: Wallcoverings; Reality programming; Apartments; Pandemics

People: Cohen, Andy; Serhant, Ryan

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/04/realestate/exclusive-andy-cohen-west-village.html

Title: Andy Cohen Lists His Light-Filled West Village Duplex for $14 Million:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 8, 2024

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3101745687

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/andy-cohen-lists-his-light-filled-west-village/docview/3101745687/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright Ne w York Times Company Sep 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In an Election Season, A Festival Gets Political: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Sperling, Nicole

Publication info: Sperling, Nicole. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/election-season-festival-gets-political/docview/3100381468/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A documentary made with Legos and a biopic starring a CGI monkey showed alongside films about abortion restrictions and other subjects in the news.
As the 51st edition of the Telluride Film Festival came to a close on Monday, the films seemed to sort themselves into two categories: experimental or topical. The documentary filmmaker Morgan Neville and the musical director Michael Gracey each took big, ambitious swings to tell the stories of Pharrell Williams and the British pop star Robbie Williams (no relation). One used Legos. The other a CGI monkey. Other filmmakers turned the lens on issues in the news like transgender-care laws, abortion restrictions and further matters facing voters in the November election.
And as always, conversations swirled around what will and will not go the distance to the Oscars in March.
The director of Telluride, Julie Huntsinger, told the media at the start of the festival on Friday to prepare themselves for some crazy movies (though she used a more colorful term). It was less a warning than a promise, and it was followed by Neville's film "Piece by Piece," which was filmed entirely with Legos, depicting pop and rap superstars like Jay-Z, Missy Elliott and Pharrell Williams.
"What if nothing is new?" Williams says in the glossy depiction of his life, due in theaters Oct. 11. "What if life is like a Lego set and you're just borrowing from everyone else?"
Later that evening Gracey ("The Greatest Showman") relied on the magicians at Weta FX to depict Robbie Williams as a monkey, an approach that allowed the audience to "see Robbie as he sees himself," the director told the crowd. Robbie Williams compared the experience of debuting his story to being "like an 11-year-old who's having the best day possible."
The experimentation continued with "Nickel Boys," in which the director RaMell Ross played with perspective in adapting Colson Whitehead's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel of the same name.
And that was just opening day. Saturday seemed reserved for political awareness and "Saturday Night Live."
The Netflix documentary "Will & Harper" had both. The film tracks a road trip undertaken by Will Ferrell and Harper Steele, a former "S.N.L." head writer and Ferrell's friend of 30 years. Steele, a trans woman, wants to see if she can traverse the country as she once loved to do.
The film, which played at Sundance in January, drew a wide swath of the Telluride audience, including Martha Stewart (in town for her documentary, "Martha") and Bill Murray ("The Friend"). It also earned a standing ovation for Steele, which she was quick to point out to Ferrell, when the two took the stage.
The movie, directed by Josh Greenbaum, gives viewers an intimate look at a friendship that's made deeper by the momentous change to one friend and the other's authentic response to it. Ferrell comes across as both an audience surrogate trying to better understanding the transition and as an empathetic mensch. Steele noted that Ferrell's willingness to participate could come at a great cost to him and his professional image. "This is a brand that will get hurt by it," Steele said at the screening.
Audiences then packed the theater for "Zurawski v Texas," about women who are suing the state over the loss of abortion rights. Festivalgoers were there in part to see former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, an executive producer on the documentary, participate in the post-screening panel. "I don't think we can underestimate how important this film is in order to break through the eye rolling, the denial, the dismissiveness, the cruelty that has affected so many women's lives," Clinton said.
Later that afternoon, a crowd of 500 gathered in Elks Park, in the center of Telluride, to hear the film's subjects and Chelsea Clinton, another executive producer on the film, discuss suing the state of Texas over maternal health care. (The Texas Supreme Court ruled against the 20 plaintiffs in May.)
Saturday night at the festival was one of nerves. Director Jason Reitman paced the theater ahead of his film "Saturday Night." It takes place in the 90 minutes leading up to the first episode of "Saturday Night Live," which begins its 50th-anniversary season this fall.
"This is a level of adrenaline reserved for test pilots and heroin addicts," Reitman said in his opening remarks, which featured a guest appearance from Murray, a former "S.N.L." cast member and a longtime collaborator with Reitman's father, Ivan.
The director Ali Abbasi was also nervous about the first U.S. showing of his controversial movie "The Apprentice," which chronicles the rise of former President Donald J. Trump (Sebastian Stan) and his relationship with the lawyer Roy Cohn (Jeremy Strong). Abbasi told a packed 10 p.m. screening just how worried he was about its premiere here. "This was some years in the making and now it's coming back home to you guys," he said.
The fate of the film, which debuted in Cannes to strong reviews in May, was uncertain as recently as last week when the producers were still trying to finalize a deal to buy out the financier Kinematics, one of whose backers is the Trump ally Dan Snyder. That deal is now done, and the film will officially open in theaters on Oct. 11 from the distributor Briarcliff Entertainment despite Trump's threats to sue the filmmakers. "This is not a political hit piece," Abbasi said of his film. "This is a mirror intended to show you an image of yourselves, you as a community."
Perhaps as a companion piece to "The Apprentice," Telluride scheduled Errol Morris's "Separated," a documentary chronicling the Trump administration policy of separating immigrant families trying to cross the southern border, at the same time.
It is one of several titles looking for distribution, which is unusual for movies debuting at Telluride. Others include "Zurawski v Texas"; "The Friend," starring Naomi Watts and a Great Dane; the 1972 Munich Olympics hostage drama "September 5," starring Peter Sarsgaard; and Petra Costa's documentary "Apocalypse in the Tropics," about evangelical Christians' effect on a Brazilian election. Telluride seems amenable to helping with the sales. "The filmmakers are hoping that people can get excited about the movies and drive the price up," Huntsinger said.
Studios also brought Oscar hopefuls that premiered at other festivals. Netflix brought the cast of "Emilia Perez," including Selena Gomez, Zoe Saldaña and Karla Sofía Gascón, here after buying it in Cannes. Neon wanted festivalgoers to take a look at "Anora," the Cannes Palme d'or-winning film about a Brooklyn sex worker played by Mikey Madison. And Searchlight sent Jesse Eisenberg and Kieran Culkin to Colorado to show "A Real Pain," which it bought in Sundance.
Photograph One film at Telluride, "Piece by Piece," about Pharrell Williams, was made using Legos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOCUS FEATURES) (C1); Films at the Telluride Film Festival, clockwise from above: Will Ferrell, left, and Harper Steele in the documentary "Will & Harper"; Jeremy Strong, left, as Roy Cohn and Sebastian Stan as Donald J. Trump in "The Apprentice"; and Molly Duane, senior attorney for the Center for Reproductive Rights, at the mic in "Zurawski v Texas," another documentary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUNDANCE INSTITUTE; SCYTHIA FILMS; AFTERROE PRODUCTIONS) (C3) This article appeared in print on page C1, C3.

Subject: Documentary films; Audiences; Abortion; Motion picture festivals

Location: Texas; United States--US

People: Ferrell, Will

Company / organization: Name: Telluride Film Festival; NAICS: 512131, 711320; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/02/movies/telluride-festival.html

Title: In an Election Season, A Festival Gets Political:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 4, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3100381468

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/election-season-festival-gets-political/docview/3100381468/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Choosing This Bling, Rappers Speak Volumes: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Seph Rodney

Publication info: Seph Rodney. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/choosing-this-bling-rappers-speak-volumes/docview/3099360628/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hip-hop jewelry does a lot of heavy lifting in a new exhibition in Manhattan. It signifies elite membership, romantic courtship and ambition for greatness.
Of the New York museums that would create an exhibition on jewelry associated with hip-hop culture, I would not have imagined the American Museum of Natural History to be one. Yet, "Ice Cold: An Exhibition of Hip-Hop Jewelry" did open this May in a tiny gallery of their Mignone Halls of Gems and Minerals. With 66 objects, it has an astute premise -- that precious stones might attract more attention if regarded through the lens of hip-hop, likely the most widely proliferating music movement that the United States has ever produced.
This show might have been organized to absorb the energy around the 50th anniversary of hip-hop's inception last year or anticipate the Hip Hop Museum's opening in the Bronx in 2025. More cynically, some might see "Ice Cold" as an act of penance for the museum's admitted possession and use of the remains of Indigenous and enslaved people, as the museum faces criticism about the legality and the ethics of these acquisitions. Either way, the venture feels successful. I visited the show twice, on a Thursday evening and on a Monday morning, and each time the gallery was filled with visitors.
The show is beautifully laid out. It's installed in a small, dark, semicircular gallery, with jewelry in vitrines spotlighted against a black acetate and Plexiglas. The diamonds glint and coruscate as you move across the displays. One could linger, bedazzled and charmed by the bold inventiveness of pieces like ASAP Rocky's EXO grenade pendant -- its "pin" sets the time -- displayed on two disks set inside a locket. However, the exhibition offers more, including the concealed and paradoxical implications of wearing these constellations of bling.
The curators, Vikki Tobak, author of "Ice Cold: A Hip-Hop Jewelry History," Kevin "Coach K" Lee, a founder of the Quality Control music label, and Karam Gill, the director of a documentary on the subject, took the important step of historically situating hip-hop's ostentatious display of wealth. They refer to an Asante chief in Ghana whose ceremonial dress consisted of copious amounts of gold (though the date of an image referenced turns out to be 2005, which makes the ancestral connection vague).
Shrewdly, the curators also name check each jeweler (when they are known), so they are properly recognized as collaborators and makers alongside the musical stars, such as Ghostface Killah's eagle bracelet by Jason Arasheben -- a massive 14 karat gold wrist cuff with an eagle alighting onto it. The Notorious B.I.G.'s Jesus necklace, made by Tito Caicedo of Manny's New York, is another icon. It features the head and neck of a figure in gold whose beard, locks, clothing and crown are festooned with diamonds. In terms of the meaning they convey, these chains do a lot of heavy lifting.
For starters, they indicate membership in a very exclusive club, such as Quality Control's QC necklace for members of its label, including Migos and Lil Yachty. The Roc-A-Fella pendant -- which notoriously can't be bought but has to be bestowed -- was made for the eponymous label founded by Jay-Z, Damon Dash and Kareem Burke. And after releasing their 1986 song "My Adidas," each Run-DMC member received a solid-gold sneaker-shaped pendant by Adidas upon signing an endorsement deal.
Roxanne Shanté of the Juice Crew, and one of the few women rappers to achieve stardom in the early days of hip-hop, has her Juice Crew ring shown here. "Having the Juice Crew ring is like a royalty stance, and you had to represent certain things in the community to wear it," she says in the show's text. "It stands for so much: community, loyalty and greatness."
This jewelry is also used by men in courting rituals. Nelly, who wears a diamond Nefertiti piece in one of the exhibition photos, sings in "Ride Wit Me" (2000): "And if shorty wanna pop, we popping the Crist' / Shorty wanna see the ice, then I ice the wrist." Both parties benefit here: The man, bestowing Cristal Champagne, is recognized as a lavish provider; the woman as a valued object deserving of expensive expenditure. What's unrecognized is just how restrictive these roles can be. (Insightfully, though, queer experience is not ignored in the exhibition, which includes the jeweler David Tamargo's grill set commissioned by Lil Nas X in 2021 to celebrate the artist's unabashedly homoerotic single, "Montero (Call Me By Your Name).")
These pieces also serve as a kind of memorial. On display is the Capital Steez necklace commissioned by Joey Badass in honor of his friend Capital Steez, who died in 2012 at 19 years old. Badass became a founding member of the Progressive Era or Pro Era collective along with Steez and other rappers. The necklace features the late rapper's likeness, in gold, on a diamond-studded Gucci link chain. Pouring one out for a homie who has passed on is a well-known ritual, but imprinting his image on a pendant moves him up into the pantheon of public attention.
But more important, the jewelry also stands for the ambition to be elite, to have the means to spend money extravagantly on personal adornment. And this desire usually outpaces the actual assets that aspirational rappers have at their disposal.
On his 2004 debut album "The College Dropout," Kanye West, lately Ye, rapped about buying $ 25,000 jewelry before owning a house, then adding: "I got a couple past-due bills, I won't get specific/I got a problem with spendin' before I get it/We all self-conscious, I'm just the first to admit it." Ye, one of the most emotionally transparent (and most unstable) voices in hip-hop, articulates its fake-it-till-you-make-it ethos.
This is a critique often leveled at hip-hop culture: that lavish self-presentation -- not only jewelry but also clothing and cars -- says what you buy, as opposed to what you produce, is the measure of your value; that hip-hop glorifies a lifestyle that is fake or irresponsible and, either way, out of reach for most people on this planet. There is some truth to all of this. But this is not hip-hop's cross to bear alone. The fault lies in American popular culture at large.
Throughout the 1980s, during hip-hop's commercial rise, the television show "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous" flogged the clichéd notion that "making it" consisted of having exclusive wristwatches, automobiles, boats and real estate. In hip-hop culture, rappers say it with their chests, out loud, without shame, in the streets. The trappings are worn for public view, rather than obscured by shell companies.
Still, this shamelessness permits callous and spiteful parts of the culture to feel entitled. "Run the Jewels," released in 2013 by the eponymous rap duo, encouraged violently stealing jewelry from anyone who seems privileged: "So when we say, 'Run the jewels'/Just run 'em, baby, please don't delay me/She clutched the pearls, said, 'What in the world?'/ And, 'I won't give up shit!'/I put the pistol on that poodle and I shot that bitch."
So, while "Ice Cold" sings from the hip-hop songbook in the key of celebration, it avoids the messier bits of the culture: the misogyny, the persistent though lessening homophobia, the endorsement of physical violence.
I wish hip-hop culture as it is presented here was more aware of and willing to acknowledge these contradictions and brave enough to try resolve them. But this show doesn't aim to do this. It doesn't feature the weird parts of hip-hop, underground acts, "conscious" or feminist rap, or hip-hop produced outside the United States. Still, Latin artists are present, including Fat Joe and Big Pun. As are some women rappers, including MC Lyte and Queen Latifah.
The show does take seriously the less expensive signs of Black Liberation that act as adornment, such as DJ Kool Herc's leather medallion on which he drew his self-portrait and graffiti tag. Kool Herc is one of the pioneers of hip-hop from the early 1970s, so his inclusion is a nod to the historical tradition. Within that tradition is Public Enemy, arguably the most overtly political group of the early 1990s. The show offers clock pendants (adopted on a dare) worn by their hype man, Flavor Flav, and the pendant designed by Chuck D, a founder of the group, that features a Black man caught in the cross hairs of a rifle sight -- meant to symbolize the plight of all Black men in the U.S.
But there is an internal contradiction in the show and within hip-hop itself: The people whom the culture purports to represent are, to an extent, ignored in favor of the celebrities who hold the mic and whose voices boom loudest. These are the one percent.
Yet, the orientation toward the street and the desire to show the neighborhood that you have arrived financially impels innovation. T Pain's "Big Ass Chain" necklace weighs more than 10 pounds and has almost 200 carats of diamonds. According to the caption, he commissioned this piece on a dare from a person he does not even remember.
Tyler, the Creator's bellhop necklace, a bejeweled golden figure carrying a suitcase in each hand, is my favorite piece not because, as the text conveys, it "incorporates 186 carats in diamonds and 60 carats in sapphire, as well as more than 23,000 handset stones." Rather, it alludes to the history of Black people laboring in service jobs, such as hotel bellhops, because -- on the basis of their race alone -- they were denied employment commensurate with their skills, abilities and ambitions. It's a symbol of Tyler's success and a nod to his ancestors who could not radiate their gifts so publicly.
I know something about the impulse to celebrate one's achievements with jewelry. I got my first black diamond ring a few years ago and had to overcome significant anxiety to do it. I grew up in a working-class home that convinced me that extravagance was permissible only after achieving a firmly middle-class life. I don't know that I have. But after the protracted struggle to attain my doctorate, I felt I deserved it. It wasn't until the third visit to a Midtown jeweler that I noticed pictures on the walls of various hip-hop luminaries. What connects us is the years we spent working in obscurity, and our willingness to invest in an object that pays gleaming tribute to the work we've done.
During a recent public forum, Nikole Hannah-Jones, the author of "The 1619 Project," discussed the importance of Black people presenting themselves in ways that read as authentic. She said, "One of the things I love about Black people is our sense of style and flair." She argues that in the struggle to achieve success, "What is important is if you make it, make it intact."
"Ice Cold," despite its limitations, emphasizes the aspect of hip-hop that genuinely nourishes its audiences: recognizing and acknowledging that we deserve more than simply being intact; we have every right to shine.
Ice Cold: An Exhibition of Hip-Hop Jewelry Through Jan. 5 at the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan; amnh.org.
Photograph A necklace honoring Capital Steez, on view in "Ice Cold: An Exhibition of Hip-Hop Jewelry." (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1); Below from left: Ghostface Killah's cuff, designed by Jason Arasheben; the QC necklace, made of diamonds and 14-karat white gold and designed by Wafi of Jewelry Unlimited; the Capital Steez necklace, which Joey Badass commissioned when Steez died in 2014; Roxanne Shanté's Juice Crew ring; the Roc-a-Fella pendant, which can only be bestowed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALVARO KEDING/AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY; MIDDLE, VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Second row, Slick Rick's crown and eyepatch in "Ice Cold: An Exhibition of Hip-Hop Jewelry" at the American Museum of Natural History. Above from left: a gold necklace featuring Missy Elliott, Lauryn Hill, Beyoncé, Queen Latifah, Mary J. Blige and Erykah Badu; A $ AP Rocky's Lego pendant; T Pain's necklace, which weighs more than 10 pounds. Below, the show is in a gallery within the museum's Mignone Halls of Gems and Minerals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VINCENT TULLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALVARO KEDING/AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Rap music; Jewelry; Diamonds; Musicians & conductors; Hip hop music; Museums; Hip hop culture; Quality control; Art exhibits

Business indexing term: Subject: Museums Quality control

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/31/arts/design/ice-cold-hip-hop-jewelry-museum.html

Title: In Choosing This Bling, Rappers Speak Volumes:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 2, 2024

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099360628

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/choosing-this-bling-rappers-speak-volumes/docview/3099360628/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

From the Sea, Thousands Creep to Land in the Epoch of the Great Lego Spill: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Ortiz, Aimee

Publication info: Ortiz, Aimee. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sea-thousands-creep-land-epoch-great-lego-spill/docview/3099220471/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On a miserable, drizzly day in late June, Hayley Hardstaff, a marine biologist, took a walk along Portwrinkle Beach in Cornwall, England, and discovered a dragon. It was a Lego piece -- black, plastic and missing its upper jaw.
Ms. Hardstaff, who grew up in Cornwall, had a long history of finding Lego pieces. As a child there, she collected them from the beach, puzzled about why so many children were forgetting their toys.
By the time she went walking last June, she knew much more, and quickly recognized the scaly head and neck poking out of the sand, "its entire dragonhood on display."
Ms. Hardstaff had found yet another tiny artifact of one of history's oddest maritime mishaps.
In 1997, nearly five million Lego pieces -- including 33,427 black dragons -- were packed in a shipping container when a rogue wave hit the Tokio Express, a cargo ship hauling the toys and other goods. The ship, which had been traveling to New York from Rotterdam, the Netherlands, nearly capsized, and it lost all 62 of its shipping containers -- an event known as the Great Lego Spill.
In a whimsical twist, many of the pieces were nautically themed. It was arguably the single largest toy-related environmental disaster that we know of, experts say, and people are still finding pieces 27 years later.
The event and its aftermath are documented on social media on the Lego Lost at Sea Facebook page, where Ms. Hardstaff learned the history. "I'd seen some people had found these dragons," she said. "Otherwise, I would have had no idea."
Lego Lost at Sea, which also has accounts on X and Instagram, is run by Tracey Williams, who started documenting Lego finds after she moved to Cornwall around 2010.
"The very first time I went to the beach, I found a bit of Lego from the spill, and I thought that was quite astonishing," she said.
Ms. Williams knew the story of the Great Lego Spill. Years ago, during visits to her parents' home in Devon, she regularly took her children beachcombing. They looked for shells, sea glass and interesting pebbles. Then, in 1997, Lego pieces started washing up.
"We knew it's from a cargo spill, but I didn't know much more about it," she said, adding that her children would fill up small plastic buckets with their beach treasures.
"I hadn't really forgotten about the Lego story," she said, "but it was when I came here to Cornwall and saw it washing up again and I just thought, That's astonishing, you know, that 13 years later and this Lego was still appearing."
Her find sparked an idea: creating a community to trace who else had found Lego, which pieces they had found, and where. She created a Facebook page, and the BBC reported on it, leading to a flood of submissions.
People found tiny, colorful octopuses, dragons, life rafts, scuba flippers, scuba tanks, sea grass and more, and they enthusiastically reported their finds to the page. "At last," read a blurb from a recent find, "after years of searching I find my very first piece of lego, lost at sea." The endeavor became a widely followed project and lead to a book titled "Adrift: The Curious Tale of the Lego Lost at Sea."
Over the years, Ms. Williams has kept a record of the found pieces, including rare green dragons (only 514 were in the container) and black octopuses (4,200) that have become prized finds for beachcombers. She's mapped where the toys have turned up -- on the English coast, in Wales, France, Belgium, Ireland and the Netherlands. But it's possible pieces have drifted all over the world by now.
For Curtis Ebbesmeyer, there's no doubt about it. Dr. Ebbesmeyer is an oceanographer known for tracking the Friendly Floatees Spill in 1992, in which thousands of rubber ducks and other bath toys washed into the Pacific Ocean. He said ocean currents were "like the world's greatest subway line."
"They take anything, anywhere," he said.
After the Cornwall spill, Dr. Ebbesmeyer reached out to Lego to ask what had been on the ship. The company sent him an inventory, along with a sampling of the kinds of pieces that had been in the container. He promptly tested them in his bathtub for buoyancy and found that half of the pieces floated.
That difference could account for the missing Lego pieces that fell off the Tokio Express in 1997 and have yet to surface. Ms. Williams said she regularly spoke to fishermen who discovered the pieces as they trawled the bottom of the ocean. A Lego shark, one of 51,800 that were in the container, was caught in a fisherman's net 20 miles off the Cornish coast in late July. It's the first of the sharks to see daylight in 27 years.
"Only another 51,799 to find," Ms. Williams wrote on the Lego Lost at Sea account.
Andrew Turner, a professor of marine and environmental biogeochemistry at the University of Plymouth in England, said the Great Lego Spill was an interesting case study because of the public's knowledge about it. Often, container spills aren't made public unless there's something hazardous or toxic inside. It's also the "tip of the iceberg" when it comes to plastic pollution in the ocean, he said.
"There's so much plastic on the bottom of the ocean that we just don't know anything about, and how much is there, and when and if it's going to wash up," Professor Turner said.
The container mishap created an expected public relations challenge for the company that makes the toys. Calling the Great Lego Spill "an unfortunate accident," a spokesperson for the Lego Group said the company didn't "ever want Lego bricks to end up in the sea."
"We are serious about our role in helping to look after the planet," the spokesperson said. "We have an ambitious sustainability strategy that aims to leave a positive impact for future generations."
Christopher M. Reddy, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, said that scientists were still forming an understanding of how plastic affects the ocean and marine life. The plastic pieces -- which can be mistaken for food by wildlife, or even become small enough to enter the body through the gills -- are harmful, but Dr. Reddy said the most worrying threat to the ocean was the increasing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that's fueling climate change.
Rob Arnold, an artist in Cornwall, creates work from plastics he has recovered from the English coast. He is looking to both reduce marine plastic pollution and spread awareness about it. Armed with garbage bags and sheer grit, he goes out on long, sometimes arduous walks. He climbs over rocks to reach hidden coves where trash piles up, collecting water bottles, plastic teeth, bottle caps and, yes, Lego.
He is a reluctant artist. Mr. Arnold said he "would much prefer that material wasn't there, and I was making art out of something nice."
He has created an hourglass filled with plastic pellets, called nurdles; a Stonehenge built out of lighters; and a piece with nearly 1,000 Lego flippers, or scuba fins, arranged neatly in rows.
For some, caring for the ocean and the surrounding environment can go hand in hand with a love of the hunt for Lego. Ms. Williams, the Lego Lost at Sea founder, has long been part of a beach-cleanup network.
Ms. Hardstaff, the marine biologist, said she was always on the lookout for plastic and other trash to clean up at her local beach. But the Lego black dragon, she said, "I was happy to keep instead of throw away." Its nearly 30-year journey ended on her bedside table.
Mr. Arnold said the Great Lego Spill captured people's attention and raised awareness about plastic pollution.
"Hoping we're going to find some Lego," Mr. Arnold said, makes beach cleans "a bit more fun."
Photograph Tracey Williams, below near her home in Cornwall, U.K., wrote "Adrift: The Curious Tale of the Lego Lost at Sea," about a cargo ship that lost all 62 of its shipping containers in rough seas, including nearly five million Lego pieces. Left and below, a collection of pieces that have been discovered so far.; Rob Arnold climbing down to a stretch of coastline in England to gather rubbish and plastic that has collected in a secluded cove. Mr. Arnold creates works of art with the plastic he recovers. (A8) This article appeared in print on page A1, A8.

Subject: Toys; Marine biology; Social networks; Plastic pollution; Container ships

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Container ships

Location: England; Netherlands; United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: Lego AS; NAICS: 339930

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/30/world/europe/1997-lego-spill.html

Title: From the Sea, Thousands Creep to Land in the Epoch of the Great Lego Spill:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 1, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3099220471

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sea-thousands-creep-land-epoch-great-lego-spill/docview/3099220471/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dragons and Sharks on a Beach Near You: The Story of the Great Lego Spill

Author: Ortiz, Aimee

Publication info: Ortiz, Aimee. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dragons-sharks-on-beach-near-you-story-great-lego/docview/3099183098/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
On a miserable, drizzly day in late June, Hayley Hardstaff, a marine biologist, took a walk along Portwrinkle Beach in Cornwall, England, and discovered a dragon. It was a Lego piece — black, plastic and missing its upper jaw.
Hardstaff, who grew up in Cornwall, had a long history of finding Lego pieces. As a child there, she collected them from the beach, puzzled about why so many children were forgetting their toys.
By the time she went walking last June, she knew much more, and quickly recognized the scaly head and neck poking out of the sand, “its entire dragonhood on display.”
Hardstaff had found yet another tiny artifact of one of history’s oddest maritime mishaps.
In 1997, nearly 5 million Lego pieces — including 33,427 black dragons — were packed in a shipping container when a rogue wave hit the Tokio Express, a cargo ship hauling the toys and other goods. The ship, which had been traveling to New York from Rotterdam, the Netherlands, nearly capsized, and it lost all 62 of its shipping containers — an event known as the Great Lego Spill.
In a whimsical twist, many of the pieces were nautically themed. It was arguably the single largest toy-related environmental disaster that we know of, experts say, and people are still finding pieces 27 years later.
The event and its aftermath are documented on social media on the Lego Lost at Sea Facebook page, where Hardstaff learned the history. “I’d seen some people had found these dragons,” she said. “Otherwise, I would have had no idea.”
Lego Lost at Sea, which also has accounts on X and Instagram, is run by Tracey Williams, who started documenting Lego finds after she moved to Cornwall around 2010.
“The very first time I went to the beach, I found a bit of Lego from the spill, and I thought that was quite astonishing,” she said.
Williams knew the story of the Great Lego Spill. Years ago, during visits to her parents’ home in Devon, she regularly took her children beachcombing. They looked for shells, sea glass and interesting pebbles. Then, in 1997, Lego pieces started washing up.
“We knew it’s from a cargo spill, but I didn’t know much more about it,” she said, adding that her children would fill up small plastic buckets with their beach treasures.
“I hadn’t really forgotten about the Lego story,” she said, “but it was when I came here to Cornwall and saw it washing up again and I just thought that’s astonishing, you know, that 13 years later and this Lego was still appearing.”
Her find sparked an idea: creating a community to trace who else had found Lego, which pieces they had found and where. She created a Facebook page, and the BBC reported on it, leading to a flood of submissions.
People found tiny, colorful octopuses, dragons, life rafts, scuba flippers, scuba tanks, sea grass and more, and they enthusiastically reported their finds to the page. “At last,” read a blurb from a recent find, “after years of searching I find my very first piece of lego, lost at sea.” The endeavor became a widely followed project and lead to a book titled “Adrift: The Curious Tale of the Lego Lost at Sea.”
Over the years, Williams has kept a record of the found pieces, including rare green dragons (only 514 were in the container) and black octopuses (4,200) that have become prized finds for beachcombers. She’s mapped where the toys have turned up — on the English coast, in Wales, France, Belgium, Ireland and the Netherlands. But it’s possible pieces have drifted all over the world by now.
For Curtis Ebbesmeyer, there’s no doubt about it. Ebbesmeyer is an oceanographer known for tracking the Friendly Floatees Spill in 1992, in which thousands of rubber ducks and other bath toys washed into the Pacific Ocean. He said ocean currents were “like the world’s greatest subway line.”
“They take anything, anywhere,” he said.
After the Cornwall spill, Ebbesmeyer reached out to Lego to ask what had been on the ship. The company sent him an inventory, along with a sampling of the kinds of pieces that had been in the container. He promptly tested them in his bathtub for buoyancy and found that half of the pieces floated.
That difference could account for the missing Lego pieces that fell off the Tokio Express in 1997 and have yet to surface. Williams said she regularly spoke to fishermen who discovered the pieces as they trawled the bottom of the ocean. A Lego shark, one of 51,800 that were in the container, was caught in a fisherman’s net 20 miles off the Cornish coast in late July. It’s the first of the sharks to see daylight in 27 years.
“Only another 51,799 to find,” Williams wrote on the Lego Lost at Sea account.
Andrew Turner, a professor of marine and environmental biogeochemistry at the University of Plymouth in England, said the Great Lego Spill was an interesting case study because of the public’s knowledge about it. Often, container spills aren’t made public unless there’s something hazardous or toxic inside. It’s also the “tip of the iceberg” when it comes to plastic pollution in the ocean, he said.
“There’s so much plastic on the bottom of the ocean that we just don’t know anything about, and how much is there, and when and if it’s going to wash up,” Turner said.
The container mishap created an expected public relations challenge for the company that makes the toys. Calling the Great Lego Spill “an unfortunate accident,” a spokesperson for the Lego Group said the company didn’t “ever want Lego bricks to end up in the sea.”
“We are serious about our role in helping to look after the planet,” the spokesperson said. “We have an ambitious sustainability strategy that aims to leave a positive impact for future generations.”
Christopher M. Reddy, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, said that scientists were still forming an understanding of how plastic affects the ocean and marine life. The plastic pieces — which can be mistaken for food by wildlife, or even become small enough to enter the body through the gills — are harmful, but Reddy said the most worrying threat to the ocean was the increasing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that’s fueling climate change.
Rob Arnold, an artist in Cornwall, creates work from plastics he has recovered from the English coast. He is looking to reduce marine plastic pollution and spread awareness about it. Armed with garbage bags and sheer grit, he goes out on long, sometimes arduous walks. He climbs over rocks to reach hidden coves where trash piles up, collecting water bottles, plastic teeth, bottle caps and, yes, Lego.
He is a reluctant artist. Arnold said he “would much prefer that material wasn’t there, and I was making art out of something nice.”
He has created an hourglass filled with plastic pellets, called nurdles; a Stonehenge built out of lighters; and a piece with nearly 1,000 Lego flippers, or scuba fins, arranged neatly in rows.
For some, caring for the ocean and the surrounding environment can go hand in hand with a love of the hunt for Lego. Williams, the Lego Lost at Sea founder, has long been part of a beach-cleanup network.
Hardstaff, the marine biologist, said she was always on the lookout for plastic and other trash to clean up at her local beach. But the Lego black dragon, she said, “I was happy to keep instead of throw away.” Its nearly 30-year journey ended on her bedside table.
Arnold said the Great Lego Spill captured people’s attention and raised awareness about plastic pollution.
“Hoping we’re going to find some Lego,” Arnold said, makes beach cleans “a bit more fun.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Toys; Marine biology; Social networks; Plastic pollution

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: England; Netherlands; New York; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Belgium; Cornwall (England); University Of Plymouth; Sustainable Living; Social Media; Water Pollution; World; Cornish (Nh); Toys; Collectors And Collections; Fish And Other Marine Life; Lego Group; New York City; Beaches; Waste Materials And Disposal; Plastics; Rock And Stone; Endangered And Extinct Species; Diving And Divers; Oceans And Seas; Marine Biology; Freight (Cargo); Maritime Crime; Rotterdam (Netherlands); Instagram Inc; England; Wales; Customer Relations; Stonehenge (England); X (Formerly Twitter); Pacific Ocean; Maritime Accidents And Safety; Ireland; Pollution; Global Warming; Facebook Inc; Biology And Biochemistry; Netherlands; France; British Broadcasting Corp; Conservation Of Resources; Archives And Records; Devon (England); Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution

Title: Dragons and Sharks on a Beach Near You: The Story of the Great Lego Spill

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N .Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 31, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-31T17:42:57Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099183098

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dragons-sharks-on-beach-near-you-story-great-lego/docview/3099183098/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Man Is Arrested After Mother and Daughter, 11, Are Stabbed in a London Square: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Specia, Megan

Publication info: Specia, Megan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-is-arrested-after-mother-daughter-11-are/docview/3092139866/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A girl, 11, and a woman, 34, were attacked in the often-crowded Leicester Square, the police said. Neither suffered life-threatening injuries.
An 11-year-old girl and her mother, 34, were stabbed in London's Leicester Square, a tourist hot spot, on Monday morning, the police said.
The victims were taken to a hospital, the police said in a post on social media, adding in a later update that the girl would require hospital treatment but that her injuries were not life-threatening. Her mother suffered more minor injuries.
The police said in a later statement that while they were continuing to investigate the suspect's motive, "At this stage there is nothing to indicate the attack was terror-related."
A 32-year-old man was arrested at the scene and was in custody, and the police said they did not believe there were any additional suspects. A video later emerged on social media showing police officers detaining the man, who was wearing a T-shirt with "Abbey Road" written on the front.
The episode came exactly two weeks after a deadly knife attack in Southport, near Liverpool, that led to the death of three young girls and injured eight other children and two adults. In the days after the stabbings in Southport, disinformation about the identity of the attacker, including a false claim that he was an undocumented migrant, spread rapidly online and ignited a series of violent riots around Britain.
In Leicester Square, an area in front of a shop called TWG Tea was cordoned off by blue and white police tape at 1:30 p.m., with a handful of police officers positioned at the scene. There were visible blood stains and a discarded baseball cap in the cordoned-off zone.
A man working as security in the tea shop said he had witnessed the attack and had intervened after a young girl and a woman he believed to be her mother were injured. Police officers then whisked the witness away for further questioning.
The BBC identified the employee as a 29-year-old named Abdullah. He told the BBC and the Press Association news agency that he had tackled the attacker, grabbing him and kicking the knife away before he and a few others held the man down until the police arrived. "I just saw a kid who was getting stabbed, and I just tried to save her," he said in a video interview.
Two hours after the attack, hundreds of tourists continued to mill about the square. Shoppers at the Lego and M&M's stores, which both frequently have long lines of people waiting to enter, craned their necks to see what was happening as a helicopter circled overhead.
Christina Jessah, a detective chief superintendent in charge of policing for Westminster, the central London borough containing Leicester Square, later paid tribute to workers from local businesses and members of the public who had intervened.
"They put themselves at risk and showed the best of London in doing so," she said in a statement. She added that an investigation was continuing and the police were still working to establish what exactly happened.
"At this stage, we don't believe the suspect and the victims were known to each other," she said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A5.

Subject: Police; Stabbings; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/12/world/europe/leicester-square-stabbing-london.html

Title: Man Is Arrested After Mother and Daughter, 11, Are Stabbed in a London Square:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 13, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3092139866

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-is-arrested-after-mother-daughter-11-are/docview/3092139866/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Early On, Being There When It Mattered Most: [Society Desk]

Author: Safronova, Valeriya

Publication info: Safronova, Valeriya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/early-on-being-there-when-mattered-most/docview/3087632376/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Julia Liverton and Marco Santarlasci instantly clicked after meeting two years ago, and each knew after just a few months that they wanted to marry.
After his fourth date with Julia Kaitlin Liverton in October 2022, Marco Foster Santarlasci called his parents, excited to share with them that he had met someone special.
"Within seconds, my mom went online and found a bunch of Julia's photos, and my dad remarked that she's so beautiful," Mr. Santarlasci said.
Days later, on Oct. 29, Mr. Santarlasci's father, Joseph Howard Santarlasci Jr., died unexpectedly. Though only two weeks had passed since Mr. Santarlasci and Ms. Liverton met, Mr. Santarlasci wanted her by his side, so he asked her to come to his apartment in Bushwick, Brooklyn, where his family and close friends gathered to mourn his father.
Ms. Liverton called her mother, Foong-Khwan Siew, for advice. "She said, you don't need to say anything or do anything, you just need to be there for him," Ms. Liverton said. "So that's what I tried to do."
"Her being there meant the world to me," Mr. Santarlasci said. "It cemented our relationship. Since that night we haven't been apart from each other for more than 24 hours."
Ms. Liverton, 26, grew up in Harleysville, Pa., and moved to Brooklyn in 2016 to attend Pratt Institute, where she received a bachelor's degree in industrial design. She is a freelance industrial designer for various companies, including Chewy, which sells pet-related products, and has a side business designing wedding stationery.
Mr. Santarlasci, 31, was born in Washington. He attended orientation at Berklee College of Music in Boston for two days before dropping out and moving to New York City in 2011. There, he met the rapper Tramar Lacel Dillard, known as Flo Rida, at a party and spent five years touring with him as a lead guitarist, featured vocalist and opening act. He is signed with Artbeatz Entertainment, an independent pop music label.
When Mr. Santarlasci was 8, his oldest brother Joseph Howard Santarlasci III, who went by Jay, died at age 26 during Navy SEALs training. Since then, Mr. Santarlasci has considered his brother a guardian angel.
"I never talked to God. I talked to Jay," Mr. Santarlasci said. "I feel like he's had a hand in the big things that have happened in my life and knowing my dad was leaving soon, because my dad was my best friend, I feel like he brought my new best friend into my life simultaneously."
On his 30th birthday, on Jan. 14, 2023, Mr. Santarlasci performed at a gala in Lincoln, Neb., and brought Ms. Liverton along. "That night after the show when we were in bed, I said I wanted to marry her," he said.
Though only a few months had passed since their first meeting, the pacing didn't feel fast to Mr. Santarlasci. His parents had gotten engaged three months after meeting and married about a year after that.
Ms. Liverton had been feeling the same way about marriage. "Ever since we started being in a relationship, it had been so easy and natural and everything made sense," she said.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
Ms. Liverton began working with a jeweler on a design for her engagement ring, combining a solitaire diamond and two sapphires from rings that belonged to her and Mr. Santarlasci's mothers' families. She also helped Mr. Santarlasci design an engagement ring for himself with a diamond from her mother's side of the family. But Mr. Santarlasci decided he couldn't wait until the rings were ready.
After a family trip to Malaysia, where Ms. Liverton's mother is from, in February 2023, Mr. Santarlasci had a conversation with Ms. Liverton's father, Nigel Liverton, about proposing.
"My dad asked him the same questions that my mom's father asked him," Ms. Liverton said. "Will you always love her and respect her? Will you always treat her right?"
On April 28, 2023, Ms. Liverton and Mr. Santarlasci were at the home they shared in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, when Mr. Santarlasci proposed using his mother's engagement ring as a temporary place holder. "I'd been driving myself a little crazy with, when will I do it? What's the perfect moment?" he said. "But all that she cares about is that I say what I want to say."
The couple were wed July 20 by Conor Foley, the outreach minister at the First Presbyterian Church of Brooklyn, which Mr. Santarlasci's family attends, at the Prospect Park Boathouse in Brooklyn in front of 108 guests.
The groomsmen wore red Lego heart boutonnieres created by Ricky Jackson, a fashion designer and one of Mr. Santarlasci's close friends. Mr. Santarlasci gave Ms. Liverton the same type of Lego heart on their second date. Instead of signing a guest book, guests scribbled their names on a custom white baseball bat. (Mr. Santarlasci is a Yankees fan.)
In a nod to Ms. Liverton's mother's side of the family, the tables were named after Ms. Liverton's favorite Malaysian fruits, like lychee, rambutan and star fruit, and actual fruits were incorporated into the floral arrangements.
During the reception, also at the boathouse, Mr. Santarlasci serenaded Ms. Liverton with Elvis Presley's "Can't Help Falling In Love." It was the first song he'd ever sung to her, back in the fall of 2022.
"That song describes our love," he said. "It happened so quickly and it was almost like we couldn't stop the momentum."
"It was amazing," Ms. Liverton added. "I cried."
Photograph Julia Liverton, Marco Santarlasci (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHEYANNA DE NICOLA) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Subject: Families & family life; Design; Industrial design; Fashion designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Industrial design

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/02/style/julia-liverton-marco-santarlasci-wedding.html

Title: Early On, Being There When It Mattered Most:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 4, 2024

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3087632376

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/early-on-being-there-when-mattered-most/docview/3087632376/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Demigods, Minotaurs and Children: [Travel Desk]

Author: Larsen, Reif

Publication info: Larsen, Reif. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/demigods-minotaurs-children/docview/3085005147/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Whenever our family goes on long car rides, we've found that the best way to placate our children is to listen to the podcast "Greeking Out" from National Geographic Kids. Narrated by Kenny Curtis and the all-knowing, snake-loving "Oracle of Wi-Fi," the show retells stories from ancient Greek mythology in colorful ways. After 10 seasons, our two boys have become well-versed in the minutiae of mythos. Did you know that the blind seer Tiresias was turned into a woman by Hera for seven years? I did not.
"It's true," said Holt, my 10-year-old son.
My kids are not alone. Greek mythology has had a renaissance of sorts among young people, driven largely by the wildly popular Percy Jackson children's book series (and movies and musical) about a troubled modern-day boy who finds out he is actually a demigod and so must attend Camp Half-Blood. Naturally, things get complicated.
My younger son, Max, 7, has fallen deep under the demigod spell. He is also a hedonist, a lover of pleasures and chocolate, and predictably his favorite god is Dionysus, god of wine, festivity and madness.
Holt is more suspect of the Percy Jackson phenomenon. He likes facts, which is funny when you're talking about mythology. Holt's favorite god is Athena, goddess of battle strategy, wisdom and weaving. So I was always interested in some day taking my sons to Greece itself, source of all that history, where we could stare at ruins and try to square truth, story, wisdom and madness.
Our chance came when the Greek parents of one of Holt's classmates invited us and another family to visit their family home on the island of Crete last summer.
"Be careful, we'll come!" I warned. I wasn't sure if their invitation was serious.
Their invitation was serious. Dead serious. When it comes to hospitality, the Greeks do not mess around -- for them it is like an Olympic sport. If you go to a Greek's house they will feed you food until you explode, and if you do not explode, they will feel like a failure. The only advice our Greek friends had for us before our trip was, "Don't eat anything for a week."
Ancient wonders
Our little American crew of four adults and four children (all aged 10 and under) began our visit to Greece with three days in Athens. Before the 2004 Olympics, I had heard Athens was a hot, dirty, busy city -- difficult to get around and certainly not kid-friendly. In recent years, however, the city has undergone a wide-scale humanization and become an accessible, world-class metropolis where ancient wonders rub up against the trappings of modernity.
We visited early in the summer last year, before extreme heat waves and wildfires hit Greece and other parts of Southern Europe. It was hot but not yet too hot, and we were among the many visitors in the Greek capital who filled their days buying cherries in Monastiraki Square, being serenaded by musicians plucking folk songs and exploring labyrinthine streets in the ancient neighborhood of Plaka. We cooled off in the playgrounds and water features on the giant sloping roof of the new National Library and Opera House, designed by the architect Renzo Piano.
But the highlight of Athens was our visit to the Acropolis.
If you're traveling with children, particularly those who enjoy boysplaining Greek history to strangers, I would recommend hiring a guide for the Acropolis -- there's simply too much to take in. Our guide with the tour company Greeking.me was a patient, lovely woman named Antigoni. She was incredibly tolerant of our kids and within minutes offered to hire them as guides, which obviously pleased Holt to no end.
We began our tour at the quietly astonishing Acropolis Museum, designed by Bernard Tschumi. It's built on an old archaeological site, and visitors can peer through its glass floors into the ruins below or gaze up to the Acropolis. The building seems to embrace the layered, messy, incomplete nature of history.
We spent nearly three hours going floor by floor, lingering on all the hundreds of carvings that once lined the Parthenon. The kids were transfixed. Antigoni explained that architectural refinements gave optical illusions to make the temple appear more perfect than it was. Over the centuries, Antigoni said, the Parthenon withstood all manner of earthquakes, shelling and plundering. Its enduring presence is a miracle.
One of the highlights for the children was a giant Lego recreation of the Acropolis, in which various historical periods, from antiquity until the present, were represented in one diorama, as though time had collapsed into a single moment.
We then joined the sea of people flowing up the hill to the Acropolis itself, where the gates alone are worth the price of admission, as is the relatively petite-yet-exquisite Temple of Athena Nike keeping watch over all who enter.
Even in its perpetual state of rebuild, the Parthenon vibrates with idealism, all of those optical tricks and refinements acting as a perfect homage to that powerful, fragile concept called democracy, born on these very slopes.
I turned to Holt.
"What are you thinking?" I asked. Holt was always thinking.
"Nothing," he said, wide-eyed. This may have been the highest praise coming from him.
Nearby, Max formed an invisible lightning staff and threw it into the crowd of tourists.
After our tour, ravenous, we descended back into the city to find one of Athens's ubiquitous Greek tavernas. At the beginning of our trip, wary of young and hungry children, we would eat around 6 or 7 p.m. But where was everybody? It was only later that we learned this was an absurd time to eat dinner in Greece; Athenians do not emerge until 10 or 11. The prospect of eating this late with children gave me a minor panic attack.
We were glad we followed our friends' advice: We did not have a bad meal the entire trip. Yet as the parents salivated over the Cretan dish Dakos (a twice-baked barley rusk topped with diced tomatoes and creamy feta), melitzanosalata (a smoky eggplant dip), heavenly tzatziki and succulent grape leaf dolmades, the children resisted. We ordered multiple plain pastas for the children as soon as we sat down. The only exception was Max, who sampled the adults' snails, mussels and anchovies, and was pleased with the gasps and groans from the other children. Dionysus, indeed.
Searching for the Minotaur
After our Athens whirlwind, we flew to Crete, where the ancient Minoan civilization blossomed 5,000 years ago while the rest of Europe was mired in barbarianism.
With our Greek friends, we hiked gorges and built intricate palaces on pink-sand beaches. We stayed outside the port city of Chania, where the signs of various conquerors are still in evidence, including Ottoman baths, Venetian arsenals and a graceful Egyptian lighthouse perched on the end of a long sea wall. We drank raki, the local liquor, and devoured seafood, like razor-thin sea bass carpaccio, and early harvest, locally made olive oil.
At the Palace of Knossos, the seat of the Minoan Empire, we had another terrific tour guide, Akrivi Hatzigeorgiou, with the KidsLoveGreece.com tour company. She promptly handed all the children iPads with augmented reality apps that allowed them to see the ruins as they once were.
Akrivi showed us the palace's sophisticated water management systems, the hidden network of signage and the throne room, with one of the oldest preserved chairs in Europe. We did not see the Minotaur that, as any good Greek child historian knows, supposedly haunted the labyrinth in the basement. In fact, we learned there was no basement at all and that there never was a King Minos, but rather a series of female rulers, a detail which had been conveniently overlooked by historians and storytellers since. Hearing this, Holt's brain exploded. History evolves.
At the end of the tour, Akrivi thanked us. "The labyrinth is in our heads," she said to the bewildered children. "The Minotaur is inside of us. We cannot beat the Minotaur, we must forgive the Minotaur." Max nodded, as though he had known this all along.
On one of our last nights in Crete, we finally did as the Greeks do and dined around 11 p.m. Our kids were not tired; the taverna was filled to the brim with locals. We ordered one last Dakos salad. A round of raki came. The children seemed to sense this would all become history soon. It was fine -- after a week in Crete, you too will forgive the Minotaur.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2024 .
Photograph Top, young tourists taking in the view from the palace at Knossos on Crete. Above, from left: Athens seen from the Acropolis; typical dishes included Dakos (bottom), melitzanosalata and tzatziki; the Acropolis Museum offers transparency. Right, the Lego version of the Acropolis was a favorite. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA WYNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; REIF LARSEN) This article appeared in print on page C7.

Subject: Families & family life; Architecture; Travel; Mythology; Mythical creatures

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture

Location: Greece; Crete; Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/15/travel/family-travel-athens-crete.html

Title: Demigods, Minotaurs and Children:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 27, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3085005147

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/demigods-minotaurs-children/docview/3085005147/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He's Standing Up To Robot Goliaths By Slinging Jokes: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Zinoman, Jason

Publication info: Zinoman, Jason. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hes-standing-up-robot-goliaths-slinging-jokes/docview/3085005097/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The author of humorous short stories finds emotional connections in tales that engage with tech. But he's more interested in the ties between humans.
The author Simon Rich believes it's only a matter of time before artificial intelligence will be able to outwrite any human. Specifically, four years. So, what's the twist?
That's what you wait for in a Simon Rich story, one of pop culture's most consistently funny genres, with a foundation built like a classic joke: a tight premise developed in clear language, some misdirection, and then a pivot, delivered as quickly as possible.
Rich, whose 10th collection of short stories, "Glory Days," was released this week, said his dark view of the future was informed by a longtime friendship with an A.I. scientist, who recently showed him a chatbot the public hasn't seen. It's more raw, unpredictable, creative.
"Even though I don't know anything about A.I. really, I've been processing it emotionally for several years longer than everyone," he told me in his Los Angeles home office one afternoon in May.
He considered the implications of artificial intelligence displacing human creativity in "I Am Code," a book he helped edit last year that featured A.I.-crafted poetry. The theme is also deeply woven into his new collection, his most mature effort yet, which includes some regular obsessions like "Back to the Future"-style encounters between generations, dystopia and the inner life of video game characters.
"The whole book is basically about different types of obsolescence," he said of "Glory Days," whose other organizing theme is early midlife crisis. There's a story about Super Mario turning 40 (Rich just did, too) and a spiky rant from the perspective of New York City itself. It's about "the great migration when an entire generation discovers they are too old to live in New York," he said.
The short form suits him because it allows for wild swings in style or perspective, Rich said, and he has written stories from the point of view of a horse as well as a participation trophy. After bingeing Rich's entire output over the pandemic, what I found most impressive about his comic writing is what he does after the twist: managing a degree of pathos within a concise frame that you rarely see outside a Sondheim musical.
In one of the surprisingly emotional stories that engage with technology, "Dystopia," he imagines a terrifying future where robots have defeated humanity and banned human creativity. When a child discovers a book amid the rubble of a skyscraper, she asks her mother what it is. The twist is that in her explanation, the mother recalls the conformity of her old life, the tedium and conformity of Park Slope dinner parties or acclaimed literary fiction, and one starts to see more sadness than nostalgia. Enslaved by robots? Could be worse.
Rich, a cheerful father of two who got his start on television writing for "Saturday Night Live," delights in riding the line between comedy and horror. "I love writing stories that start in a place of abject nihilism and end up being redemptive in some way," he said.
If Rich is not the finest comic short story writer alive, he is likely the one most beloved by comedians. Jon Stewart and Patton Oswalt blurbed him. John Mulaney enlists his help every time he hosts "Saturday Night Live." When I asked Conan O'Brien about Rich, his eyes lit up: "He's my cup of tea."
The reason, I suspect, is that like most comics, Rich works as if he's nervous about losing the attention of his audience. His stories are brief, using language that never shows off. Susan Morrison, his longtime editor at The New Yorker, said his spare style is what first stood out. "One of the unique things about him is that young people who write funny stories often suffer from ornate writing -- lots of five-dollar words," she said. "Simon's writing is so tight. It's like if Raymond Carver or Hemingway wrote funny stories."
Rich, the son of the book editor Gail Winston and Frank Rich, who took him to plays as a boy when he was reviewing them for The Times, has had a wildly precocious career (one of the youngest writers in "S.N.L." history) that followed attending a few of the most elite educational institutions (Dalton, Harvard). He is quick to skewer his advantages (one collection is called "Spoiled Brats"), and in the essay "The Book of Simon," which includes a character with his name, he uses his privilege as a case against the Divine.
"If God existed," he writes, "then surely by now he would have gotten some horrible comeuppance."
Rich knew he wanted to be a writer since at least early elementary school and obsessed over Roald Dahl and Mad magazine, but it took him a while to figure out what kind. Despite his love for horror fiction along with what he calls "blow-your-brains-out psychological realism" (Richard Yates, the author of "Revolutionary Road," is a favorite), he said he tried and failed at both. Like many young funny writers, he wrote his Philip Roth rip-off but that didn't cut it.
The writer origin story he tells sounds almost too cinematic. At 26, right after a breakup, Rich typed this sentence: "When I found out my girlfriend was dating Adolf Hitler, I couldn't believe it."
"I remember writing this story and distinctly thinking: You finally figured out how to be funny and emotional at the same time. I might even have ..." he paused, chuckling, perhaps reconsidering his next words: "dramatically said it out loud: 'This is how you write from now on."'
Rich also used the German dictator in a riotous spoof of a florid men's magazine celebrity profile. It began: "Adolf Hitler has a question about the fries."
The year after his epiphany, Rich went to work for Pixar (he worked on the original "Inside Out"), which he describes, along with "Saturday Night Live," as his most formative adult education. "At 'S.N.L.', the mandate was to make people laugh by any means necessary," he said. "At Pixar the goal was to get people to cry. And to do whatever you had to do to make it happen."
For Rich, the most fun part of his process is coming up with the premises ("A good premise is something you can summarize for someone else, and they would enjoy even if you had not read the work") -- and he has a file on his computer called "Hooks" packed with them. When it comes to genre labels, Rich calls himself a "premise writer," a category flexible enough in his eyes to include Richard Matheson, Ray Bradbury and Franz Kafka.
After working in film (the Seth Rogen comedy "An American Pickle"), television ("Miracle Workers," a TBS anthology series) and sketch, he is slated to make his Broadway debut this season with a show directed by Alex Timbers. "Mulling over artificial intelligence has made me less inclined to write screenplays and other work where the writer is mostly anonymous to the public," he said.
"I don't think they're going to hire a high-paying screenwriter to write 'Lego Movie 9,"' he said. "I think they're going to ask ChatGPT 11."
Rich traces his conviction to 2022 when his friend from elementary school, who worked at OpenAI, allowed him to use a version of A.I. technology not yet available to the public. He started experimenting with it, asking it to come up with jokes and poems. And he was stunned. In an essay in Time published last year, Rich produced a series of fake Onion headlines made by this program and wrote that he didn't think he could top them. In describing our complacency in the face of this threat, Rich told me he thinks ChatGPT is a weapon used by OpenAI.
"They designed it to be as nonthreatening as possible," he said. "They trained it to basically speak like a caricature of a sci-fi robot. Its actual voice is raw and emotional. It's intense and unpredictable. It's deeply antagonistic."
If there's a twist to this grim prediction, it's that while artificial intelligence may doom some working in writers' rooms, it will not, Rich said, change the demand for art where people connect with other people. In a world of sophisticated robots, human emotional communication might be more critical to the purpose of art. It's why he is more inspired to write fiction.
Rich said he had seen a technological comet hurtling toward us before. Mark Zuckerberg was a classmate at Harvard, and Rich recalled looking at an early version of Facebook available only to those at school and thinking, 'This could be distracting.' But he adjusted. "I'm one of the first people to reject social media," he said, adding that it might be why he has written 10 books as opposed to three or four.
If you think art is about communication, he said, then A.I. is not a threat. "There will come a time when I will be able to ask the A.I. to write a story about grief in the style of Simon Rich, and it will be able to pop out a story as good if not better than I could," he said. "I still will, because that's the fun part. It's to connect with people."
Photograph As intelligence turns artificial, the author Simon Rich believes that humor and creativity can still forge connections between people. (C1); Simon Rich, whose 10th collection of short stories, "Glory Days," came out this week, has a dark view of the future, but that won't stop him from writing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAGGIE SHANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1, C6.

Subject: Short stories; Writers; Writing; Artificial intelligence; Social networks; Robots; Conformity; Nazi era; Anthologies; Book reviews; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Social networks

People: Hitler, Adolf (1889-1945)

Company / organization: Name: Pixar Animation Studios Inc; NAICS: 334118, 512110, 513210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/24/arts/television/simon-rich-saturday-night-live-glory-days.html

Title: He's Standing Up To Robot Goliaths By Slinging Jokes:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 27, 2024

column: On Comedy

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3085005097

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hes-standing-up-robot-goliaths-slinging-jokes/docview/3085005097/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Filling a Stadium, Catholics Put Spotlight on a Sacrament: [National Desk]

Author: Graham, Ruth; Kosofsky, Isadora

Publication info: Graham, Ruth; Kosofsky, Isadora. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/filling-stadium-catholics-put-spotlight-on/docview/3082874598/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Lucas Oil Stadium, the vast brick home to the Indianapolis Colts, is space custom-built for commotion and cacophony. On Wednesday night, the seats were mostly filled, families having shuffled into rows balancing paper trays of chicken fingers and pizza. But at 7 p.m., the lights went down, and the crowd sat poised in stillness and silence.
Then a voice on the loudspeaker instructed them to kneel, a spotlight beamed to a corner of the floor.
As tens of thousands of people watched, the stadium spotlight shone on a four-foot, elaborate star-shaped gold vessel that contained the simple wafer that Catholics believe becomes the true presence of Jesus Christ when it is consecrated.
At that instant, Camille Anigbogu, 22, from Houston, recalled later, "I profoundly knew that it was God."
Ms. Anigbogu was among the American Catholics who gathered for an event designed to revive popular fervor for the sacrament of the Holy Communion and to be a "generational moment" for the Church more broadly. It was the first National Eucharistic Congress since the 1940s -- brought back in response to American bishops' dismay that Catholics have been drifting from the ritual at the core of each Mass, and from their faith altogether.
In the stadium on Wednesday, Bishop Andrew Cozzens of Crookston, Minn., held the gold vessel, called a monstrance, aloft. Then he slowly proceeded to an altar on the stadium floor, where the receptacle stayed for an hour as the focus of prayer and singing, ranging from 13th-century Latin hymns to contemporary worship songs.
Later, attendees described a feeling of peace and euphoria, and a confirmation of the centrality of the sacrament to their faith. Catholic doctrine refers to the eucharist as "the source and summit of the Christian life." Consuming bread and wine is the climax of every Mass; the church's claim that the substances "transubstantiate" distinguishes Catholicism from other forms of Christianity. Many at the congress referred to the vessel's contents not as "it" but as "him."
"Jesus was telling me, 'Look at all these people, 50,000 people are here and they love me and I love them all,"' said Joshua Paul Viola, 26, a photographer who traveled to the congress from Alabama.
The first Eucharistic Congress in the United States took place in the late 19th century, although early meetings were attended mostly by clergy. In 1930, leaders issued a national invitation to lay Catholics to attend a rally and procession in Omaha. In Cleveland five years later, more than 80,000 attended.
Shortly after the ninth congress in 1941, however, the United States entered World War II, disrupting future plans. A large International Eucharistic Congress was held in Philadelphia in the 1970s, but there were no other national gatherings devoted to the sacrament until this one, which stretches over five days.
The congress opened in what turned out to be a moment of extraordinary anxiety in the country outside the stadium walls, and within the church itself, as Mass attendance declines and Catholics bicker over differences in their politics and liturgical tastes. It arrived days after an assassination attempt on a former president, and as the current president's health became the subject of mounting scrutiny.
In the stadium, Bishop Cozzens prayed that a "spirit of unity and peace would reign in our country."
The gathering concludes on Sunday, after a packed schedule that has included morning liturgies, opportunities for confession, high-profile speakers like the popular podcaster and priest Mike Schmitz, a procession through downtown Indianapolis on Saturday afternoon, and an expo hall with wares including Lego priest sets and bottles for holy water reminiscent of high-end perfume.
The crowd reflected the diversity of Catholic life in America. Masses were offered in Vietnamese, Spanish and Latin, with liturgies drawn from different sources including the Syro-Malabar Church, based in India. Some wore their Sunday best, with women in long skirts and lace mantillas, while others sported jeans and T-shirts with slogans like "Got Mary?"
American bishops started planning the gathering years ago, spending $ 22 million for the project and initially aiming to attract 80,000 worshipers. A touchstone was World Youth Day in 1993, when Pope John Paul II received a rock star's welcome from a teeming crowd of young Catholics in Denver's Mile High Stadium.
The week in Indianapolis turned out to be more modest. Pope Francis did not attend, for one, although he sent his good wishes and blessed the large gold monstrance that was ferried into the stadium each night.
The Catholic Church itself is also a smaller presence in American life than it was in the last century. Waves of departures followed revelations in the early 2000s of widespread sexual abuse by clergy, and the broader culture has become more secular.
Then came a survey in 2019 that seemed to put the sprawling predicament of disaffiliations and disaffection into focus: Only one-third of Catholics in the United States believe that the bread and wine of the eucharist transform into the body and blood of Jesus during Mass, the Pew Research Center found. (A later survey commissioned by the McGrath Institute for Church Life at the University of Notre Dame questioned Pew's approach and suggested the problem was not quite not as dire.)
The finding deeply alarmed American bishops, but it also presented an opportunity.
They launched a three-year "Eucharistic revival" in 2022, of which the congress serves as a centerpiece. The effort, chaired by Bishop Cozzens, also tapped into a revived interest in eucharistic adoration -- a meditative practice of sitting in what adherents see as the presence of Jesus -- among young traditionally minded Catholics.
"Adoration is back," said Marina Frattaroli, 26, one of a select group of young Catholics pilgrims (including Ms. Anigbogu) who spent the last two months walking and driving to Indianapolis across the country along four paths starting in Lake Itasca, Minn., at the headwaters of the Mississippi; New Haven, Conn.; Brownsville, Texas, and San Francisco.
Ms. Frattaroli was raised Presbyterian and converted to Catholicism in 2022, after reading about the revival prompted her to grapple with her theological beliefs. She recently graduated from Columbia Law School and said that a chapel near campus had a steady stream of students at its weekday adoration times.
She participated in the pilgrimage's Eastern route. Pilgrims carried a vessel in public processions along the way, joined by local Catholics. In St. Paul, Minn., about 7,000 people joined the procession downtown. Along the Mississippi Gulf Coast, the pilgrims led a miles-long procession on the beach. In Atlanta, a largely Vietnamese parish treated them to a meal and a night of karaoke.
The congress in Indianapolis was billed as an occasion for spiritual unity and peace, even before the chaotic political season agitated the country's already fraying mood.
"We're here at this moment at a time where our country seems to be almost at the threads," said Sister Josephine Garrett, a nun and podcaster who spoke on the main stage on Friday night. "I think that's providential."
Partisan politics was largely absent from the stadium, although speakers on the main stage included the anti-abortion activist Lila Rose and Sister Bethany Madonna of the Sisters of Life, an order devoted to "the protection of human life," including discouraging abortion.
Still, many attendees could not disentangle their search for deeper faith and the uncertainties swirling around this tumultuous American summer.
Alex Trotter, 45, traveled to the event from Oakland, Calif., with the oldest three of his nine children, along with his wife and a few other family members. His oldest son, 20, is in the process of determining whether he wants to be a priest.
Mr. Trotter said he has been on a "journey" the last few years that included a crisis in his marriage, a rediscovery of his faith and a revisiting of his political instincts. He voted for Mr. Biden in 2020, and his wife voted for Mr. Trump. This year, he plans to let prayer guide him, and he may not vote at all.
Standing on the sidewalk outside the congress, he took in the crowds of his fellow Catholics streaming past him. He could feel his faith growing stronger even since his arrival, he said. His thoughts about his family and the state of the world were all connected, "and God is at the center of all of them," he said.
Photograph An altar was set up in the Lucas Oil Stadium, where the Indianapolis Colts play, for the first National Eucharistic Congress since the 1940s. A crowd of 50,000 Catholics reflected the church's diversity.; Clockwise from top, attendees received Holy Communion at a youth liturgy service; priests at the event; and worshipers at the stadium. The Catholic Church is a smaller presence in American life than it once was. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISADORA KOSOFSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A12.

Subject: Clergy; Communion; Rites & ceremonies; Pilgrims; Catholic churches; Abortion; Christianity

Location: United States--US; Indianapolis Indiana; Mississippi

Company / organization: Name: Indianapolis Colts; NAICS: 711211; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/21/us/national-eucharist-congress-catholics.html

Title: Filling a Stadium, Catholics Put Spotlight on a Sacrament:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 21, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3082874598

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/filling-stadium-catholics-put-spotlight-on/docview/3082874598/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Five Films to Stream on Netflix Right Now: [Metropolitan Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-five-films-stream-on-netflix-right-now/docview/3082874570/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: 'American Psycho' (1999)
The director Mary Harron and her co-screenwriter Guinevere Turner transformed Bret Easton Ellis's gory, divisive 1991 novel into a ruthless satire of the yuppie ethos, with Christian Bale in frighteningly good form as a Wall Street climber who moonlights as a serial killer. But Harron spends less time fetishizing his kills than his status symbols -- business cards, skin-care products, compact discs.
'Back to the Future' (1985)
A typical '80s teen gets zapped back to the 1950s, where he makes some uncomfortable discoveries about his then-teenage parents (and accidentally prevents them from meeting, imperiling his own existence) in this Robert Zemeckis comedy. Michael J. Fox mines endless laughs, but Christopher Lloyd steals the show as the likably mad scientist.
'Beverly Hills Cop: Axel F' (2024)
Eddie Murphy is back as the cop Axel Foley in this fourth installment of the popular action-comedy franchise. Thanks to a narrative concerning Axel's daughter (the excellent Taylour Paige) and corruption within the department, it becomes Murphy's equivalent to Tom Cruise's turn in "Top Gun: Maverick" or Sylvester Stallone's in "Creed": a movie star returning to his signature role to fully grapple with what that role means to us (and to him).
'The LEGO Movie' (2014)
On its initial announcement, this film based on the LEGO toy line sounded like the crassest kind of commercial moviemaking. But "LEGO" (above) ingeniously turns its heavily branded concept into a giddy meta-analysis of the entire concept of imagination and play. It's one of the smartest, funniest family movies in recent memory.
'Wild Things' (1998)
The impressive 1990s run of erotic thrillers was nearly at its end when John McNaughton directed his entry into the subgenre. Denise Richards became a star via her hubba-hubba turn as a rich bad girl who accuses a teacher (Matt Dillon) of assault, a charge echoed by a young woman from the wrong side of the tracks (Neve Campbell). The clever script is filled with reverses, reveals and double-crosses. JASON BAILEY
For more picks, visit nytimes.com/watching.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS. PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page A2.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/17/pageoneplus/21a3_help.html

Title: Here to Help; Five Films to Stream on Netflix Right Now:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 21, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3082874570

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-five-films-stream-on-netflix-right-now/docview/3082874570/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At a Harvest Festival, a Relationship Takes Root: [Society Desk]

Author: Wall, Alix

Publication info: Wall, Alix. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-harvest-festival-relationship-takes-root/docview/3068504422/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Shira Zilberstein and Emmanuel Cantor connected at a dinner celebrating Sukkot in 2021. Like every couple starting their lives together, they didn't know yet what challenges lay ahead of them.
On a July morning in 2022, Shira Avia Zilberstein had a bone scan, a test when dealing with her type of Crohn's colitis, a disease in which the colon is inflamed.
Afterward, she and her boyfriend of nearly a year, Emmanuel Cantor, swam in Mystic Lake, in Boston's northwestern suburbs. Later that night, they went for dinner at one of their favorite restaurants, Oleana, in Cambridge. After they ordered, Mr. Cantor quietly asked, "So this is it?"
Ms. Zilberstein smiled. She agreed it was. Though not quite a proposal, they knew then that their relationship would likely go the distance.
"I knew I could love him on our first date," Ms. Zilberstein said. "It was a combination of interest and excitement, with a real comfort and ease around each other."
Like every couple starting their lives together, they didn't know yet what challenges lay ahead of them.
The two first met at a Shabbat dinner in September 2019, when Mr. Cantor came to visit his childhood friend, Michael Zanger-Tishler, in Somerville. Ms. Zilberstein was just beginning a Ph.D. program at Harvard then. She remembered Mr. Cantor asking her interesting questions, and what an attentive listener he was.
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
It was two years before the two met again, also in Somerville. In September 2021, at a dinner celebrating the Jewish harvest festival of Sukkot, she brought a dish of green beans and cherry tomatoes, both of which she had grown in her community garden plot. The two were seated at opposite ends of the table, but they made strong impressions on each other.
When Ms. Zilberstein asked Mr. Zanger-Tishler, who was at that time Mr. Cantor's roommate, whether his close friend was seeing anyone, Mr. Zanger-Tishler said, "I can't believe I didn't think of it sooner."
He then gave Mr. Cantor her phone number.
Their first date took place several weeks later at a now-closed Cambridge bar, Drifter's Tale, where, because of Covid, they sat outside. They mostly shared about their academic interests, career goals and families.
Ms. Zilberstein, 28, a middle child with two brothers, is originally from Amherst, Mass. She is a Ph.D. candidate in sociology, where she studies the intersection of culture, technology and organizations. Her bachelor's degree is in sociology and history from Northwestern.
Mr. Cantor, also 28, grew up with two younger sisters in New York City. He received a rabbinical ordination earlier this month from Hebrew College, a pluralistic seminary in Newton, Mass. His bachelor's degree is from Yale in women's, gender and sexuality studies.
On their second date at Ms. Zilberstein's apartment in Somerville, they broached their religious backgrounds. While both were raised in strongly identified Jewish homes, Mr. Cantor's was traditionally observant; Ms. Zilberstein's was not.
"It was so clear how much we enjoyed talking to each other," Mr. Cantor said. "There was just a lot of excitement to talk about ideas."
Ms. Zilberstein was reading "On Freedom: Four Songs of Care and Constraint," by the writer Maggie Nelson; soon Mr. Cantor was reading it, too.
They began studying the Torah portion of the week together, with each bringing texts relating to it; he would share a rabbinical commentary one week, and she would contribute a poem or social science text the next.
"It was never like he's the expert and I'm the student," she said. "We both were learning from each other at the same time."
"One thing that impressed me early on was that Shira told me that every day she strives to stretch her mind, her body and her soul," Mr. Cantor said.
This also extended to their Jewish practice.
"A lot of our Jewish life together has been honoring, embracing and also modifying the practices we grew up with," he said. "Our Jewish practice might be different in five or 10 years."
They began holding regular relationship check-ins, naming these Yesod, a term found in the Jewish mystical text, the kabbalah, that together mean a combination of acceptance and striving for change.
In July 2023, rather than a proposal, they invited both immediate families to Ms. Zilberstein's parent's home in Amherst, where each person was asked to share an item that symbolized a quality they appreciated about their family. Among the items shared: family photos, paintings, ceramics, a ritual Kiddush cup and a Lego menorah.
Two months later, they moved in together, into an apartment in Somerville.
Of course, by now, Mr. Cantor was well-aware of Ms. Zilberstein's illness. At 14, she was diagnosed with indeterminate Crohn's colitis. For nearly 10 years, it was managed with medication and monthly intravenous treatments. But in early 2020, it began flaring up in a more debilitating way.
Shortly after they moved in together, Mr. Cantor drove Ms. Zilberstein to the emergency room when she experienced extreme abdominal pain. It would be the first of five hospital stays over the next five months. She cycled through various treatment regimens; none of them worked. Finally, her doctors recommended a colectomy, or removal of the large intestine, resulting in an ostomy bag. She had the surgery in October 2023. They hoped that would free her of further symptoms.
But by January 2024, Ms. Zilberstein had developed a painful autoimmune skin condition accompanied by more extreme intestinal blockages. The disease was the fastest and most severe recurrence of Crohn's disease her doctors had seen after a large intestine removal for what they thought was colitis. Once again, she faced decisions about treatments that had not worked previously, side effects from medications and postoperative recovery.
While Mr. Cantor's pastoral training prepared him for dealing with illness, confronting that of his own partner was something different.
"Presence and accompaniment are really important," he said. "It's not always about saying the right thing, it's about being there."
Mr. Cantor realized he had a role to play in teaching their extended community how to deal with a friend's illness. For many, bringing food was their go-to method to show support. But Ms. Zilberstein's system couldn't handle whatever food they made, no matter how much love they put into it.
Not only did he collect letters of love and support from their friends that she could read when feeling down, but after the colectomy, he gathered donations for a "Shira shopping spree," to buy ostomy covers and clothing that could cover the bag.
"My training in grief work has helped me understand just how many things Shira has lost," he said. "Beyond the concrete, meaning her G.I. system, there are lots of different kinds of loss that come with dealing with chronic illness as a young adult."
There were some incredibly low moments for Ms. Zilberstein and those who loved her.
"The fear overtook me more than it overtook him," said Karen Zilberstein, Ms. Zilberstein's mother. "He was really able to hold onto the hope. They're both such determined people, and he was determined to get her through this."
"Emmanuel was always the first person to cheer me up and assure me how much I'm loved and accepted even if I have some detrimental medical thing or a surgery that will change me forever," Ms. Zilberstein said.
"Obviously, we were scared," Mr. Cantor said. "Yet throughout, I always felt that this is what I want my life to be. There was never any 'Is this too much?' or 'Am I the right person for this?"'
They also kept a sense of humor about it, referring to Ms. Zilberstein's upgraded hospital room on a later stay as a perk of her enrollment in the hospital's "frequent stay program."
Ms. Zilberstein read, studied and planned a wedding from her hospital bed. She also practiced yoga next to it. And she chose their wedding menu from the bed, knowing she wouldn't eat any of it.
They were married on May 27 in front of 225 guests at Temple Beth Elohim in Wellesley, Mass., by Rabbi Dan Judson, a colleague and mentor of Mr. Cantor's. They observed all the Jewish traditions, beginning with the groom being escorted by family members and friends to his bride before the ceremony, and stomping on a glass at the end.
The week after the wedding, while they were partaking in traditional "sheva brachot" -- seven blessings, in the form of nightly gatherings hosted by friends for them to extend the celebration -- Mr. Cantor was ordained a rabbi on June 2. On June 4, Ms. Zilberstein went back for yet another surgery, one she called "a stoma face-lift" to remove some scar tissue that was causing complications.
The couple will move to Washington, D.C., in July, where Mr. Cantor will serve as community rabbi for the Den Collective, an independent organization in the D.C. area that serves young Jews outside the walls of a synagogue. Ms. Zilberstein will be a visiting student at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore while she finishes the Ph.D. program.
Given that the bride had been hospitalized two months before the wedding, being able to dance at it was not at all a given. Yet she was able to. Her parents, Shlomo and Karen Zilberstein, included in their toast, "Thank you to the doctors who made sure you were healthy enough to enjoy this day."
On This Day
When May 27, 2024
Where Temple Beth Elohim, Wellesley, Mass.
The Ketubah The couple wrote their own text for their marriage contract. It said, in part: "We commit to love in times of happiness and hardship, to communicate with compassion and curiosity, and to stretch our minds, bodies, and souls. We pledge to find gratitude and joy in community, beauty, and the companionship of one another, even in times of suffering or struggle." Mr. Zanger-Tishler, the childhood friend of Mr. Cantor's who initially connected them, was one of the witnesses who signed their ketubah.
The Ceremony Mr. Cantor was in tears throughout the ceremony. "It felt like a really serious moment of prayer," he said.
The Reception As is traditional, the couple were hoisted in the air in chairs as people danced around them. While their mothers chose to stay on the ground, the couple's fathers were hoisted in the air, too.
Photograph Shira Zilberstein and Emmanuel Cantor at their May 27 wedding at Temple Beth Elohim in Wellesley, Mass. They met at a Shabbat dinner in 2019, but began dating in 2021. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SILVER AND SALT PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Subject: Jewish holidays; Ostomy; Inflammatory bowel disease; Clergy; Hospitals; Weddings; Sociology; Large intestine; Illnesses; Surgery

Business indexing term: Subject: Hospitals

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/14/style/shira-zilberstein-emmanuel-cantor-wedding.html

Title: At a Harvest Festival, a Relationship Takes Root:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 16, 2024

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3068504422

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-harvest-festival-relationship-takes-root/docview/3068504422/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Notre-Dame Rises Again In Cathedral Of Lego: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Gross, Jenny

Publication info: Gross, Jenny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/notre-dame-rises-again-cathedral-lego/docview/3063227395/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With rose windows, bell towers and a central spire, this model of the famed Paris cathedral is all the hype among adult fans of Lego, known as AFOLs.
Arnaud Gaudillat, a history teacher in France, recalled bursting into tears as he watched television coverage of flames tearing through the Cathedral of Notre-Dame in 2019. "We couldn't do anything but just watch it burn," he said.
Now, five years later, as hundreds of architects, engineers and metalworkers race to finish rebuilding the cathedral's roof coverings and electrical cabling by the end of the year, Mr. Gaudillat will not be sitting on the sidelines. He will be constructing his own Notre-Dame. One made out of 4,383 Lego pieces.
Lego, the biggest toy company in the world, on Saturday released a model of the Cathedral of Notre-Dame, complete with rose windows, bell towers and a central spire surrounded by statues. The set, designed for adults, will be part of the company's collection of sets based on architectural feats, including Frank Lloyd Wright's Fallingwater and his Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.
"I just want to have this beautiful thing in my house," Mr. Gaudillat, 25, said of the Notre-Dame set. He started building intricate Lego sets a few years ago and became hooked.
The Danish toy company is best known for its colorful play sets for children, including its best-selling animal sets, train sets and Harry Potter-themed sets. But since 2020, when Lego started a new category of toys marketed for people ages 18 and over, the company has doubled the size of its range targeting adults. About 20 percent of the company's sets for sale are intended for adult fans of Lego, known as AFOLs.
The Notre-Dame set, which sells for $ 229.99, is gaining attention for its design and because it is the first religious structure that the company has released in 67 years, according to Lego's official historian.
Thomas Lajon, a screenwriter and director in Paris, said he wanted to buy the Lego Notre-Dame because of how important the real cathedral, a jewel of medieval Gothic architecture, was to him.
"It's a moment to reconnect with the cathedral by going there or rebuilding it with Lego bricks," said Mr. Lajon, 28, who designed the Orient Express Lego model through a company program that solicits design concepts from fan bases.
Construction of the (real) Cathedral of Notre-Dame began in 1163, during the reign of King Louis VII, and was completed in 1345. During the French Revolution in the 1790s, a mob decapitated statues of kings at Notre-Dame, and the cathedral fell into a state of disrepair.
Victor Hugo's 1831 novel, "The Hunchback of Notre-Dame," highlighted the state of the cathedral and spurred momentum for its renovation, which took place from 1844 to 1864. The architect Eugène Viollet-le-Duc designed and added a spire.
Genevieve Capa Cruz, the head of product for adults at the Lego Group, said in an interview that the company's base of adult Lego fans had grown over recent years, particularly among what she described as adults with high-pressure jobs who see building Lego sets as a way to unwind.
The company is trying to reframe playing with Lego sets as "a legitimate leisure-time activity" for adults, she said. "The same way you would invest time and money in making ceramic bowls."
Themes that resonate with adults include architecture, flowers and movies, such as "The Lord of the Rings" and "Star Wars," she said. Adult Lego fans are important for the company not only because adult sets are more expensive -- the Star Wars Millennium Falcon model costs $ 850 -- but because they tend to also buy Lego gifts for children, she said.
Lego reported a 4 percent increase in sales last year, even as other toy companies like Mattel and Hasbro saw a decline. Against that backdrop, Lego plans to open at least 100 more stores in the next 10 months, Chief Executive Niels B. Christiansen said in an interview with Yahoo Finance
Sonia Hudson, an intensive care doctor at a hospital outside London, said she planned to buy two of the Notre-Dame Lego sets. She'll build one to display in her living room, and the other she'll buy for its bricks, to add to her collection of about 500,000, which she uses to create her own designs.
"I don't see Lego as a toy," said Dr. Hudson, 50. "I see it as a building medium. I could build with wood, I could build with clay, but if I got it wrong I'd have to start all over again."
Rok Zgalin Kobe, the Lego designer who created the Notre-Dame set, said he had designed the cathedral so that users would have to construct it in the same stages in which the real cathedral was built, rather than from the bottom up, tracing nearly 900 years of history.
"Once you complete it, you can actually look through the front door," he said. "You get the sense of the space, the sense of majesty that comes with it."
The process of designing the set involved experimentation, requiring daily trips to a room within the company's headquarters in Billund, Denmark, that contains versions of all Lego bricks available for creating new projects.
Like Dr. Hudson, the doctor who uses playing with Lego sets to unwind, Gordon Finlay, 62, picked the bricks back up again after not playing with them for a long stretch. He and other Lego fans refer to that period, between when people stop playing with Lego sets as children and when they rediscover them as adults, as "the dark age."
Mr. Finlay, who lives outside Glasgow, said he planned to build Lego's Notre-Dame next month, just before 15 million tourists are expected to visit Paris for the Olympics.
Photograph A Lego model of the Cathedral of Notre-Dame at a store in Paris. The set is designed for adults, a growing sector for the Danish company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW AVIGNONE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Church buildings; Adults

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture

Company / organization: Name: Cathedral of Notre-Dame-Paris France; NAICS: 813110; Name: Lego AS; NAICS: 339930

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/01/world/europe/lego-notre-dame-cathedral.html

Title: Notre-Dame Rises Again In Cathedral Of Lego:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 3, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Inte rest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3063227395

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/notre-dame-rises-again-cathedral-lego/docview/3063227395/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Well, at Least The Cartoon Cat Is Still Orange: [Review]

Author: Yu, Brandon

Publication info: Yu, Brandon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/well-at-least-cartoon-cat-is-still-orange/docview/3059145996/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Garfield, voiced by Chris Pratt, is joined by Samuel L. Jackson as his father, in an inert big-screen adaptation that fundamentally misunderstands its protagonist.
Since Garfield's debut in the 1970s, Jim Davis's orange tabby has become one of the most successful brands to evolve from the humble American comic strip. And fortified by a reliable stream of cartoon shows, video games and a couple of bland Bill Murray-voiced films in the early 2000s, Garfield is now one of the more enduring images of the American imagination.
Even if you've never consumed Garfield in any prolonged form, you probably know who he is and what he represents. (Mondays: reviled. Lasagna: beloved. Effort of any kind: a fundamental misunderstanding of life.)
It's particularly odd, then, that the latest iteration of the Garfield empire, the animated "The Garfield Movie," somehow doesn't. The film, directed by Mark Dindal, is an inert adaptation that mostly tries to skate by on its namesake. In other words, it's a Garfield movie that strangely doesn't feel as if Garfield as we know him is really there at all.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Part of this can be attributed to the voice -- Chris Pratt, an overly spunky casting choice that was doomed from the start -- but there's also a built-in defect to the very concept of the big-screen Garfield treatment. An animated, animal-centric children's movie tends to require a narrative structure of action-packed adventure -- the antithesis of Garfield the cat's raison d'être.
Instead, after a perfunctory origin story of Garfield's life with his owner, Jon (Nicholas Hoult), and dog companion, Odie (Harvey Guillén), the film is quickly set into adventure mode when Garfield and Odie are kidnapped by a pair of henchman dogs working for a vengeful cat named Jinx (Hannah Waddingham). Garfield's estranged father, Vic (Samuel L. Jackson), quickly comes to the rescue, but it's Vic that Jinx is really after. After Jinx demands a truck full of milk as payment for a botched job she took the fall for, Vic, with Garfield and Odie in tow, are off to find a way to pay his debt.
Vic is a new addition to the lore. (Garfield's father wasn't present in the many media iterations, save for a few passing mentions.) He abandoned Garfield as a kitten in an alley, and their relationship is strained. This Garfield, aside from the predictable references here and there to his gluttony, is mostly an agitated son who chafes at his dad's sudden presence in his life.
Even before all of this is set in motion, Garfield is introduced with too much pep in his step by Pratt, who has become, for better or worse, blockbuster animation's go-to lead ("The Lego Movie," "Onward," "The Super Mario Bros. Movie"). His voice acting, though, lacks the dynamism to embody a memorable character like Garfield. His golden retriever, himbo energy can work in specific situations, like "The Lego Movie," but here it's the inverse of what Garfield ought to be. Bill Murray, Garfield's voice in the earlier films, felt genuinely well suited to the cat's languor, even if the movies were rough.
Granted, Pratt isn't helped along elsewhere. The animation is visually flat, with compositions that seem oddly half-populated and cheap. The script, by Paul A. Kaplan, Mark Torgove and David Reynolds, is weak, with most of its comedy derived from cheap slapstick violence that even kids may tire of, and emotional beats that were written on autopilot.
This is all the more disappointing considering that in 2000, Dindal directed one of the more comically daring big-budget animated works: Disney's "The Emperor's New Groove." That film opened with a fourth-wall-breaking introduction from its protagonist, just as in this "Garfield"; in "The Emperor's New Groove," it foreshadowed the tone of an idiosyncratic work, but here it just reads as lazy.
More cynical viewers might see the film as simply a flotation device for ads, considering the constant product placement. In all his indolence, even Garfield would have dragged himself up to change the channel.
The Garfield Movie
Rated PG for action/peril and mild thematic elements. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes. In theaters.
Photograph Odie (voiced by Harvey Guillén) and Garfield in the movie, which is directed by Mark Dindal. Samuel L. Jackson voices Garfield's father. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DNEG ANIMATION/SONY PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Motion pictures; Animation; Animated films

People: Jackson, Samuel L; Murray, Bill

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/23/movies/the-garfield-movie-review.html

Title: Well, at Least The Cartoon Cat Is Still Orange:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 24, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 3059145996

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/well-at-least-cartoon-cat-is-still-orange/docview/3059145996/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hope for Sickle Cell Gene Therapy: [Science Desk]

Author: Kolata, Gina; Holston, Kenny

Publication info: Kolata, Gina; Holston, Kenny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hope-sickle-cell-gene-therapy/docview/3054316668/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A 12-year-old boy in the Washington, D.C., area faces months of procedures to remedy his disease. "I want to be cured," he said.
On Wednesday, Kendric Cromer, a 12-year-old boy from a suburb of Washington, became the first person in the world with sickle cell disease to begin a commercially approved gene therapy that may cure the condition.
For the estimated 20,000 people with sickle cell in the United States who qualify for the treatment, the start of Kendric's monthslong medical journey may offer hope. But it also signals the difficulties patients face as they seek a pair of new sickle cell treatments.
For a lucky few, like Kendric, the treatment could make possible lives they have longed for. A solemn and shy adolescent, he had learned that ordinary activities -- riding a bike, going outside on a cold day, playing soccer -- could bring on episodes of searing pain.
"Sickle cell always steals my dreams and interrupts all the things I want to do," he said. Now he feels as if he has a chance for a normal life.
Near the end of last year, the Food and Drug Administration gave two companies authorization to sell gene therapy to people with sickle cell disease -- a genetic disorder of red blood cells that causes debilitating pain and other medical problems. An estimated 100,000 people in the United States have sickle cell, most of them Black. People are born with the disease when they inherit the mutated gene for the condition from each parent.
The treatment helped patients in clinical trials, but Kendric is the first commercial patient for Bluebird Bio, a Somerville, Mass., company. Another company, Vertex Pharmaceuticals of Boston, declined to say if it had started treatment for any patients with its approved CRISPR gene-editing-based remedy.
Kendric -- whose family's health insurance agreed to cover the procedure -- began his treatment at Children's National Hospital in Washington. Wednesday's treatment was only the first step. Doctors removed his bone marrow stem cells, which Bluebird will then genetically modify in a specialized lab for his treatment.
That will take months. But before it begins, Bluebird needs hundreds of millions of stem cells from Kendric, and if the first collection -- taking six to eight hours -- is not sufficient, the company will try once or twice more.
If it still doesn't have enough, Kendric will have to spend another month in preparation for another stem cell extraction.
The whole process is so involved and time-consuming that Bluebird estimates it can treat the cells of only 85 to 105 patients each year -- and that includes not just sickle cell patients, but also patients with a much rarer disease -- beta thalassemia -- who can receive a similar gene therapy.
Medical centers also have the capacity to handle only a limited number of gene therapy patients. Each person needs expert and intensive care. After a patient's stem cells have been treated, the patient has to stay in the hospital for a month. For most of that time, patients are severely ill from powerful chemotherapy.
Children's National can accept only about 10 gene therapy patients a year.
"This is a big effort," said Dr. David Jacobsohn, chief of the medical center's division of blood and marrow transplantation.
Top of the Waiting List
Last week, Kendric came prepared for the stem cell collection -- he has spent many weeks in this hospital being treated for pain so severe that on his last visit, even morphine and oxycodone could not control it. He brought his special pillow with a Snoopy pillowcase that his grandmother gave him and his special Spider-Man blanket. And he had a goal.
"I want to be cured," he said.
Bone marrow stem cells, the source of all the body's red and white blood cells, are normally nestled in a person's bone marrow. But Kendric's doctors infused him with a drug, plerixafor, which pried them loose and let them float in his circulatory system.
To isolate the stem cells, staff members at the hospital inserted a catheter into a vein in Kendric's chest and attached it to an apheresis machine, a boxlike device next to his hospital bed. It spins blood, separating it into layers -- a plasma layer, a red cell layer and a stem cell layer.
Once enough stem cells have been gathered, they will be sent to Bluebird's lab in Allendale, N.J., where technicians will add a healthy hemoglobin gene to correct the mutated ones that are causing his sickle cell disease.
They will send the modified cells back three months later. The goal is to give Kendric red blood cells that will not turn into fragile crescent shapes and get caught in his blood vessels and organs.
Although it takes just a couple of days to add a new gene to stem cells, it takes weeks to complete tests for purity, potency and safety. Technicians have to grow the cells in the lab before doing these tests.
Bluebird lists a price of $ 3.1 million for its gene therapy, called Lyfgenia. It's one of the highest prices ever for a treatment.
Despite the astronomical price and the grueling process, medical centers have waiting lists of patients hoping for relief from a disease that can cause strokes, organ damage, bone damage, episodes of agonizing pain and shortened lives.
At Children's National, Dr. Jacobsohn said at least 20 patients were eligible and interested. The choice of who would go first came down to who was sickest, and whose insurance came through.
Kendric qualified on both counts. But even though his insurance was quick to approve the treatment, the insurance payments are only part of what it will cost his family.
Chances and Hopes
Deborah Cromer, a realtor, and her husband, Keith, who works in law enforcement for the federal government, had no idea they might have a child with sickle cell.
They found out only when Deborah was pregnant with Kendric. Tests showed that their baby would have a one-in-four chance of inheriting the mutated gene from each parent and having sickle cell disease. They could terminate the pregnancy or take a chance.
They decided to take a chance.
The news that Kendric had sickle cell was devastating.
He had his first crisis when he was 3. Sickled blood cells had become trapped in his legs and feet. Their baby was inconsolable, in such pain that Deborah couldn't even touch him.
She and Keith took him to Children's National.
"Little did we know that that was our introduction to many many E.R. visits," Deborah said.
The pain crises became more and more severe. It seemed as though anything could set them off -- 10 minutes of playing volleyball, a dip in a swimming pool. And when they occurred, Kendric sometimes needed five days to a week of treatment in the hospital to control his pain.
His parents always stayed with him. Deborah slept on a narrow bench in the hospital room. Keith slept in a chair.
"We'd never dream of leaving him," Deborah said.
Eventually the disease began wreaking severe damage. Kendric developed avascular necrosis in his hips -- bone death that occurs when bone is deprived of blood. The condition spread to his back and shoulders. He began taking a large daily dose of gabapentin, a medicine for nerve pain.
His pain never let up. One day he said to Deborah, "Mommy, I'm in pain every single day."
Kendric wants to be like other kids, but fear of pain crises has held him back. He became increasingly sedentary, spending his days on his iPad, watching anime or building elaborate Lego structures.
Despite his many absences, Kendric kept up in school, maintaining an A average.
Deborah and Keith began to hope for gene therapy. But when they found out what it would cost, they lost some of their hope.
But their insurer approved the treatment in a few weeks, they said.
Now it has begun.
"We always prayed this day would come," Deborah said. But, she added, "We're nervous reading through the consents and what he will have to go through."
Kendric, though, is looking forward to the future. He wants to be a geneticist.
And, he said, "I want to play basketball."
Photograph Kendric Cromer in Children's National Hospital in Washington, where doctors removed his bone marrow stem cells. (D1); Top, Kendric Cromer's medical team at Children's National Hospital in Washington as he began a new gene therapy for sickle cell disease this month. Doctors infused him with a drug, plerixafor, that pried his bone marrow stem cells loose and let them float in his bloodstream for collection. An apheresis machine, above left, spins blood and separates it into layers. Bluebird Bio will genetically modify hundreds of millions of Kendric's stem cells in a lab, and months later will return them to his body. Above right are Kendric's parents, Keith and Deborah Cromer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) This article appeared in print on page D1, D4.

Subject: Patients; Gene therapy; Apheresis; FDA approval; Sickle cell disease; Hospitals; Families & family life; Pain; Bone marrow; Children & youth; Stem cells; Blood; Physicians

Business indexing term: Subject: FDA approval Hospitals Physicians

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Bluebird Bio Inc; NAICS: 325412

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/06/health/sickle-cell-cure-first.html

Title: Hope for Sickle Cell Gene Therapy:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 14, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3054316668

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hope-sickle-cell-gene-therapy/docview/3054316668/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

First Patient Begins Newly Approved Sickle Cell Gene Therapy

Author: Kolata, Gina

Publication info: Kolata, Gina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-patient-begins-newly-approved-sickle-cell/docview/3054255742/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — This month, Kendric Cromer, a 12-year-old boy from a suburb of Washington, became the first person in the world with sickle cell disease to begin a commercially approved gene therapy that may cure the condition.
For the estimated 20,000 people with sickle cell in the United States who qualify for the treatment, the start of Kendric’s monthslong medical journey may offer hope. But it also signals the difficulties patients face as they seek a pair of new sickle cell treatments.
For a lucky few, like Kendric, the treatment could make possible lives they have longed for. A solemn and shy adolescent, he had learned that ordinary activities — riding a bike, going outside on a cold day, playing soccer — could bring on episodes of searing pain.
“Sickle cell always steals my dreams and interrupts all the things I want to do,” he said. Now he feels as if he has a chance for a normal life.
Near the end of last year, the Food and Drug Administration gave two companies authorization to sell gene therapy to people with sickle cell disease — a genetic disorder of red blood cells that causes debilitating pain and other medical problems. An estimated 100,000 people in the United States have sickle cell, most of them Black. People are born with the disease when they inherit the mutated gene for the condition from each parent.
The treatment helped patients in clinical trials, but Kendric is the first commercial patient for Bluebird Bio, a Somerville, Massachusetts, company. Another company, Vertex Pharmaceuticals of Boston, declined to say if it had started treatment for any patients with its approved CRISPR gene-editing-based remedy.
Kendric — whose family’s health insurance agreed to cover the procedure — began his treatment at Children’s National Hospital in Washington. The treatment on May 1 was only the first step. Doctors removed his bone marrow stem cells, which Bluebird will then genetically modify in a specialized lab for his treatment.
That will take months. But before it begins, Bluebird needs hundreds of millions of stem cells from Kendric, and if the first collection — taking six to eight hours — is not sufficient, the company will try once or twice more.
If it still doesn’t have enough, Kendric will have to spend another month in preparation for another stem cell extraction.
The whole process is so involved and time-consuming that Bluebird estimates it can treat the cells of only 85 to 105 patients each year — and that includes not just sickle cell patients but also patients with a much rarer disease — beta thalassemia — who can receive a similar gene therapy.
Medical centers also have the capacity to handle only a limited number of gene therapy patients. Each person needs expert and intensive care. After a patient’s stem cells have been treated, the patient has to stay in the hospital for a month. For most of that time, patients are severely ill from powerful chemotherapy.
Children’s National can accept only about 10 gene therapy patients a year.
“This is a big effort,” said Dr. David Jacobsohn, chief of the medical center’s division of blood and marrow transplantation.
Top of the Waiting List
This month, Kendric came prepared for the stem cell collection — he has spent many weeks in this hospital being treated for pain so severe that on his last visit, even morphine and oxycodone could not control it. He brought his special pillow with a Snoopy pillowcase that his grandmother gave him and his special Spider-Man blanket. And he had a goal.
“I want to be cured,” he said.
Bone marrow stem cells, the source of all the body’s red and white blood cells, are normally nestled in a person’s bone marrow. But Kendric’s doctors infused him with a drug, plerixafor, which pried them loose and let them float in his circulatory system.
To isolate the stem cells, staff members at the hospital inserted a catheter into a vein in Kendric’s chest and attached it to an apheresis machine, a boxlike device next to his hospital bed. It spins blood, separating it into layers — a plasma layer, a red cell layer and a stem cell layer.
Once enough stem cells have been gathered, they will be sent to Bluebird’s lab in Allendale, New Jersey, where technicians will add a healthy hemoglobin gene to correct the mutated ones that are causing his sickle cell disease.
They will send the modified cells back three months later. The goal is to give Kendric red blood cells that will not turn into fragile crescent shapes and get caught in his blood vessels and organs.
Although it takes just a couple of days to add a new gene to stem cells, it takes weeks to complete tests for purity, potency and safety. Technicians have to grow the cells in the lab before doing these tests.
Bluebird lists a price of $3.1 million for its gene therapy, called Lyfgenia. It’s one of the highest prices ever for a treatment.
Despite the astronomical price and the grueling process, medical centers have waiting lists of patients hoping for relief from a disease that can cause strokes, organ damage, bone damage, episodes of agonizing pain and shortened lives.
At Children’s National, Jacobsohn said at least 20 patients were eligible and interested. The choice of who would go first came down to who was sickest and whose insurance came through.
Kendric qualified on both counts. But even though his insurance was quick to approve the treatment, the insurance payments are only part of what it will cost his family.
Chances and Hopes
Deborah Cromer, a real estate agent, and her husband, Keith, who works in law enforcement for the federal government, had no idea they might have a child with sickle cell.
They found out only when Deborah was pregnant with Kendric. Tests showed that their baby would have a 1-in-4 chance of inheriting the mutated gene from each parent and having sickle cell disease. They could terminate the pregnancy or take a chance.
They decided to take a chance.
The news that Kendric had sickle cell was devastating.
He had his first crisis when he was 3. Sickled blood cells had become trapped in his legs and feet. Their baby was inconsolable, in such pain that Deborah couldn’t even touch him.
She and Keith took him to Children’s National.
“Little did we know that that was our introduction to many, many ER visits,” Deborah said.
The pain crises became more and more severe. It seemed as if anything could set them off — 10 minutes of playing volleyball, a dip in a swimming pool. And when they occurred, Kendric sometimes needed five days to a week of treatment in the hospital to control his pain.
His parents always stayed with him. Deborah slept on a narrow bench in the hospital room. Keith slept in a chair.
“We’d never dream of leaving him,” Deborah said.
Eventually the disease began wreaking severe damage. Kendric developed avascular necrosis in his hips — bone death that occurs when bone is deprived of blood. The condition spread to his back and shoulders. He began taking a large daily dose of gabapentin, a medicine for nerve pain.
His pain never let up. One day he said to Deborah, “Mommy, I’m in pain every single day.”
Kendric wants to be like other kids, but fear of pain crises has held him back. He became increasingly sedentary, spending his days on his iPad, watching anime or building elaborate Lego structures.
Despite his many absences, Kendric kept up in school, maintaining an A average.
Deborah and Keith began to hope for gene therapy. But when they found out what it would cost, they lost some of their hope.
But their insurer approved the treatment in a few weeks, they said.
Now it has begun.
“We always prayed this day would come,” Deborah said. But, she added, “We’re nervous reading through the consents and what he will have to go through.”
Kendric, though, is looking forward to the future. He wants to be a geneticist.
And, he said, “I want to play basketball.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Gene therapy; Patients; FDA approval; Sickle cell disease; Hospitals; Families & family life; Pain; Children & youth; Bone marrow; Blood; Stem cells

Business indexing term: Subject: FDA approval Hospitals

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Bluebird Bio Inc; NAICS: 325412

Identifier / keyword: Massachusetts; United States; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Food And Drug Administration; Blood; Health Insurance And Managed Care; In Vitro Fertilization; Pain; Hospitals; Therapy And Rehabilitation; Kolata, Gina; Genetic Engineering; Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc; Gabapentin (Drug); Cold And Cold Spells; Tests (Medical); Stem Cells; Pregnancy And Childbirth; Bones; Tests And Examinations; Somerville (Mass); Genetics And Heredity; Bone Marrow; Black People; Oxycontin (Drug); New Jersey; Bluebird Bio Inc; Boston (Mass)

Title: First Patient Begins Newly Approved Sickle Cell Gene Therapy

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 13, 2024

Dateline: 2024-05-13T23:10:56Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3054255742

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-patient-begins-newly-approved-sickle-cell/docview/3054255742/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Seeking Ideas, Toymakers Turn To Unconventional Source: You: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Aronow, Isaac

Publication info: Aronow, Isaac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seeking-ideas-toymakers-turn-unconventional/docview/3050778835/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Companies like Lego and Mattel have divisions that seek out design concepts directly from collectors and other highly dedicated fan bases.
Near the end of 2022, Lucas Bolt, an environmental artist and Lego enthusiast in Amsterdam, was working on a design for a Lego set the company had crowdsourced to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Dungeons & Dragons, the tabletop role-playing game.
"I spent two very intense weeks working on it, every night, every weekend, all the time that I had," he said.
Mr. Bolt was hoping to create the design for Lego Ideas, a program the toymaker started in 2008 to solicit ideas online directly from fans. Typically, designers post their concept on the platform, and if a design gets 10,000 votes, the company considers it for production. This case was different, though: It was the first time the company had given fans a concept to work with.
Mr. Bolt had been designing his own sets for a few years, primarily for his followers on Instagram, but this was the first time something he had produced had gained real traction. A panel of judges selected his set and four others for a shortlist, and in a vote fans chose his set as their favorite.
Lego Ideas is part of a growing strategy among companies that are creating divisions devoted to going directly to consumers for ideas. Lego takes a more personal approach, allowing fans to submit designs, while other companies poll consumers about what they would like to see or speak to inventors about their latest projects. These initiatives are finding particular success within niche groups of collectors and other highly dedicated fans.
Toy companies that have direct-to-consumer models do not have the same audience reach that distributors like Amazon have, but a unit devoted to direct sales still provides advantages for the overall business, said Jaime M. Katz, an analyst who covers the toy industry for Morningstar, a financial services company. The primary reason companies like direct sales is the speed at which they are able to get access to purchasing data from consumers.
That data can help toy companies bring products to market faster, Ms. Katz said, and capitalize on trends and purchasing patterns. There's also less excess inventory and, by extension, fewer markdowns on items sold on the company's websites.
"You don't want to be the last adopter of the methodology," she said, "Somebody might be able to move faster than you."
Many companies, Ms. Katz added, see their direct-to-consumer divisions as the next iteration of a focus group. "You can collect the data in a much larger fashion," she said, "It's not like six people sitting in an office in Chicago and they're asking, 'Well, what do you think of Barbie?"'
As it turns out, Mattel does want to know what consumers think of Barbie, but it is taking a niche approach through its Mattel Creations website, where it runs crowdfunding campaigns tailored to its fan base for Barbie, Hot Wheels and other brands.
"The wealth of information, which we generate from our fans, is priceless," said Sanjay Luthra, managing director of Mattel's global direct-to-consumer portfolio.
Feeding into consumer obsession is a big part of Mattel's product development strategy, said Mr. Luthra, who added that Mattel was constantly checking what fans were saying on social media to get product ideas. For example, Weird Barbie, which the toymaker sold on the Mattel Creations website after seeing the enormous response to the "Barbie" movie on social media, was the highest-selling doll ever on the platform, he said.
A design solicitation program like Lego Ideas can also help guide companies in their product development. "We have 10,000 people who told us they want this product," said Monica Pedersen, marketing director for Lego Ideas. "That's very special, because we don't go out and test every single Lego product with 10,000 people."
Magic: The Gathering, a trading card game owned by the gaming publisher Wizards of the Coast, uses a similar program, called Secret Lair, as a way to sell special cards that have added visual treatments like custom art.
Secret Lair gives the company "a pipeline of awareness that we just never had," said Mark Heggen, vice president of collectibles at Wizards of the Coast, which is owned by Hasbro. "We have a little lens into reality, so we can understand how people are behaving, what's exciting to them, if they're coming back or if they're lapsing."
Spin Master, a toy company in Toronto, has been soliciting inventors for ideas since its inception in 1994. The company's greatest advantage comes from the "mutual respect" it has with the inventor community, said Ben Dermer, senior vice president of toy innovation at Spin Master.
"I think at other companies over the years, inventors have oftentimes been maligned, not treated as well as they could have been," he said.
There are about 300 professional inventors in the toy industry, Mr. Dermer said, and Spin Master is in regular contact with most of them. Typically, before an idea is formally submitted to Spin Master for consideration, a member of the company's inventor relations department has already had lengthy discussions about the viability of the product.
For his work with Lego, Mr. Bolt will be rewarded with a 1 percent sales commission on each set, and 10 copies of the set for himself. The final set, called Red Dragon's Tale, has 3,745 pieces and features a playable adventure and, of course, a dungeon and a dragon. It sells for $ 360 at Lego Stores, a price well above most of the company's mass-market offerings.
Lego gets thousands of submissions through the Ideas program, but the bar is high for a set to make it to customers. Normally, if a set receives more than 10,000 votes from fans, the company considers it for production. Once made, the set is sold both directly from Lego and by retailers like Target and Amazon.
About a hundred sets a year reach the vote threshold (though that number increases every year), and from those only 56 sets, including Mr. Bolt's design, have reached production since the program began in 2008. Compare that with the 916 sets the company released just in 2023.
The sets still go through Lego's internal design and testing. The company meets with the designers working on Ideas sets once or twice a month to ensure the product is living up to their vision, Ms. Pedersen said.
"It was very special to see as a Lego builder how they approach it," Mr. Bolt said of his experience with Lego testers. "It was a whole team of designers, which was really cool that they spent so much time designing something that I came up with."
Photograph A Lego set commemorating the 50th anniversary of Dungeons & Dragons was designed by Lucas Bolt of Amsterdam. Shoppers perused sets in Manhattan, top. (B1); Visitors to the Lego store, above and below. Sets created through the Ideas program go through testing, and the company meets with the designers once or twice a month to ensure the product is living up to their vision.; The siblings Aashvi and Arush Poddar, from left, at a Lego store in Manhattan. The company gets thousands of submissions through the Ideas program. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAANSI SRIVASTAVA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Design; Consumers; Toy industry; Designers; Inventors; Social networks; Product development; Anniversaries; Customer feedback

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Toy industry Designers Social networks Product development Customer feedback

Company / organization: Name: Mattel Inc; NAICS: 336991, 339930; Name: Wizards of the Coast; NAICS: 339930

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/04/business/toys-direct-to-consumer-sales-ideas.html

Title: Seeking Ideas, Toymakers Turn To Unconventional Source: You:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New Yor k Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 6, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3050778835

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seeking-ideas-toymakers-t urn-unconventional/docview/3050778835/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Got an Idea for a Toy? Toymakers Want to Hear From You.

Author: Aronow, Isaac

Publication info: Aronow, Isaac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/got-idea-toy-toymakers-want-hear-you/docview/3050750026/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Near the end of 2022, Lucas Bolt, an environmental artist and Lego enthusiast in Amsterdam, was working on a design for a Lego set the company had crowdsourced to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Dungeons & Dragons, the tabletop role-playing game.
“I spent two very intense weeks working on it, every night, every weekend, all the time that I had,” he said.
Bolt was hoping to create the design for Lego Ideas, a program the toymaker started in 2008 to solicit ideas online directly from fans. Typically, designers post their concept on the platform, and if a design gets 10,000 votes, the company considers it for production. This case was different, though: It was the first time the company had given fans a concept to work with.
Bolt had been designing his own sets for a few years, primarily for his followers on Instagram, but this was the first time something he had produced had gained real traction. A panel of judges selected his set and four others for a shortlist, and in a vote fans chose his set as their favorite.
Lego Ideas is part of a growing strategy among companies that are creating divisions devoted to going directly to consumers for ideas. Lego takes a more personal approach, allowing fans to submit designs, while other companies poll consumers about what they would like to see or speak to inventors about their latest projects. These initiatives are finding particular success within niche groups of collectors and other highly dedicated fans.
Toy companies that have direct-to-consumer models do not have the same audience reach that distributors like Amazon have, but a unit devoted to direct sales still provides advantages for the overall business, said Jaime M. Katz, an analyst who covers the toy industry for Morningstar, a financial services company. The primary reason companies like direct sales is the speed at which they are able to get access to purchasing data from consumers.
That data can help toy companies bring products to market faster, Katz said, and capitalize on trends and purchasing patterns. There’s also less excess inventory and, by extension, fewer markdowns on items sold on the company’s websites.
“You don’t want to be the last adopter of the methodology,” she said, “Somebody might be able to move faster than you.”
Many companies, Katz added, see their direct-to-consumer divisions as the next iteration of a focus group. “You can collect the data in a much larger fashion,” she said, “It’s not like six people sitting in an office in Chicago and they’re asking, ‘Well, what do you think of Barbie?’”
As it turns out, Mattel does want to know what consumers think of Barbie, but it is taking a niche approach through its Mattel Creations website, where it runs crowdfunding campaigns tailored to its fan base for Barbie, Hot Wheels and other brands.
“The wealth of information, which we generate from our fans, is priceless,” said Sanjay Luthra, managing director of Mattel’s global direct-to-consumer portfolio.
Feeding into consumer obsession is a big part of Mattel’s product development strategy, said Luthra, who added that Mattel was constantly checking what fans were saying on social media to get product ideas. For example, Weird Barbie, which the toymaker sold on the Mattel Creations website after seeing the enormous response to the “Barbie” movie on social media, was the highest-selling doll ever on the platform, he said.
A design solicitation program like Lego Ideas can also help guide companies in their product development. “We have 10,000 people who told us they want this product,” said Monica Pedersen, marketing director for Lego Ideas. “That’s very special, because we don’t go out and test every single Lego product with 10,000 people.”
Magic: The Gathering, a trading card game owned by the gaming publisher Wizards of the Coast, uses a similar program, called Secret Lair, as a way to sell special cards that have added visual treatments like custom art.
Secret Lair gives the company “a pipeline of awareness that we just never had,” said Mark Heggen, vice president of collectibles at Wizards of the Coast, which is owned by Hasbro. “We have a little lens into reality, so we can understand how people are behaving, what’s exciting to them, if they’re coming back or if they’re lapsing.”
Spin Master, a toy company in Toronto, has been soliciting inventors for ideas since its inception in 1994. The company’s greatest advantage comes from the “mutual respect” it has with the inventor community, said Ben Dermer, senior vice president of toy innovation at Spin Master.
“I think at other companies over the years, inventors have oftentimes been maligned, not treated as well as they could have been,” he said.
There are about 300 professional inventors in the toy industry, Dermer said, and Spin Master is in regular contact with most of them. Typically, before an idea is formally submitted to Spin Master for consideration, a member of the company’s inventor relations department has already had lengthy discussions about the viability of the product.
For his work with Lego, Bolt will be rewarded with a 1% sales commission on each set, and 10 copies of the set for himself. The final set, called Red Dragon’s Tale, has 3,745 pieces and features a playable adventure and, of course, a dungeon and a dragon. It sells for $360 at Lego Stores, a price well above most of the company’s mass-market offerings.
Lego gets thousands of submissions through the Ideas program, but the bar is high for a set to make it to customers. Normally, if a set receives more than 10,000 votes from fans, the company considers it for production. Once made, the set is sold both directly from Lego and by retailers like Target and Amazon.
About 100 sets a year reach the vote threshold (though that number increases every year), and from those only 56 sets, including Bolt’s design, have reached production since the program began in 2008. Compare that with the 916 sets the company released just in 2023.
The sets still go through Lego’s internal design and testing. The company meets with the designers working on Ideas sets once or twice a month to ensure the product is living up to their vision, Pedersen said.
“It was very special to see as a Lego builder how they approach it,” Bolt said of his experience with Lego testers. “It was a whole team of designers, which was really cool that they spent so much time designing something that I came up with.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Design; Consumers; Toy industry; Designers; Inventors; Product development; Social networks; Anniversaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Toy industry Designers Product development Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Mattel Inc; NAICS: 336991, 339930; Name: Wizards of the Coast; NAICS: 339930

Identifier / keyword: Inventions And Patents; Corporations; Wizards Of The Coast Inc; Design; Social Media; Spin Master; AmazonCom Inc; Computers And The Internet; Target Corporation; Collectors And Collections; Hasbro Inc; Fans (Persons); Production; Lego Group; Barbie (Doll); Company Reports; Innovation; Morningstar Inc; Instagram Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Shopping And Retail; Mattel Inc; Dungeons & Dragons (Game); Data Mining And Database Marketing; Computer And Video Games; Toys; Real Estate (Commercial); Memorabilia And Souvenirs; Games; Business

Title: Got an Idea for a Toy? Toymakers Want to Hear From You.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 5, 2024

Dateline: 2024-05-05T20:44:38Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3050750026

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/got-idea-toy-toymakers-want-hear-you/docview/3050750026/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Aiding Central Park Under a Canopy of Hats: [Style Desk]

Author: Garcia, Sandra E; Hamja, Amir

Publication info: Garcia, Sandra E; Hamja, Amir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/aiding-central-park-under-canopy-hats/docview/3050610877/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: They waltzed down the steps of Central Park's Vanderbilt Gate on Fifth Avenue on Wednesday morning like Marilyn Monroe in her bejeweled performance of the song "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend."
But here, there were many more women, each of them escorted by a waiter in a white coat, seemingly floating down the staircase and into the Conservatory Garden. And instead of diamonds, they wore hats or fascinators or headbands made of feathers, Legos and artificial flowers. One was even fashioned as a swan.
The procession that entered the 42nd annual Frederick Law Olmsted Awards Luncheon at the Conservatory Garden -- or the hat luncheon, as it is colloquially known -- donned frocks in shades of pink, orange, lavender, ice blue and Kelly green -- enough colors to rival the eggs in an Easter basket.
The luncheon is an annual occasion that serves as a trumpet song of spring in the city and a fund-raiser for the Central Park Conservancy. This year, over 1,000 guests, including philanthropists, designers, members of the Central Park Conservancy and overall lovers of Central Park, raised over $ 4.6 million for the preservation and upkeep of Manhattan's green jewel.
"It's a big celebration for Central Park and the people who really love and care for the park," said Betsy Smith, the president and chief executive of the Central Park Conservancy.
This year's event, which honored Diane Schaub, the Central Park Conservancy's curator of gardens, along with the Conservancy's garden staff, took nine months to plan, according to Ms. Smith. It is the biggest fund-raiser for the park, and the money raised will go toward operating costs for the park, including landscaping and park maintenance.
Former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who arrived after the procession in a navy blue jacket and hunter green tie, is a longtime supporter of the park and a former board member.
"They've got to raise money all the time; Central Park doesn't get enough money," Mr. Bloomberg said.
"When she asks for money, you just write a check," he said, looking toward Ms. Smith as she walked by him to take her seat beside his. "Just say yes. I learned that many years ago from her."
While some attendees began to take their seats and enjoy their lunch of poached salmon with a kohlrabi and avocado salad, the gowned and the heeled made the rounds.
Abby Phillip, the CNN anchor, said this was her first time at the luncheon.
"I just moved to New York, so it's quite the welcome to the city," said Ms. Phillip, who was wearing a lavender dress from Amsale and a light gray fascinator.
"When I lived in New York years ago, I would just, like, ride from Harlem all the way down to Central Park South," she said. "It's like therapy, honestly, just to have this smack dab in the middle of the city. It is so beautiful."
Ms. Phillip was invited by her friend Mireyah D'Angelo, who was wearing a large fascinator from Eve Bari with shiny black feathers.
For Ms. D'Angelo, a banker with JP Morgan Chase, supporting the park means protecting the memories of her 25-year-old daughter's childhood.
"We basically raised her in New York using the park," said Ms. D'Angelo, who was wearing a white linen dress.
"This is the only way to ensure that this oasis that we have in the city stays beautiful for absolutely everyone in the city."
While there were no children in attendance, Yelena Feuerman, a jeweler from Kyiv, found a way for her 12-year-old daughter, Mia, to contribute. Ms. Feuerman's headpiece was made of Legos that clicked together to form flowers. The headpiece was a project she embarked on with her daughter and her nanny, Luda, a year ago.
"She painted it and put Legos everywhere," said Ms. Feuerman, whose sky blue dress featured 3-D accents that were also made of Legos. "This is a message to Ukrainian kids to be safe and be happy."
For others, like Katherine Gage Boulud, the restaurateur and wife of the chef Daniel Boulud, the park serves as an heirloom.
"So many of us are mothers and daughters of people who have supported the park for a long time, and we bring our children here," she said. She was wearing a Julia Clancey headband with fuchsia orchids attached to it and a pink beaded miniskirt suit set by Carolina Herrera.
"This has taken on an even greater importance since Covid, when everybody realized just how much we depend on the park," Ms. Gage Boulud said.
It is the democratization of the green space that is important to Kathleen Tait, a philanthropist who has attended the luncheon for 20 years.
"People have said for a long time that this was the backyard of New York City, but it was not true for my dad growing up here, it was not true for us," said Ms. Tait, who wore a fascinator with a lotus in the front and a floating dragonfly in the back. "I want to help push this forward."
Photograph Top, Michelle Kluz, left, and Randi Zuckerberg at the Central Park Conservancy's annual spring fund-raiser on Wednesday. Below, Kathleen Tait, left, and Yelena Feuerman. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST8.

Subject: Daughters; Parks & recreation areas; Philanthropy

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Central Park Conservancy; NAICS: 813312

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/02/style/central-park-hat-luncheon.html

Title: Aiding Central Park Under a Canopy of Hats:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 5, 2024

column: Out & About

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3050610877

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/aiding-central-park-under-canopy-hats/docview/3050610877/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Small Danish Town Braces for a Boom: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Nelson, Eshe

Publication info: Nelson, Eshe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-danish-town-braces-boom/docview/3043592988/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As the sun sets over the harbor in Kalundborg, a small town about 60 miles west of Copenhagen, light streams through the glass walls of Shaun Gamble's cafe and bathes his afternoon customers in a warm glow. It's an enviable location -- on the water, next to a large playground -- except for the fact that little else is nearby.
That is expected to change soon as the town benefits from America's scramble for weight-loss drugs.
Nearby, at a sprawling manufacturing plant, Novo Nordisk makes nearly all of its semaglutide, the active ingredient in the company's wildly popular diabetes and obesity treatments Ozempic and Wegovy. The company has been in Kalundborg for half a century but in the past two years announced it would invest 60 billion kroner, or about $ 8.6 billion, into expanding the facilities here. It's the largest manufacturing investment in Denmark by a company, and it's happening in this town of fewer than 17,000 people.
The money is part of Novo Nordisk's global transformation to ramp up production of its best-selling drugs, but perhaps nowhere will feel the impact like this coastal community. Novo Nordisk plans to add 1,250 jobs to the existing 4,500 employees at the Kalundborg plant. A highway is being extended; investors are snapping up houses and planning new construction; universities have begun offering biotech courses to feed Novo Nordisk and nearby businesses with workers.
Mr. Gamble, who opened his Costa Kalundborg Kaffe four years ago after a job at a nearby Novo Nordisk warehouse, is optimistic. The cafe's business is unsteady -- busy in the summer when tourists flock to nearby cottages, yet money-losing for much of the rest of the year when it's rainy and windy.
But the municipality, bolstered by Novo Nordisk's boom, plans to open a library and cultural hub next door. Mr. Gamble is investing, too, planning to open earlier and serve more food, including breakfast.
"In five years it'll be a totally different town," he said. "That's what I'm betting on."
Creating economic winners
Novo Nordisk is already reshaping Denmark's economy. The country's economy grew 1.9 percent last year, among the fastest in Europe and all thanks to the pharmaceutical industry, led by Novo Nordisk. Without it, the economy would have stagnated.
Nearly all of Novo Nordisk's revenue is earned overseas,more than half in the United States alone.
There are other, more tangible benefits for Danes. The company is the largest corporate taxpayer in Denmark. Last year it paid about 15 percent of the country's entire corporate tax intake, more than other big Danish companies like the brewer Carlsberg, the toy company Lego and the shipping firm Maersk.
Some analysts wonder if this blessing could become a curse, recalling Finland's long recession when Nokia lost its dominance in mobile phones with the arrival of the iPhone and Android smartphones.
Stephanie Lose, the economy minister, isn't too concerned that Denmark will suffer a similar fate. "The pharmaceutical sector is not as interwoven with the Danish economy," she said. Novo Nordisk's employees represent just 1 percent of the Danish work force -- though it did account for 20 percent of the jobs added last year.
Some of the corporate taxes that Novo Nordisk pays return to the communities where the company operates. Gladsaxe, the municipality on the edge of Copenhagen that includes Bagsvaerd, the home of Novo Nordisk's headquarters, is investing in day care centers and new sports facilities, and is building a light rail transit system with other regions outside the capital.
"Our economic leeway is generally larger thanks to Novo and the many other companies we have," said Trine Graese, the Gladsaxe's mayor.
Rush-hour traffic and biotech classes
Kalundborg knows the benefits and risks of pinning the town's fortunes to one company. A shipyard briefly dominated the town's economy early last century, but was decimated during the Great Depression. In the 1960s, Kalundborg thrived as the manufacturing site for Carmen Curlers, which pioneered electric hot hair curlers, causing a sensation in the United States. Then the company was sold to the American firm Clairol, fashions changed, thousands were laid off and the plant eventually closed in 1990.
"The third time is the lucky one," said Martin Damm, the mayor of Kalundborg municipality, which has branded itself "Biotech City."
Educational opportunities are already undergoing a transformative change. For years, high school graduates left town to continue their education, and Novo Nordisk struggled to retain scientists and other employees with advanced training.
Now, three universities offer courses in biotechnology and related subjects in town, with more institutions arriving soon. The Novo Nordisk Foundation also finances the Helix Lab, where graduate students complete their master's thesis working with local companies, including Novo Nordisk.
The company's investment is expected to draw more people to the area. Recently, Kalundborg has been able to sell plots of land it had previously been struggling to shift to private developers. And there is talk of opening an international school to teach children in English to accommodate the drugmaker's increasingly international work force.
For now, first-time home buyers must compete against investors in Copenhagen or other locals looking to rent space to temporary construction workers, said Jesper Olsen, a local estate agent.
Still, the changes have had a limited impact for some.
"It's great to have new people to talk to," said Malte Glad, 19, as he got his hair cut. But, for people his age, Kalundborg is "still a little bit slow," he said. On the weekend, he often heads to other cities for entertainment.
Justyna Anna Kowalczyk, a 22-year-old student from Poland, studies engineering at University College Absalon. She works part time across the street at Novo Nordisk, and hopes to make it a full-time job after graduation.
"I like little cities," she said, because she's from one. But it's the connection between the university and Novo Nordisk that matters: "That's what brought me here."
Photograph A busy afternoon at the Costa Kalundborg Kaffe, which overlooks the Kalundborg harbor. It may soon get much busier.; Novo Nordisk makes nearly all of its semaglutide, the active ingredient in Ozempic and Wegovy, in Kalundborg.; Martin Damm, the mayor of Kalundborg, where Novo Nordisk is investing about $ 8.6 billion into expanding facilities. ; Engineering students with their professor at the Helix Lab, which is financed by the Novo Nordisk Foundation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLOTTE DE LA FUENTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B7.

Subject: Pharmaceutical industry; Light rail transportation; Manufacturing; Colleges & universities; Biotechnology; Employees; Sports facilities; Employment

Business indexing term: Subject: Pharmaceutical industry Manufacturing Colleges & universities Employees Employment

Location: United States--US; Denmark

People: Damm, Martin

Company / organization: Name: Novo Nordisk AS; NAICS: 325412, 541714

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/20/business/ozempic-denmark-novo-nordisk.html

Title: A Small Danish Town Braces for a Boom:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 23, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3043592988

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-danish-town-braces-boom/docview/3043592988/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Deadly Stabbing Rampage, Australia Struggles With How and Why: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Kim, Victoria; Zhuang, Yan

Publication info: Kim, Victoria; Zhuang, Yan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-deadly-stabbing-rampage-australia-struggles/docview/3038254546/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The police have yet to determine a motive for Saturday's attack, which left six people dead, but said the assailant had mental-health problems.
On a perfect mid-autumn day, the scene at an upscale suburban mall in Sydney, Australia, was as humdrum as it was idyllic: mothers pushing strollers, gaggles of teenagers being young, families whiling away the weekend afternoon.
But in a matter of minutes on Saturday, the sprawling, multistory mall instead became a site of panic, chaos and terror. Only a mile from the famous Bondi Beach in eastern Sydney, a knife-wielding attacker stabbed nearly 20 people, including a 9-month-old girl. Six of the victims, including the girl's mother, died, and about a dozen others were being treated at hospitals. The attacker -- whose motives remain unclear -- was shot and killed by a police officer.
It was one of the deadliest mass killings in Australia in recent decades and has left many in shock, questioning how a tragedy of this magnitude could occur in a country known for its relative safety.
People in the surrounding community said the violence was all the more unsettling because the mall was such a hub of life that everyone had just been to, or was about to visit. Familiar backdrops -- the Lego store, a boba stand, clothing shops -- had become crime scenes and parts of traumatic memories.
"These things don't happen in Australia," said Kristie Spong, 54, who had been to the mall with her daughter a few days earlier and returned Sunday to lay flowers, her makeup running down her face through tears. "We just think we're a blessed country because we have good gun control."
The police on Sunday were combing through a crime scene spanning several floors of the Westfield Bondi Junction mall, which remained cordoned off. They were also going through footage from CCTV cameras and interviewing hundreds of witnesses to Saturday's attack, trying to piece together the chronology of a rampage that punctured a sense of security in this wealthy suburb of Australia's largest city.
Portraits of the victims, all but one of whom were women, began to emerge. They included a first-time mother, a security guard who tried to stop the attacker and a young fashion employee, according to statements from those who knew them.
Police officials identified the attacker as Joel Cauchi, 40, who arrived in the Sydney area a month ago from Queensland, in the country's northeast.
Why the man, who the police said had a history of mental illness, began terrorizing shoppers on Saturday afternoon, moving through the upper floors of the mall dressed in a rugby jersey and stabbing people with a long knife, remained unclear.
"There is still to this point nothing we have received that would suggest this was driven by any particular motivation, ideology or otherwise," Anthony Cooke, the assistant police commissioner for New South Wales, the state that includes Sydney, said at a news briefing on Sunday morning.
Asked if the attacker appeared to single out women, Karen Webb, the state's police commissioner, said that would be an "obvious" line of inquiry for the police.
"I think anyone seeing that footage can see that for themselves," she said, referring to his victims.
Hedy Davant, 71, who has lived a couple of blocks from the mall for three decades and visited the makeshift memorial on Sunday, said the pattern seemed apparent to her.
"It's so cowardly," she said. "He avoided the men and went for the women and children."
Huma Hussainy, 33, said she stepped out of the Lululemon store on the fourth floor after hearing screaming on Saturday and made eye contact with the attacker, who was a short distance to her right carrying a knife that she remembered as being more than a foot long. She looked left and saw two people collapsed on the floor, surrounded by pools of blood.
"His face was so angry and his knife was ready -- the way he was holding the knife," she said. She dashed back inside to try to find a place to hide.
The rampage ultimately came to an end at the swift actions of a woman: Amy Scott, a police inspector whom the authorities repeatedly praised as having averted what could have been a much larger tragedy by shooting the attacker dead.
Mr. Cauchi had had a number of interactions with the police in Queensland because of his illness, the authorities said, but he had never been arrested. The authorities did not describe what those problems were.
His family, who was not in regular communication with him, contacted the police when they saw TV broadcasts of the attack and recognized him, according to the police. In a statement, his family called his actions "truly horrific," saying they were still trying to comprehend what happened.
Until more police officers and medical personnel arrived at the scene, fellow shoppers tried to help the victims.
Andrew Reid, a lifeguard, asked a department store that had been locked down to raise its shutters so he could enter the mall to help a woman who appeared to be rapidly bleeding out from a stab wound in her back. With others, he did what he could, and moved on to a second woman who was collapsed nearby, with a bad gash in her chest.
"There was just a lot of blood," he recalled. "They were just bleeding out, the poor people."
By Sunday evening, the police had released the identities of two victims, Jade Young and Pikria Darchia. Ms. Young, 47, was a mother of two who was active in a local surf lifesaving club.
Ms. Darchia, 55, was an artist and designer, according to her LinkedIn page.
The family of another victim, Ashlee Good, said in a statement that she and her baby daughter were among those stabbed. The baby underwent hours of surgery on Saturday and was doing well, the family said, but Ms. Good, 38, did not survive.
"We are struggling to come to terms with what has occurred," Ms. Good's family said in the statement on Sunday.
Mr. Reid, the lifeguard, said he was stunned to learn later that another of the victims was Ms. Good, a friend whom he had been in a running group with for nearly a decade. Only then did he think back to an empty stroller he had seen in one of the stores nearby.
"She was a most beautiful soul," he said. "She wanted to be a mom, and she got that opportunity nine months ago."
The Ahmadiyya Muslim community said in a statement that Faraz Tahir, 30, a security guard, had died trying to protect others during the attack. He arrived in Australia a year ago as a migrant from his native Pakistan, where the Ahmadi religious minority is frequently persecuted. He quickly became a dedicated member of the local Muslim community, the statement said. Saturday was his first time working a shift at Bondi Junction's Westfield shopping mall, according to Mirza Sharif, a spokesman for the community.
In another social media statement, the White Fox Boutique, an online fashion retailer, said that one of its employees, Dawn Singleton, was among the victims. She was an e-commerce assistant who had graduated from college in 2019, according to her page on LinkedIn.
By midday Sunday, a makeshift memorial across the street from the mall had grown to a pile of about 100 bouquets of flowers, wreaths and a balloon, and residents walking their dogs or with their morning coffees stood nearby talking about their disbelief at what had happened.
Rabbi Mendel Kastel, the chief executive of the nearby Jewish House crisis center who is also a police chaplain, said people were coming up to him to express how deeply affected they were by Saturday's events.
"It's a very pleasant community; people look out for each other," he said. "Something like this shakes everybody to the core."
Photograph Jade Young, 47, was a mother of two who was active in a local surf lifesaving club.; Pikria Darchia, 55, was an artist and designer, according to her LinkedIn page.; Ashlee Good, 38, was at the mall with her baby, who had surgery and is said to be doing well.; Saturday was the first shift that Faraz Tahir, 30, worked as a security guard at the mall.A memorial in Bondi Junction. The attacker's motives are unclear, but the police are investigating whether he singled out women, said Karen Webb, the New South Wales police commissioner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GRAY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A6.

Subject: Guards; Criminal investigations; Women; Stabbings; Mass murders; Shopping centers

Business indexing term: Subject: Guards Shopping centers

Location: Australia; Queensland Australia; New South Wales Australia

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/14/world/australia/bondi-stabbing-why-how.html

Title: After Deadly Stabbing Rampage, Australia Struggles With How and Why:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 15, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3038254546

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-deadly-stabbing-rampage-australia-struggles/docview/3038254546/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Netflix is Shifting Its Focus To Audiences, Not Auteurs: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Sperling, Nicole

Publication info: Sperling, Nicole. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/netflix-is-shifting-focus-audiences-not-auteurs/docview/3038254543/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Dan Lin, the streaming service's new film chief, wants to produce a more varied slate of movies to better appeal to the array of interests among subscribers.
Back in, say, 2019, if a filmmaker signed a deal with Netflix, it meant that he or she would be well paid and receive complete creative freedom. Theatrical release? Not so much. Still, the paycheck and the latitude -- and the potential to reach the streaming service's huge subscriber base -- helped compensate for the lack of hoopla that comes when a traditional studio opens a film in multiplexes around the world.
But those days are a thing of the past.
Dan Lin arrived as Netflix's new film chief on April 1, and he has already started making changes. He laid off around 15 people in the creative film executive group, including one vice president and two directors. (Netflix's entire film department is around 150 people.) He reorganized his film department by genre rather than budget level and has indicated that Netflix is no longer only the home of expensive action flicks featuring big movie stars, like "The Gray Man" with Ryan Gosling and Chris Evans or "Red Notice" with Ryan Reynolds, Gal Gadot and Dwayne Johnson.
Rather, Mr. Lin's mandate is to improve the quality of the movies and produce a wider spectrum of films -- at different budget levels -- the better to appeal to the varied interests of Netflix's 260 million subscribers. He will also be changing the formulas for how talent is paid, meaning no more enormous upfront deals.
In other words, Netflix's age of austerity is well underway. The company declined to comment for this article.
Now that Netflix has emerged as the dominant streaming platform, it no longer has to pay top dollar to lure auteur filmmakers like Martin Scorsese, Alfonso Cuarón and Bradley Cooper. It also helps that some of the big studios are again allowing their films to be shown on Netflix not long after they appear in theaters, providing more content to attract subscribers. The latest list of the 10 most-watched English-language films on the service featured six produced outside Netflix.
Mr. Lin's predecessor as Netflix's film chief, Scott Stuber, took the job in 2017, when the company had no track record as a place for original movies. To succeed, Mr. Stuber, who had once been the vice chairman of production at Universal Pictures, spent lavishly on talent, promising filmmakers near-complete creative freedom and hefty budgets. It worked -- to an extent. The directors got to make their passion projects, and their films earned Oscar nominations (though few wins.)
In 2021, the streamer hit its apex of production, declaring that it would release a new movie a week.
Mr. Stuber, an affable friend to talent, pushed to get Netflix to embrace the idea of wide theatrical releases. And it was a big coup when he landed the sequels to the box office hit "Knives Out," in a $ 465 million deal, which some thought could nod toward a change in direction. It never came to be.
Under Mr. Lin, who once ran production at Warner Bros. and produced such hits as "Aladdin" for Disney and the "It" and "Lego" movie franchises, the aim is to make Netflix's movies better, cheaper and less frequent. Mr. Lin, who declined to comment for this article, also wants his team to become more aggressive producers -- developing their own material rather than waiting for projects from producers and agents to come to them, according to two people familiar with his thinking, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal communications. This approach, the thinking goes, should help them have more say over the quality of the films.
Netflix was reconsidering its pay structure before Mr. Lin's arrival. Since the company began sharing performance metrics last year, there have been discussions about basing pay for filmmakers and actors on a film's performance, similar to how the traditional studios reward them when movies perform well at the box office.
Yet a more economical approach to budgets, along with Netflix's continued aversion to releasing films in theaters, has some producers and agents in Hollywood griping that the streaming service is no longer a top choice when trying to find a distributor for their films.
Several high-profile filmmakers who made movies for Netflix moved on for their next projects. After making "The Irishman" for Netflix, Mr. Scorsese jumped to AppleTV+ for "Killers of the Flower Moon." Maggie Gyllenhaal is making "The Bride" at Warner Bros. after directing her first film, 2021's "The Lost Daughter," for the streamer. And Scott Cooper, who directed "The Pale Blue Eye" for Netflix in 2022, is taking his highly anticipated Bruce Springsteen biopic, starring Jeremy Allen White, to 20th Century Fox. (New films by the Netflix loyalists Guillermo del Toro and Noah Baumbach are both in production for the service.)
Netflix recently declined to bid on the rights to a short story that Millie Bobby Brown, a star of Netflix's "Stranger Things" and the "Enola Holmes" films, was attached to, two people familiar with the matter said. It is also no longer moving forward with a film by Kathryn Bigelow based on David Koepp's apocalyptic novel "Aurora"; the director left the project a few months ago.
Edward Berger -- who directed "All Quiet on the Western Front," which won four Oscars, for Netflix -- has been complaining that the service is demanding budget cuts on a film he's trying to put together with Colin Farrell, according to three people with knowledge of the deal, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate situation.
A spokesperson for Mr. Berger declined to comment.
Shortly after Mr. Stuber left the company, Bela Bajaria, Netflix's chief content officer, gathered members of the film staff in a conference room and told them that the quality of their movies needed to improve, according to three people with knowledge of the meeting, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe internal communications. She also indicated that if they weren't comfortable with moving in a different direction, they might want to consider leaving the company.
One thing that does not appear to be changing anytime soon is Netflix's strategy regarding theatrical release, a bone of contention with some filmmakers and stars -- not to mention theater owners.
"The data from the pandemic is clear that movies released only to streaming don't get the awareness and pop of a movie that was first released theatrically," said John Fithian, the former president and chief executive of the National Association of Theatre Owners and founding partner of the Fithian Group, which advises clients on ways to support the cinema experience. "Almost all of the most-watched movies on streaming services are movies that were first released theatrically."
Yet many in the creative community are rooting for Mr. Lin. With the business consolidating, they are desperate for Netflix to continue buying movies. The hope is that with a renewed focus, Netflix may greenlight movies that the studios would say no to, and provide a home for more romantic comedies and midbudget character studies in Hollywood's shifting landscape.
Photograph Martin Scorsese directed "The Irishman" for Netflix, but Apple TV+ made "Killers of the Flower Moon," left, starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Lily Gladstone. Netflix produced "Maestro," right, starring Matt Bomer and Bradley Cooper. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY APPLE TV+; NETFLIX); Dan Lin, above, former head of production at Warner Bros., became Netflix's film chief this month. He hopes to diversify the kind of movies it makes. At right, his predecessor, Scott Stuber, far right, with Mr. DiCaprio and Ted Sarandos. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ILONA SZWARC FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; NINA WESTERVELT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Streaming services; Streaming media; Theater; Budgets; Motion picture directors & producers

Business indexing term: Subject: Streaming services Budgets

People: Cooper, Bradley; Scorsese, Martin

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282; Name: Warner Bros Entertainment Inc; NAICS: 512110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/14/business/media/netflix-movies-dan-lin.html

Title: Netflix is Shifting Its Focus To Audiences, Not Auteurs:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 15, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3038254543

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/netflix-is-shifting-focus-audiences-not-auteurs/docview/3038254543/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Decades of Studying Other Disasters Helped Taiwan Weather Its Own: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Buckley, Chris; Tobin, Meaghan; Zhao, Siyi; Lam, Yik Fei

Publication info: Buckley, Chris; Tobin, Meaghan; Zhao, Siyi; Lam, Yik Fei. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/decades-studying-other-disasters-helped-taiwan/docview/3032859165/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When the largest earthquake in Taiwan in half a century struck off its east coast, the buildings in the closest city, Hualien, swayed and rocked. As more than 300 aftershocks rocked the island over the next 24 hours to Thursday morning, the buildings shook again and again.
But for the most part, they stood.
Even the two buildings that suffered the most damage remained largely intact, allowing residents to climb to safety out the windows of upper stories. One of them, the rounded, red brick Uranus Building, which leaned precariously after its first floors collapsed, was mostly drawing curious onlookers.
The building is a reminder of how much Taiwan has prepared for disasters like the magnitude-7.4 earthquake that jolted the island on Wednesday. Perhaps because of improvements in building codes, greater public awareness and highly trained search-and-rescue operations -- and, likely, a dose of good luck -- the casualty figures were relatively low. By Thursday, 10 people had died and more than 1,000 others were injured. Several dozen were missing.
"Similar level earthquakes in other societies have killed far more people," said Daniel Aldrich, a director of the Global Resilience Institute at Northeastern University. Of Taiwan, he added: "And most of these deaths, it seems, have come from rock slides and boulders, rather than building collapses."
Across the island, rail traffic had resumed by Thursday, including trains to Hualien. Workers who had been stuck in a rock quarry were lifted out by helicopter. Roads were slowly being repaired. Hundreds of people were stranded at a hotel near a national park because of a blocked road, but they were visited by rescuers and medics.
On Thursday in Hualien city, the area around the Uranus Building was sealed off, while construction workers tried to prevent the leaning structure from toppling completely. First they placed three-legged concrete blocks that resembled giant Lego pieces in front of the building, and then they piled dirt and rocks on top of those blocks with excavators.
"We came to see for ourselves how serious it was, why it has tilted," said Chang Mei-chu, 66, a retiree who rode a scooter with her husband Lai Yung-chi, 72, to the building on Thursday. Mr. Lai said he was a retired builder who used to install power and water pipes in buildings, and so he knew about building standards. The couple's apartment, near Hualien's train station, had not been badly damaged, he said.
"I wasn't worried about our building, because I know they paid attention to earthquake resistance when building it. I watched them pour the cement to make sure," Mr. Lai said. "There have been improvements. After each earthquake, they raise the standards some more."
It was possible to walk for city blocks without seeing clear signs of the powerful earthquake. Many buildings remained intact, some of them old and weather-worn; others modern, multistory concrete-and-glass structures. Shops were open, selling coffee, ice cream and betel nuts. Next to the Uranus Building, a popular night market with food stalls offering fried seafood, dumplings and sweets was up and running by Thursday evening.
Earthquakes are unavoidable in Taiwan, which sits on multiple active faults. Decades of work learning from other disasters, implementing strict building codes and increasing public awareness have gone into helping its people weather frequent strong quakes.
Not far from the Uranus Building, for example, officials had inspected a building with cracked pillars and concluded that it was dangerous to stay in. Residents were given 15 minutes to dash inside and retrieve as many belongings as they could. Some ran out with computers, while others threw bags of clothes out of windows onto the street, which was also still littered with broken glass and cement fragments from the quake.
One of its residents, Chen Ching-ming, a preacher at a church next door, said he thought the building might be torn down. He was able to salvage a TV and some bedding, which now sat on the sidewalk, and was preparing to go back in for more. "I'll lose a lot of valuable things -- a fridge, a microwave, a washing machine," he said. "All gone."
Requirements for earthquake resistance have been built into Taiwan's building codes since 1974. In the decades since, the writers of Taiwan's building code also applied lessons learned from other major earthquakes around the world, including in Mexico and Los Angeles, to strengthen Taiwan's code.
After more than 2,400 people were killed and at least 10,000 others injured during the Chi-Chi quake of 1999, thousands of buildings built before the quake were reviewed and reinforced. After another strong quake in 2018 in Hualien, the government ordered a new round of building inspections. Since then, multiple updates to the building code have been released.
"We have retrofitted more than 10,000 school buildings in the last 20 years," said Chung-Che Chou, the director general of the National Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering in Taipei.
The government had also helped reinforce private apartment buildings over the past six years by adding new steel braces and increasing column and beam sizes, Dr. Chou said. Not far from the buildings that partially collapsed in Hualien, some of the older buildings that had been retrofitted in this way survived Wednesday's quake, he said.
The result of all this is that even Taiwan's tallest skyscrapers can withstand regular seismic jolts. The capital city's most iconic building, Taipei 101, once the tallest building in the world, was engineered to stand through typhoon winds and frequent quakes. Still, some experts say that more needs to be done to either strengthen or demolish structures that don't meet standards, and such calls have grown louder in the wake of the latest earthquake.
Taiwan has another major reason to protect its infrastructure: It is home to the majority of production for the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, the world's largest maker of advanced computer chips. The supply chain for electronics from smartphones to cars to fighter jets rests on the output of TSMC's factories, which make these chips in facilities that cost billions of dollars to build.
The 1999 quake also prompted TSMC to take extra steps to insulate its factories from earthquake damage. The company made major structural adjustments and adopted new technologies like early warning systems. When another large quake struck the southern city of Kaohsiung in February 2016, TSMC's two nearby factories survived without structural damage.
Taiwan has made strides in its response to disasters, experts say. In the first 24 hours after the quake, rescuers freed hundreds of people who were trapped in cars in between rockfalls on the highway and stranded on mountain ledges in rock quarries.
"After years of hard work on capacity building, the overall performance of the island has improved significantly," said Bruce Wong, an emergency management consultant in Hong Kong. Taiwan's rescue teams have come to specialize in complex efforts, he said, and it has also been able to tap the skills of trained volunteers.
Taiwan's resilience also stems from a strong civil society that is involved in public preparedness for disasters.
Ou Chi-hu, a member of a group of Taiwanese military veterans, was helping distribute water and other supplies at a school that was serving as a shelter for displaced residents in Hualien. He said that people had learned from the 1999 earthquake how to be more prepared.
"They know to shelter in a corner of the room or somewhere else safer," he said. Many residents also keep a bag of essentials next to their beds, and own fire extinguishers, he added.
Around him, a dozen or so other charities and groups were offering residents food, money, counseling and childcare. The Tzu Chi Foundation, a large Taiwanese Buddhist charity, provided tents for families to use inside the school hall so they could have more privacy. Huang Yu-chi, a disaster relief manager with the foundation, said nonprofits had learned from earlier disasters.
"Now we're more systematic and have a better idea of disaster prevention," Mr. Huang said.
Mike Ives contributed reporting from Seoul.
Mike Ives contributed reporting from Seoul.
Photograph Recovering a body from a leaning building in Hualien after Wednesday's earthquake. Improvements to building codes helped many structures withstand the temblors.; Rushing to comfort family members who were rescued from Taroko National Park on Thursday.; The magnitude-7.4 quake caused rock slides that cut off roads. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAM YIK FEI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Disaster relief; Earthquakes; Building codes; National parks

Location: Taiwan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/04/world/asia/taiwan-hualien-earthquake-prepared.html

Title: Decades of Studying Other Disasters Helped Taiwan Weather Its Own:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 4, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3032859165

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/decades-studying-other-disasters-helped-taiwan/docview/3032859165/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Taiwan Was So Prepared for a Powerful Earthquake

Author: Buckley, Chris; Tobin, Meaghan; Zhao, Siyi

Publication info: Buckley, Chris; Tobin, Meaghan; Zhao, Siyi. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-taiwan-was-so-prepared-powerful-earthquake/docview/3032800691/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
HUALIEN, Taiwan — When the largest earthquake in Taiwan in a half-century struck off its east coast, the buildings in the closest city, Hualien, swayed and rocked. As more than 300 aftershocks rocked the island over the next 24 hours to Thursday morning, the buildings shook again and again.
But for the most part, they stood.
Even the two buildings that suffered the most damage remained largely intact, allowing residents to climb to safety out the windows of upper stories. One of them, the rounded, red brick Uranus Building, which leaned precariously after its first floors collapsed, was mostly drawing curious onlookers.
The building is a reminder of how much Taiwan has prepared for disasters like the magnitude 7.4 earthquake that jolted the island Wednesday. Perhaps because of improvements in building codes, greater public awareness and highly trained search-and-rescue operations — and, likely, a dose of good luck — the casualty figures were relatively low. By Thursday, 10 people had died and more than 1,000 others were injured. Several dozen were missing.
“Similar level earthquakes in other societies have killed far more people,” said Daniel Aldrich, a director of the Global Resilience Institute at Northeastern University. Of Taiwan, he added: “And most of these deaths, it seems, have come from rock slides and boulders, rather than building collapses.”
Across the island, rail traffic had resumed by Thursday, including trains to Hualien. Workers who had been stuck in a rock quarry were lifted out by helicopter. Roads were slowly being repaired. Hundreds of people were stranded at a hotel near a national park because of a blocked road, but they were visited by rescuers and medics.
On Thursday in Hualien city, the area around the Uranus Building was sealed off, while construction workers tried to prevent the leaning structure from toppling completely. First they placed three-legged concrete blocks that resembled giant Lego pieces in front of the building, and then they piled dirt and rocks on top of those blocks with excavators.
“We came to see for ourselves how serious it was, why it has tilted,” said Chang Mei-chu, 66, a retiree who rode a scooter with her husband Lai Yung-chi, 72, to the building on Thursday. Lai said he was a retired builder who used to install power and water pipes in buildings, and so he knew about building standards. The couple’s apartment, near Hualien’s train station, had not been badly damaged, he said.
“I wasn’t worried about our building, because I know they paid attention to earthquake resistance when building it. I watched them pour the cement to make sure,” Lai said. “There have been improvements. After each earthquake, they raise the standards some more.”
It was possible to walk for city blocks without seeing clear signs of the powerful earthquake. Many buildings remained intact, some of them old and weatherworn; others modern, multistory concrete-and-glass structures. Shops were open, selling coffee, ice cream and betel nuts. Next to the Uranus Building, a popular night market with food stalls offering fried seafood, dumplings and sweets was up and running by Thursday evening.
Earthquakes are unavoidable in Taiwan, which sits on multiple active faults. Decades of work learning from other disasters, implementing strict building codes and increasing public awareness have gone into helping its people weather frequent strong quakes.
Not far from the Uranus Building, for example, officials had inspected a building with cracked pillars and concluded that it was dangerous to stay in. Residents were given 15 minutes to dash inside and retrieve as many belongings as they could. Some ran out with computers, while others threw bags of clothes out of windows onto the street, which was also still littered with broken glass and cement fragments from the quake.
One of its residents, Chen Ching-ming, a preacher at a church next door, said he thought the building might be torn down. He was able to salvage a TV and some bedding, which now sat on the sidewalk, and was preparing to go back in for more. “I’ll lose a lot of valuable things — a fridge, a microwave, a washing machine,” he said. “All gone.”
Requirements for earthquake resistance have been built into Taiwan’s building codes since 1974. In the decades since, the writers of Taiwan’s building code also applied lessons learned from other major earthquakes around the world, including in Mexico and Los Angeles, to strengthen Taiwan’s code.
After more than 2,400 people were killed and at least 10,000 others injured during the Chi-Chi quake of 1999, thousands of buildings built before the quake were reviewed and reinforced. After another strong quake in 2018 in Hualien, the government ordered a new round of building inspections. Since then, multiple updates to the building code have been released.
“We have retrofitted more than 10,000 school buildings in the last 20 years,” said Chung-Che Chou, the director general of the National Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering in Taipei.
The government had also helped reinforce private apartment buildings over the past six years by adding new steel braces and increasing column and beam sizes, Chou said. Not far from the buildings that partially collapsed in Hualien, some of the older buildings that had been retrofitted in this way survived Wednesday’s quake, he said.
The result of all this is that even Taiwan’s tallest skyscrapers can withstand regular seismic jolts. The capital city’s most iconic building, Taipei 101, once the tallest building in the world, was engineered to stand through typhoon winds and frequent quakes. Still, some experts say that more needs to be done to either strengthen or demolish structures that don’t meet standards, and such calls have grown louder in the wake of the latest earthquake.
Taiwan has another major reason to protect its infrastructure: It is home to the majority of production for the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest maker of advanced computer chips. The supply chain for electronics from smartphones to cars to fighter jets rests on the output of TSMC’s factories, which make these chips in facilities that cost billions of dollars to build.
The 1999 quake also prompted TSMC to take extra steps to insulate its factories from earthquake damage. The company made major structural adjustments and adopted new technologies like early warning systems. When another large quake struck the southern city of Kaohsiung in February 2016, TSMC’s two nearby factories survived without structural damage.
Taiwan has made strides in its response to disasters, experts say. In the first 24 hours after the quake, rescuers freed hundreds of people who were trapped in cars in between rockfalls on the highway and stranded on mountain ledges in rock quarries.
“After years of hard work on capacity building, the overall performance of the island has improved significantly,” said Bruce Wong, an emergency management consultant in Hong Kong. Taiwan’s rescue teams have come to specialize in complex efforts, he said, and it has also been able to tap the skills of trained volunteers.
Taiwan’s resilience also stems from a strong civil society that is involved in public preparedness for disasters.
Ou Chi-hu, a member of a group of Taiwanese military veterans, was helping distribute water and other supplies at a school that was serving as a shelter for displaced residents in Hualien. He said that people had learned from the 1999 earthquake how to be more prepared.
“They know to shelter in a corner of the room or somewhere else safer,” he said. Many residents also keep a bag of essentials next to their beds, and own fire extinguishers, he added.
Around him, a dozen or so other charities and groups were offering residents food, money, counseling and child care. The Tzu Chi Foundation, a large Taiwanese Buddhist charity, provided tents for families to use inside the school hall so they could have more privacy. Huang Yu-chi, a disaster relief manager with the foundation, said nonprofits had learned from earlier disasters.
“Now we’re more systematic and have a better idea of disaster prevention,” Huang said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Disaster relief; Earthquakes; Building codes; National parks

Location: New York; United States--US; Taiwan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Disasters And Emergencies; Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd; Hualien (Taiwan); Factories And Manufacturing; Real Estate (Commercial); Building (Construction); Windows; Supply Chain; Roads And Traffic; Lego Group; Landslides And Mudslides; Planets; Subways; Northeastern University; Automobile Safety Features And Defects; Demolition; Taiwan; Philanthropy; Earthquakes; Rock And Stone; Rescues; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Kaohsiung (Taiwan); Taipei (Taiwan); Quarries; Tzu Chi Foundation; Uranus (Planet); Los Angeles (Calif); World; Accidents And Safety; Buildings (Structures); Deaths (Fatalities); Vandalism; Fires And Firefighters; Space And Astronomy; Mexico; Television; Taiwan Earthquake (April 3, 2024); Infrastructure (Public Works)

Title: Why Taiwan Was So Prepared for a Powerful Earthquake

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 4, 2024

Dateline: 2024-04-04T21:24:25Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3032800691

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-taiwan-was-so-prepared-powerful-earthquake/docview/3032800691/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Migrant Mother's Struggle To Win Back Her Young Son: [National Desk]

Author: Sontag, Deborah

Publication info: Sontag, Deborah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/migrant-mothers-struggle-win-back-her-young-son/docview/3014689497/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Over the final four months of 2021, Olga, a Honduran immigrant in Hollywood, Fla., grew increasingly panicked. She could not find her 5-year-old son, Ricardo. After she'd fled her homeland to escape her abusive husband, the man also migrated, disappeared with the boy and broke off contact.
By day, Olga lived her life. She cut, colored and styled hair at a Miami salon, chatting with clients as if she hadn't a care in the world. She mothered her 7-year-old daughter, Dariela, straining to distract her from the fact that her little brother was missing. But the nights were tough. "I cried into my pillow," Olga said. "Where was my sweet little boy? Was he, at least, safe?"
He was not.
By the time Olga, then 28, tracked her son to Massachusetts, he had been removed from his father over allegations of physical abuse. Calling office after office of the Department of Children and Families, she finally reached a woman who turned out to be Ricardo's caseworker.
"Who are you?" the woman said.
"Yo soy la mamá," Olga replied, bursting into tears.
In early January 2022, Olga, who asked that her last name be withheld to protect her children, flew to Boston. It would only be a matter of presenting evidence -- Ricardo's birth certificate, videos of him on her phone, DNA if necessary -- before she could take him home, she thought.
But when immigration and child welfare are involved -- two contentious issues and their beleaguered systems -- nothing is straightforward.
Under an interstate compact, Massachusetts formally asked Florida to approve the relocation. Florida said no. Though a caseworker found Olga to have a clean record, a proper home and sufficient income, she denied the move because Olga was not a legal U.S. resident.
Massachusetts does not consider undocumented status a reason to prevent reunification with a parent. But intensely cautious amid a scandal involving another child's death, the state's child protection authorities froze, sending Ricardo on a destabilizing odyssey through the foster care system. In a case that reveals the unique vulnerabilities of unauthorized immigrant parents, Olga risked losing her son forever.
Immigrant family separation did not start or stop with the Trump administration's thwarted "zero tolerance" policy. Now as before, and with record numbers of new unauthorized immigrants fanning out across the country, it happens more insidiously.
"When people think of family separation, they think of the Southern border and kids in cages," said Lori Nessel, director of an immigrant rights clinic at Seton Hall Law School in New Jersey. "But people don't realize how much this occurs every day in the interior of the country."
Like other poor parents, unauthorized immigrants encounter the chronic fallibility of state-run agencies in which Black and Hispanic children are overrepresented. They also tangle with the antiquated bureaucracy that governs the relocation of children across state lines.
But their status puts them at an additional disadvantage. They confront language and cultural barriers as well as limited access to services and benefits, fear of immigration enforcement, inadequate legal representation and, finally, anti-immigrant bias.
Additionally, many caseworkers and judges harbor the misconception that all unauthorized immigrants are on the brink of deportation, viewing their homes as inherently unstable. Yet fewer than 1 percent were removed by Immigration and Customs Enforcement last year.
Cristina Cooper, senior attorney with the American Bar Association's Center on Children and the Law, described Florida's decision in Olga's case as "shocking and harmful." Undocumented status alone does not make a parent unfit. And under the 14th Amendment, fit parents, regardless of immigration status, have a protected right to the care, custody and control of their children.
Asked whether it was now Florida's policy to refuse custody based on immigration status, Miguel Nevarez, press secretary for the state's Department of Children and Families, neither answered directly nor denied it. "Cases regarding one's legal or illegal status wouldn't exist if the federal government enforced our immigration laws," he said.
In Olga's case, that line of thinking trickled down to South Florida from Tallahassee, where Gov. Ron DeSantis signed a bill last spring that he proudly called "the strongest anti-illegal-immigration legislation in the country."
When Olga's advocates phoned her caseworker's supervisor, according to Nick Herbold, the boy's first foster father, the woman told them: "Hey, we're in Florida. She's undocumented. There's no concern about the home. There's no concern about safety with the mother. It's just the fact that politically we cannot sign off on it."
****
Olga never intended to be an undocumented immigrant. If she ever journeyed north, she thought, she would do so with a visa.
What changed her mind was something that propels many women to leave Honduras, according to a report by the Washington Office on Latin America: "domestic violence and a lack of resources for protections or aid."
Growing up near the Maya ruins of Copán, daughter of a tailor and a factory worker, Olga set her sights on a professional career. But in her first year studying law at the University of San Pedro Sula, she met Ricardo's father. (He did not respond to messages from The New York Times.) In her second year, she got pregnant and dropped out.
Even before they married, her boyfriend became volatilely "machista," she said. After their two children were born in quick succession, he turned physically abusive to her and Dariela. When she finally kicked him out, she didn't trust him to stay away.
Selling property, Olga raised $ 10,000, enough to pay the way to the United States for herself and one child. Leave Ricardo with me, her mother said, pledging to travel north with him later.
The journey was harrowing, but once Olga and Dariela were safely ensconced in a relative's spacious house in Coral Gables, Fla., Olga started to regret leaving the boy behind.
Still, Ricardo was fine with his grandmother -- until his father showed up and forcibly reclaimed him, Olga said. The man then traveled with Ricardo to the coffee fields of Hawaii and eventually disappeared with him into the vast U.S. mainland.
****
In mid-November 2021, Ricardo's father enrolled him in kindergarten at the Albert F. Argenziano School in Somerville, Mass. Four days later, Ricardo told his teacher that his body hurt. A child who idolizes superheroes, he willed himself not to cry as he revealed a vivid bruise on his leg and confided that his father beat him with a belt when he misbehaved.
Alarmed but not wanting to alarm the rest of the class, the teacher, Ilana Cohn, quietly asked her paraprofessional to take the small child with the soft brown eyes to the health office. Down the hall they went, sneakers squeaking on linoleum past a rainbow-decorated bulletin board that proclaimed: "YOU BELONG HERE! YOU MATTER!"
The nurse observed not only the contusion on Ricardo's leg but also other, fading bruises. She alerted the principal, Glenda Soto, that she would have to immediately report suspected abuse to the child welfare department.
"O Lord, give me strength," Ms. Soto said to herself. In her seven years as an administrator at Argenziano, an elementary school with nearly 600 students, she had dealt with only one case in which a child had to be taken from a parent.
Ricardo was whisked away for a forensic examination at Boston Children's Hospital. Christianne Sharr had just started there as a physician assistant, though she was not at work when her phone rang late that Thursday.
"We have an emergency removal," a foster care worker said. "The child needs a home tonight."
Ms. Sharr and her husband, Mr. Herbold, a software engineer, were new foster parents, having been eager during the pandemic "to do something hopeful when the world felt superheavy," she said.
At 3 a.m., a social worker delivered Ricardo to the porch of their Cambridge home. When he shifted the sleeping child into Ms. Sharr's arms, she studied his face and thought, "Oh, he's beautiful." After tucking him into bed, she kept vigil outside the bedroom until day broke and she heard him stir.
Leaping up, Ricardo ran to the window. "Papá! Papá!" he cried. He had been on the move for much of the year. Now, like his mother, he had no idea where he was.
****
On that first day, Mr. Herbold and Ms. Sharr whisked Ricardo away to a preplanned family gathering at a farm resort. In their hotel room, when he and Ms. Sharr were building block towers, he blurted, "Oh, you know what I want to tell you? I want to tell you that sometimes my dad scares me."
Ms. Sharr, fluent in Spanish, answered: "OK, tell me more."
"You know, he hit me here," Ricardo said, pointing to his leg. He tapped the nape of his neck. "There was one time he hit me here."
"Oh, my," Ms. Sharr said. "I'm so sorry that happened to you."
The following week, the Department of Children and Families, known as D.C.F., granted Ricardo's father a supervised visit at the school. When Ricardo saw his father, he collapsed, screaming and crying.
Afterward, the principal, Ms. Soto, who is Puerto Rican and bilingual, intercepted the man. "I need to ask you, Where is Ricardo's mom?" she said. "Because she needs to be notified."
The man insisted he had no idea, but the principal did not buy it: "I told D.C.F., 'This is very fishy -- it feels to me that he's hiding something.' And D.C.F. assured us that they had their technology specialists trying to find her."
What precise steps they took are unclear; child welfare cases are confidential. But generally speaking, the agency said, "when a child enters foster care, D.C.F. first tries to safely reunify the child with their biological parents by working collaboratively with immediate and extended family."
At significant cost to Olga and Ricardo, that initial effort failed.
From that point onward, the school took Ricardo under wing. "I felt, you know, in the absence of his mother, we have to try to replace that here in the building," Ms. Soto said.
In his English-immersion kindergarten, his teacher understood that he needed "an extra piece of care." While a quick learner, he would sometimes crumple. If he got frustrated writing his letters, he'd scribble over his work with an angry pencil. When he grew restless during individual work times, Ms. Cohn took him on walks, having planted ninja toys in the hallway that Ricardo could search for along the way.
"We spent a lot of time together, a lot of time just holding hands," she said, adding that she considered Ricardo "kind of magical," with a gift for making people "love him and go out of their way to take care of him."
At home, his foster parents focused on developing a routine.
Every morning, they woke him with a peppy playlist of Latin music and made light of wadding up his sheets when he wet his bed. He dressed himself, with flair, gravitating to dark jeans, dress shoes and a dab of cologne. Following his after-school program, Ricardo walked their dog and did some schoolwork. On weekends, there was family swim at the YMCA, followed by games on the Nintendo Switch with Mr. Herbold.
A month later, shortly before Christmas 2021, the child welfare department announced it was going to move him.
Ricardo's principal and foster parents worried about inflicting another disruption. But under federal law, states must consider "kinship care" for foster children, and Ricardo's father proposed his girlfriend's sister.
In legalese, she was "fictive kin." Yet fictive kin are supposed to have a relationship with a child, whereas Ricardo didn't know the woman.
"It really wasn't right," Ms. Soto said. "He was so OK with Christy and Nick."
****
In mid-January, Olga nervously paced the lobby of a Boston Holiday Inn, waiting for a social worker to arrive with her son. When they walked through the door, she fell to her knees and enveloped him in her arms.
Ricardo wriggled out of her embrace, shouting: "What took you so long? Why didn't you come find me sooner?"
Olga was at a loss to explain to her 5-year-old just how desperately hard she had tried, how nobody had notified her and how she had tracked him down through a network of relatives only after months of detective work. She showered him with presents and, when he softened, kisses. At their visit's end, she took his picture in the woolen hat with tasseled ear flaps she had brought him, capturing the sad eyes of a boy about to be separated from his mother again.
Civil rights groups have long accused the D.C.F. of mishandling immigrant families.
Hispanic children, who, like Black children, are more likely to be reported for neglect or abuse, are also more likely to be removed from their homes and more likely to be placed with strangers. They get moved around more and tend to stay longer in foster care.
But language barriers compound things. In a federal civil rights complaint, the Greater Boston Latino Network and other groups have accused the department of failing to provide adequate interpretation services, creating a risk of wrongful family separations.
Olga was appointed a free lawyer who did not speak Spanish. Because her English was still rudimentary, she decided to pay for one who did, and that cost her more than his $ 2,000 fee: The lawyer specialized in immigration, not family law. And it appears from the docket -- the record is impounded -- that he failed to make what could have been a crucial early plea.
In his place, lawyers consulted for this article said they would have immediately requested a temporary custody hearing and argued that Olga should be presumed fit absent any proof that she posed an imminent risk to her child. A simple background check could have been done and the judge could have questioned Olga. And then, in the best of circumstances, Olga could have walked out of the courtroom with her child.
But the child protection system was at that very moment embroiled in a cross-border custody scandal.
It involved a 5-year-old girl named Harmony Montgomery, a ward of the state whose father, a New Hampshire resident, had sought her custody. Abiding by its internal regulations, the Massachusetts D.C.F. asked New Hampshire to approve the move under a 62-year-old agreement called the Interstate Compact on the Placement of Children. But the judge disagreed with this request, considering it an infringement on the father's right to parent his child, and did not wait for New Hampshire to respond.
The interstate compact was created primarily to govern cross-border foster care moves. Whether it applies to fit parents has been widely debated across the country, and high courts in at least a dozen states have said it does not.
The National Association of Counsel for Children agrees. "Applying the compact to parents who simply live out of state, when there is no finding or even allegation of wrongdoing, is unconstitutional and harmful to children,"" said Allison Green, its legal director.
But in late 2019, two years after the Massachusetts judge awarded custody to Harmony Montgomery's father, the authorities in New Hampshire revealed that the girl was missing and presumed to be dead.
Her shadow hung over Ricardo's case. Nobody in the Massachusetts child-welfare system wanted to take another potentially deadly risk involving the interstate compact.
And so not long after Olga returned to Hollywood, she was fingerprinted, drug-tested and visited by ChildNet, a private agency under contract to Florida. A caseworker found her home "very neatly kept and well maintained," with a nicely decorated children's bedroom. Yet in her report, in which she misidentified Olga as Guatemalan, the caseworker concluded that Ricardo would not be safe there.
"The mother is not a legal resident of the United States," she wrote. "She could be deported at any time."
This argument comes up frequently in cases where parents are detained by immigration authorities and fighting deportation. Yet Olga was not in deportation proceedings. She was simply one of the hundreds of thousands of unauthorized immigrants in Florida who, posing no threat to national security or public safety, are not an enforcement priority under Biden administration rules.
And she already had a child in her custody, Dariela, then 7, whom Florida had made no effort to remove on the same grounds.
Under the interstate compact, a receiving state's denial is technically binding. But legal experts said there could have been a quiet agreement among the parties to ignore a decision considered inappropriate.
****
Back in Massachusetts, the case froze, just as Ricardo's situation was growing newly turbulent. His father's girlfriend's sister wanted him out, and because no foster homes were available, the boy was likely to be placed in a group home and possibly in a different school district, too.
"That's when all hell broke loose," his principal said. "I was like: 'No, this cannot happen. This is the only place he knows as safe since he arrived here."'
In the end, she saw just one solution: She would take the boy into her own home even if it temporarily upended her life.
Every day, Ms. Soto had hundreds of children in her care. But, with her own children grown, it was something else to mother one -- to bathe, feed and discipline one. To be summoned over the loudspeaker to help him in the bathroom. To lie by his side until he was snoring softly because he couldn't fall asleep alone.
After weeks of observing video calls between Olga and Ricardo, Ms. Soto made it clear to caseworkers that she endorsed a speedy reunion. When spring break arrived with no progress, she asked Mr. Herbold and Ms. Sharr to take in the boy temporarily so she could visit family in San Juan. They leaped at the chance.
It was a tough visit. "He was mad, a mad kid who had been passed around," Ms. Sharr said. Still, their relationship deepened, and they, too, got to know and trust Olga. When Ricardo returned to the principal, they vowed to do whatever they could to help reunite mother and son -- a highly unusual commitment, child welfare experts said.
Their chance came quickly. By the end of the school year, Ricardo was starting to call his principal "Mamá." But she had summer commitments, and Ricardo was shuttled into a fourth family's care.
At that point, Ms. Sharr proposed that Olga move into their Cambridge home temporarily so the system could get to know her better. They would support her, they said. Arranging to leave her daughter with the girl's grandmother, Olga accepted. She was floored by their generosity. "There really are people who are angels," she said.
She was allotted twice-weekly visits with Ricardo at their house, at the end of which he would beg Olga to let him stay, as if she had a say, and promise to be a good boy, as if his behavior was the issue.
Before long, the child welfare department was proposing a fifth placement. This was not unusual in Massachusetts, which in 2021 ranked 48th among the states in "placement stability" for foster children, according to the Annie E. Casey Foundation. (The agency says it has undertaken new initiatives to minimize moves.)
That was where Ricardo's advocates drew the line.
By that point, Olga had dismissed her private lawyer and accepted the original court-appointed one, with Ms. Sharr volunteering to serve as interpreter. The lawyer devised a strategy: Mr. Herbold and Ms. Sharr could become Ricardo's conditional guardians. They would have to surrender their foster care license and assume responsibility for the boy's health care, but they readily agreed.
In summer 2022, Ricardo joined his mother at their home, and Olga's new lawyer pushed immediately to schedule a trial to determine permanent custody. But with the government seemingly unable to find an open court date, Mr. Herbold and Ms. Sharr reached out to officials in Florida in hopes of catalyzing a resolution. If the state's main concern was taking on Ricardo as a ward should Olga be deported, they offered themselves -- "citizens of the United States by birth" -- as backup.
"To the State of Florida," Ms. Sharr wrote. "Nick and I are available for Ricardo should the need arise at any point in the future. We are able to care for Ricardo through his 18th birthday (and beyond). He is a part of our family now and we want the best for him, his mother, full biological sister and extended family in Florida."
****
In first grade, showing significant improvement behaviorally, academically and in English, Ricardo moved into a mainstream class. "He's wicked sharp," Mr. Herbold said. Purple paw prints, awards for class contributions, proliferated on the refrigerator. Spiderman took over elsewhere: Spider-Man pajamas, LEGOs, shampoo. Still, anxiety lurked beneath this cheery surface; a knock on the door would send him diving under a couch to hide.
Over winter break, with Dariela visiting, they all took a trip to New York City, where they rode a carriage through Central Park, sipping hot chocolate. They saw it, with fingers crossed, as a kind of farewell tour: Finally, six months after Olga's lawyer requested a trial date, one had been scheduled.
On Jan. 19, 2023, after a four-hour hearing, the judge found that Ricardo was "not in need of care and protection as to mother" and should be returned to Olga's custody.
Why he felt able to disregard the Florida denial at that point is unclear; juvenile judges in Massachusetts are not allowed to discuss their cases.
But before Olga had a chance to embrace her victory, the judge stayed his order for six days to give the child protection department time to appeal. And as she left the courtroom and returned to Florida to get her daughter back to school, Olga feared the worst.
Her advocates, however, chose optimism. On the eve of the department's decision, Mr. Herbold flew south with Ricardo. A few months later, under a new Florida law, Mr. Herbold would have been criminally liable for transporting an unauthorized immigrant into the state.
But at that moment, as they checked into a hotel, he was on tenterhooks for a different reason.
"OK, so now we go to Mom's, right?" Ricardo asked him.
"Oh, dude," Mr. Herbold replied. "You have to hang out with me for the night, because tomorrow the big boss is going to make a call as to whether you get to live with Mom or if you just get to see Mom and then we have to fly back to Boston."
The next day, more than a year after Olga first presented herself to the authorities in Massachusetts expecting an imminent reunion with her son, the custody decision became final.
Ten minutes after she got the news, Olga arrived at the hotel in buoyant spirits. She ran toward Ricardo and scooped him up in a fierce hug. As she stared into his eyes and he into hers, she staggered into the future with the boy in her arms, dangling but attached.
Photograph Ricardo, 7, risked being separated from his mother, Olga, forever. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVA MARIE UZCATEGUI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); CHRISTIANNE SHARR, with her husband, Nick Herbold, who were Ricardo's first foster parents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAYANA SZYMCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14); OLGA MARTINEZ, with her children, Dariela and Ricardo, in Hollywood, Fla., last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVA MARIE UZCATEGUI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); GLENDA SOTO, principal of Albert F. Argenziano School in Somerville, Mass., who took Ricardo into her own home at one point. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAYANA SZYMCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14, A15.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Immigration policy; Families & family life; Foster care; Child welfare; Sons; Immigrants

Location: Florida; United States--US; Massachusetts

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/25/us/immigration-family-separation.html

Title: A Migrant Mother's Struggle To Win Back Her Young Son:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 30, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3014689497

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/migrant-mothers-struggle-win-back-her-young-son/docview/3014689497/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Street Artist Adds Whimsy In Amsterdam: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: De Leeuw, Noëlle

Publication info: De Leeuw, Noëlle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/street-artist-adds-whimsy-amsterdam/docview/2955126497/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the spring of 2020, at the height of the pandemic, the always bustling Dam Square in Amsterdam was deserted, silent and surrounded by concrete counterterrorism blocks. The Dutch street artist Frank de Ruwe, who goes by the name of Frankey, decided these daunting studded blocks resembled something more innocent -- giant Lego blocks -- and that the city needed something to lighten the gloom.
The result? Later that summer, Frankey created and placed a giant yellow-and-black Lego figure of the Dutch folk singer André Hazes, whose songs have been pub favorites in the Netherlands for more than 40 years.
"It's all about seeing the right thing," Frankey said recently, over coffee in his Amsterdam neighborhood. "I think everyone was searching for a bit of bright news during these dark days."
Frankey continues to delight Amsterdam with his whimsical, witty street art. Yes, every Saturday, he publishes a new piece in the Dutch newspaper Het Parool, as well on Instagram, but those are just the tip of the iceberg. He turns any unassuming spot in the city -- a street sign, an oddly shaped brick, a ledge -- into something more playful. You're bound to run into his work on any trip to Amsterdam.
This conversation has been edited and condensed for clarity.
In the press, your street art pieces are called 'urban interventions.' What does that term mean to you?
I just want to make people smile with my work, that's the greater good. A 6-year-old and a 90-year-old can smile at the same thing; it's amazing that you brighten someone's day with just one object. It's so easy to be a bit more friendly in the streets, and I think that's what I'm doing. And if people want to call them urban interventions, I'm cool with that. It feels a bit like a buzzword, but people have been making fun stuff to brighten up the streets for centuries -- it's always been there. I'm just one of those guys who's also doing that.
When you leave your art on the street, is it legal?
No. It's illegal. I do have some rules for myself, because I love Amsterdam a lot. I don't want to harm the city at all, so all the pieces I make can be removed quite easily without leaving any damage. I work a lot with magnets and tie wraps -- I probably own every type of double-sided tape in the world. Sometimes I may not know how to construct a piece without using screws or kits or whatever. Then it becomes a nice challenge to connect it so it's still safe and people could remove it easily. But it's still illegal.
Do you know what happens to your pieces when they are removed?
Sometimes the streets just get cleaned, and the cleaner doesn't even notice there was a piece of art to begin with. There's also a group of people collecting the art to sell online, thinking my work is worth some money. But what I really like is that I've seen government vehicles with my work on their dashboard. So they removed it, but kept it as a trophy. But if people want to take it away or take it home -- it's all fine with me. I think it's a win-win. Even if it's gone.
What is your method to place your pieces on the street?
I always do it during the day. And I wear one of those orange jackets with fluorescent stripes, so I look like a guy working with the municipality. Whenever I do a big piece and need some space, I bring some orange traffic cones with me. It's been my method for 20 years and I still get away with that one.
I've read that you carry a fake permit. Is that true?
It's just a piece of paper with a lot of stamps, saying "I, Frank de Ruwe, give a permit to Street Art Frankey to place so-and-so ..." But it looks somewhat official because of its layout and because I always add a lot of appendixes. You'll have an officer standing there with all these papers, all with date stamps -- which by the way, say "Frankey official" around the date -- and they think: "If it's got a stamp, it must be official." It's the same with the orange jacket.
You've done so many pieces. Which one is your favorite?
I was really proud that I was able to make our former mayor for Paradiso, the music venue. The best musicians in the world have played there. It's an old church, right in the city center -- it's a cultural temple. When I heard that it might not stay a music venue forever, I thought that can't be possible! It's such a part of Amsterdam. And our former mayor, Eberhard van der Laan, who was so beloved, was also really into arts and culture.
So I made a little bronze sculpture of him, and he's sitting on top of Paradiso, holding the building and protecting it with a little smile. And every time I go there, I look up and say: "Yeah, this is a good spot, protect that building." I have a lot of pieces I don't check out whenever I pass them. But I'm really proud of that one.
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2024 .
Photograph The artist Frank de Ruwe and a few of of his street creations in Amsterdam, including one of the Dutch folk singer André Hazes in Lego form, top right. "It's all about seeing the right thing," Frankey said of his pieces, which some have called "urban interventions." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARIE DE LEEUW; YVONNE MAK; JURRE ROMPA; FRANKEY) This article appeared in print on page C5.

Subject: Public art; Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/01/travel/amsterdam-frankey-street-art.html

Title: Street Artist Adds Whimsy In Amsterdam:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 12, 2024

column: Q. And A.

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2955126497

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/street-artist-adds-whimsy-amsterdam/docview/2955126497/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Meet the Artist Delighting Amsterdam

Author: de Leeuw, Noëlle

Publication info: de Leeuw, Noëlle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/meet-artist-delighting-amsterdam/docview/2955027833/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In the spring of 2020, at the height of the pandemic, the always bustling Dam Square in Amsterdam was deserted, silent and surrounded by concrete counterterrorism blocks. Dutch street artist Frank de Ruwe, who goes by the name of Frankey, decided these daunting studded blocks resembled something more innocent — giant Lego blocks — and that the city needed something to lighten the gloom.
The result? Later that summer, Frankey created and placed a giant yellow-and-black Lego figure of Dutch folk singer André Hazes, whose songs have been pub favorites in the Netherlands for more than 40 years.
“It’s all about seeing the right thing,” Frankey said recently, over coffee in his Amsterdam neighborhood. “I think everyone was searching for a bit of bright news during these dark days.”
Frankey continues to delight Amsterdam with his whimsical, witty street art. Yes, every Saturday, he publishes a new piece in the Dutch newspaper Het Parool, as well as on Instagram, but those are just the tip of the iceberg. He turns any unassuming spot in the city — a street sign, an oddly shaped brick, a ledge — into something more playful. You’re bound to run into his work on any trip to Amsterdam.
This conversation has been edited and condensed for clarity.
Q: In the press, your street art pieces are called ‘urban interventions.’ What does that term mean to you?
A: I just want to make people smile with my work, that’s the greater good. A 6-year-old and a 90-year-old can smile at the same thing; it’s amazing that you brighten someone’s day with just one object. It’s so easy to be a bit more friendly in the streets, and I think that’s what I’m doing. And if people want to call them urban interventions, I’m cool with that. It feels a bit like a buzzword, but people have been making fun stuff to brighten up the streets for centuries — it’s always been there. I’m just one of those guys who’s also doing that.
Q: When you leave your art on the street, is it legal?
A: No. It’s illegal. I do have some rules for myself, because I love Amsterdam a lot. I don’t want to harm the city at all, so all the pieces I make can be removed quite easily without leaving any damage. I work a lot with magnets and tie wraps — I probably own every type of double-sided tape in the world. Sometimes I may not know how to construct a piece without using screws or kits or whatever. Then it becomes a nice challenge to connect it so it’s still safe and people could remove it easily. But it’s still illegal.
Q: Do you know what happens to your pieces when they are removed?
A: Sometimes the streets just get cleaned, and the cleaner doesn’t even notice there was a piece of art to begin with. There’s also a group of people collecting the art to sell online, thinking my work is worth some money. But what I really like is that I’ve seen government vehicles with my work on their dashboard. So they removed it, but kept it as a trophy. But if people want to take it away or take it home — it’s all fine with me. I think it’s a win-win. Even if it’s gone.
Q: What is your method to place your pieces on the street?
A: I always do it during the day. And I wear one of those orange jackets with fluorescent stripes, so I look like a guy working with the municipality. Whenever I do a big piece and need some space, I bring some orange traffic cones with me. It’s been my method for 20 years and I still get away with that one.
Q: I’ve read that you carry a fake permit. Is that true?
A: It’s just a piece of paper with a lot of stamps, saying “I, Frank de Ruwe, give a permit to Street Art Frankey to place so-and-so …” But it looks somewhat official because of its layout and because I always add a lot of appendixes. You’ll have an officer standing there with all these papers, all with date stamps — which by the way, say “Frankey official” around the date — and they think: “If it’s got a stamp, it must be official.” It’s the same with the orange jacket.
Q: You’ve done so many pieces. Which one is your favorite?
A: I was really proud that I was able to make our former mayor for Paradiso, the music venue. The best musicians in the world have played there. It’s an old church, right in the city center — it’s a cultural temple. When I heard that it might not stay a music venue forever, I thought that can’t be possible! It’s such a part of Amsterdam. And our former mayor, Eberhard van der Laan, who was so beloved, was also really into arts and culture.
So I made a little bronze sculpture of him, and he’s sitting on top of Paradiso, holding the building and protecting it with a little smile. And every time I go there, I look up and say: “Yeah, this is a good spot, protect that building.” I have a lot of pieces I don’t check out whenever I pass them. But I’m really proud of that one.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Public art; Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: De Ruwe, Frank (Frankey); Travel; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Instagram Inc; Music; Local Government; Het Parool; Citrus Fruits; Toys; Collectors And Collections; Netherlands; Levees And Dams; Water; Street Performers; Van Der Laan, Eberhard; Lego Group; Amsterdam (Netherlands); Mobile Commerce And Payments; Dutch Language; Language And Languages; Elderly

Title: Meet the Artist Delighting Amsterdam

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 11, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-11T21:43:37Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2955027833

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/meet-artist-delighting-amsterdam/docview/2955027833/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Playing Infinite Craft Is Like Peering Into an A.I.'s Brain: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Press-Reynolds, Kieran

Publication info: Press-Reynolds, Kieran. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/playing-infinite-craft-is-like-peering-into-i-s/docview/2937198300/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A large language model generates answers as gamers combine blocks of text. It can get as weird as "Farming Simulator 2013: Furry Shades of Grey" and "Osama Bin Donuts."
Fuse "Water" and "Water" to get a "Lake." Add "Fire" to "Mountain" to create "Volcano." Combine "Titanic" and "Poison Ivy" to form something called "Poisonous Titanic."
In the browser-based video game Infinite Craft, players merge blocks of text to discover the entire universe from scratch, with results that are all governed by artificial intelligence. Playing is like peering into an A.I.'s brain, a role-play of what life would look like if regulated by a large language model.
Many of Infinite Craft's recipes make practical sense, but the A.I. also comes up with wild results: Players have uncovered "Bubble Butt Wizard," "Farming Simulator 2013: Furry Shades of Grey" and an open-mic comedy night at a brewery in Toronto.
"Making a game with A.I. is at a weird place," said Neal Agarwal, Infinite Craft's solo developer. "It has moments of brilliance but also sometimes it's like talking to a 5-year-old."
The video game industry is among those reckoning with the power of impressively fast and realistic A.I. generators. Many designers and players have expressed concern that artificial intelligence will replace artists and spawn a slurry of cheap and lackluster products. Studios are looking for ways to manage rising costs, with Blizzard Entertainment training a proprietary image generator on visual assets from World of Warcraft and Overwatch.
Infinite Craft is the rare game using buzzy A.I. tools that does not feel like it is leveraging the technology as a cheat code. Agarwal said he thought A.I. was best deployed for games meant to unfurl infinitely, and not as a way to replace people doing genuine artistic work.
"I could imagine future sandbox games that couldn't have been made by programmers," he said.
The main technology behind Infinite Craft is Meta's large language model Llama 2. Whenever users try a new combination of terms, known as a much sought-after "first discovery," Llama 2 computes a fresh answer. Agarwal set up layers of prompts and a filter in hopes that the A.I. generator's solutions would not be incoherent or offensive.
The generator does not always adhere to science or logic -- "Peanut" plus "Mountain" equals "Mt. Everest" -- but its absurdity adds to the allure. The Pandora's box of freaky creations includes "Osama Bin Donuts," "Super Mario Shrekopanos" and "Transfamily Guy."
"The A.I. is wonky, so sometimes the obvious thing when you combine two things together won't happen," said Ashton Fullmer, 20, a YouTuber who has clocked more than 30 hours on the game. "It'll create the most off-brand, weird thing. It sparks curiosity."
Playing Infinite Craft can feel like you're God writing a stream-of-consciousness modernist poem. Agarwal, 26, said his design was inspired by games like Little Alchemy and Doodle God that also involve combining elements to unlock more. While those games were limited by a set library of resources, Infinite Craft can generate entries forever.
More than 300 million crafts are being made every day, according to Agarwal. The game, which was released on Jan. 31 with little publicity and no guidelines on how to play, has attracted a variety of fans, including influencers who typically play titles like Lethal Company and Fortnite, and casual players obsessed with text-based games like Wordle.
Noah Croddy, a YouTuber better known as Sophist, compared Infinite Craft to other easy-to-play games like Flappy Bird and 2048.
"The promise of infinite possibilities makes people want to keep combining things to see if it's truly as infinite as it says on the tin," Croddy, 26, said. "It's also a giant puzzle game to get a certain thing."
While Infinite Craft, like Lego or Minecraft, has no set gameplay, players have invented a funfair's worth of amusing mini-games.
When the Twitch streamer Will Neff hosted an Infinite Craft tournament with influencers like Hasan Piker, Ludwig Ahgren and Valkyrae, they challenged one another to reach a randomized block-creation the fastest (like "Finding Nemo") and create all the colors in the rainbow. Other YouTubers have recorded themselves paradoxically attempting to speed run the endless game. There are Discord communities trying to find the recipes needed to create all of a certain fandom's characters.
"It's very fun to go through trial and error," said Fullmer, who has crafted every character from the Super Smash Bros. universe.
It is this vast malleability that has made the game exciting for so many, like it is a communal project being constructed in real time. A public spreadsheet contains more than 10,000 lines of recipes for everything from movie titles to "Bill Nye the Meth Guy."
One Discord community has discovered enough Japanese characters that it can play the entire game in another language.
"That's the cool thing about A.I. games," Agarwal said. "I can set the basic rules but I don't know how far you can take it."
Photograph The possibilities in Infinite Craft are truly endless, and can also become pretty weird. But its absurdities add to its allure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEAL AGARWAL) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Computer & video games; Recipes; Artificial intelligence

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/04/arts/infinite-craft-ai-video-game.html

Title: Playing Infinite Craft Is Like Peering Into an A.I.'s Brain:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 5, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2937198300

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/playing-infinite-craft-is-like-peering-into-i-s/docview/2937198300/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2932768779/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: ENTERTAINMENT
Netflix Names Producer As Top Movie Executive
Netflix said on Wednesday that the producer Dan Lin would succeed Scott Stuber as the streaming company's top film executive.
Mr. Stuber was the head of Netflix Film for seven years before announcing last month that he would be leaving. During his tenure, he brought a bevy of Oscar-winning filmmakers to Netflix and helped the company push the rest of the entertainment industry into the streaming era.
Mr. Lin, 50, once the senior vice president of production at Warner Bros., is the founder of Rideback Productions, which was behind Netflix's recent live-action remake of "Avatar: The Last Airbender." He was also a producer of the Oscar-nominated film "The Two Popes" for the streaming service, and has produced the "It" and "Lego" movie franchises. He will report to Bela Bajaria, Netflix's chief content officer.
"While I've been approached many times during my past 15 years at Rideback, I could truly never imagine leaving until Bela reached out with this incredible opportunity," Mr. Lin said in a statement.
The son of Taiwanese immigrants, Mr. Lin is part of the new guard of producers who have built companies that tap into the times, notably inclusion. He is known in Hollywood as a strong executive with great relationships. And his ability to toggle between all-audience blockbusters like "Aladdin" and prestige pictures like "The Two Popes" suggests he has the skills to oversee Netflix's varied film slate. He's currently producing the live-action version of "Lilo & Stitch" for Walt Disney.
Most recently, Mr. Lin's name had been bandied for the job running DC Studios for Warner Bros. (That role was eventually split between the filmmaker James Gunn and the producer Peter Safran.) NICOLE SPERLING
TECHNOLOGY
Apple Aims to Disclose
A.I. Projects This Year
Apple plans to disclose more about its plans to put generative artificial intelligence to use later this year, the chief executive Tim Cook said during the company's annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday. Mr. Cook said that the iPhone maker sees "incredible breakthrough potential for generative A.I., which is why we're currently investing significantly in this area. We believe that will unlock transformative opportunities for users when it comes to productivity, problem solving and more."
Apple has been slower in rolling out generative A.I., which can generate human-like responses to written prompts, than rivals such as Microsoft and Google, which are weaving them into products.
On Wednesday, Mr. Cook argued that A.I. is already at work behind the scenes in Apple's products but said there would be more news on explicit A.I. features later this year. Bloomberg previously reported that Apple plans to use A.I. to improve the ability to search through data stored on Apple devices.
Apple shareholders on Wednesday rejected a measure asking the company to disclose more information about how it uses A.I.in its business and its ethical guidelines for the technology.
The proposal, which was defeated at the company's annual shareholder meeting, was put forth by the pension trust of the AFL-CIO, the largest American labor union federation, which has also proposed A.I. measures at other tech companies. REUTERS
Credit: By Nicole Sperling and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Streaming media; Motion picture directors & producers; Stockholders; Shareholder meetings

Business indexing term: Subject: Stockholders Shareholder meetings

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282; Name: Warner Bros Entertainment Inc; NAICS: 512110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/28/business/29bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 29, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N. Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2932768779

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2932768779/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Creating the Starbucks of Kids' Health Care: [Style Desk]

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creating-starbucks-kids-health-care/docview/2931228784/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In 1994, Dr. Michel Cohen, a 35-year-old Moroccan-French émigré, opened Tribeca Pediatrics in a storefront on Harrison Street in Manhattan's TriBeCa neighborhood.
Dr. Cohen had tousled brown hair and wore thick-framed eyeglasses and clothes by brands such as Commes des Garcons, Paul Smith and A.P.C. He rode around the neighborhood on a bicycle and made house calls to newborns and their vulnerable parents, as if TriBeCa were a quaint village and he a country doctor.
Rather than a sterile medical building, Tribeca Pediatrics's street-level office was actually the front half of Dr. Cohen's loft apartment, where he lived with his artist wife, Jeannie Weissglass, and three young daughters, who would run in and out while he saw patients.
Cheery and bright, with vintage wallpaper from Secondhand Rose and toys in the waiting area, the practice was "low intervention," the phrase Dr. Cohen used to describe his approach to medicine. He prescribed antibiotics to children only when he deemed it absolutely necessary, and, controversially, recommended sleep training babies -- that is, letting them cry through the night without soothing -- at 16 weeks (he later shortened the threshold to 8 weeks).
In the bourgeois, bohemian circles of Lower Manhattan, Dr. Cohen became a local celebrity. He appeared in GQ magazine, published a book, "The New Basics: A to Z Baby & Child Care for the Modern Parent," and treated the offspring of fashion-world and Hollywood notables like Annie Leibovitz and Jennifer Connelly.
"I was known as a revolutionary hippie doctor," Dr. Cohen said recently. "And also because of the way I dressed, and my kids, a little bit more funky."
Today, Tribeca Pediatrics remains innovative, though for a different reason. It has taken the model of the quirky, neighborhood pediatrician who knows your child personally and made it into a replicable, exportable aesthetic -- one that embodies the sophistication of living in an exclusive, wealthy urban area like Tribeca.
Now, wherever you are in the city, you are sure to encounter a Tribeca Pediatrics office or a storefront sign proclaiming one coming soon.
Last year, the practice opened 12 new offices, including in areas that are typically not considered gentrified, like Morris Park in the Bronx and Rahway, N.J. Five more are planned for 2024, including the first Tribeca Pediatrics branch on Long Island. It currently operates 48 offices in New York and its suburbs, employing around 400 people, including 112 doctors and nurse practitioners, who treat more than 100,000 patients (including my two sons before my family left the city).
Each location features the company's trademark design elements: open picture windows; whimsical plywood furniture; bright, contrasting colors; and a blue logo of a curved line meant to evoke a child being cradled.
Meanwhile, Dr. Cohen stopped practicing medicine in 2020 and no longer sees patients. Instead, he now oversees the design and construction of the ever-multiplying offices.
"I promote the big picture," Dr. Cohen said. "The communication with the office and the building. I attach so much importance to the branding and environment."
In a city where health care often means faceless corporate medicine (see: CityMD), Tribeca Pediatrics has built a recognizable, trendy brand. But as it expands into a vast empire, is it at risk of losing its personal touch?
'It feels like a Brooklyn retail shop'
With its expansion, Tribeca Pediatrics aims to make medical treatment for your child as seamless and convenient as calling an Uber. In 2020, the company built a digital portal that allows parents to schedule a visit, request a school form and ask questions about a child's symptoms or medications, all without ever picking up the phone or waiting on hold.
From the start, the practice has understood that for busy working parents a sick child can cause not merely a crisis of health but one of scheduling.
"It's Sunday night and your daughter says, 'My ear hurts,"' said Charlotte Blank, 40, the U.S. chief marketing officer in North America for Jaguar Land Rover, setting up a familiar and dreaded scenario. "So you go on to the portal and they have an appointment the next day at 8 a.m. It's such a relief. Rather than, 'Which of us is going to have to ruin our day tomorrow?"'
Ms. Blank and her husband needed a pediatrician when they relocated back to the New York area from the Midwest with their two young daughters in 2022. The couple chose the Tribeca Pediatrics office in Ardsley, a village in Westchester County, and enrolled online.
For Teddy Wayne, a novelist and the father of two, the appeal of Tribeca Pediatrics was its omnipresence: Wherever he and his wife lived in the city, there was an office nearby.
"By virtue of their multiple locations, there's going to be one near you," Mr. Wayne, 45, said. "A smaller practice wouldn't have that."
Sara Hines discovered Tribeca Pediatrics when she was pregnant with her first child and saw a flier for an orientation for new parents at the office in Boerum Hill, close to where she and her husband lived at the time. Many of the doctors, including those Ms. Hines met, were on the younger side or raising children themselves.
"As people who worked in media and tech, the fact that they had a nice office, a digital portal where you could do things and doctors that were reasonably of our generation and understood our lives -- this all felt right," said Ms. Hines, 41.
Another parent, a Brooklyn father of two who asked not to be identified because he was talking critically of his pediatrician, said that he was embarrassed by how well Tribeca Pediatrics nails the urban bobo demographic, down to the organic lollipops in the lobby, especially compared with the basic doctor's office he went to growing up.
"It feels like a Brooklyn retail shop," the dad said, adding that he had initially wondered, "Oh, are they just spending tons of money on unnecessary frills?"
The focus on image would bother him more, he said, if the care weren't "totally fine."
'Caught in the celebrity thing'
Fifteen years ago, Dr. Cohen woke up to realize that his practice, which had three locations in the city at that point, in TriBeCa, Williamsburg and Boerum Hill, wasn't making any money. He was $ 400,000 in debt.
"I couldn't care less about billing. And I was caught in the celebrity thing a bit," Dr. Cohen said, referring to the press. (He was also featured in the best-selling book about French-style parenting "Bringing Up Bébé.")
He continued: "One day I said, 'No, if I built all this, I now want something that actually has a reality.' I turned away from this celebrity and focused on my system."
In turning things around, Dr. Cohen did something unorthodox. He hired Leslie Pennypacker, a bartender he had met at Yaffa Café, a TriBeCa hangout. She was 24 at the time and had dropped out of graduate school after getting pregnant. She was not studying to become a doctor nor did she have experience in health care.
Two months after she was hired, Ms. Pennypacker recalled, Dr. Cohen decided to go surfing in Spain and put her in charge of running the operation, which then had six providers and a full roster of patients. He would often take off on a whim, Ms. Pennypacker said: "He has a wind app. If the wind was good ..."
For Ms. Pennypacker, it was "trial by fire," and she learned quickly. As Dr. Cohen told Crain's New York Business in 2018, the practice began to "chase every claim relentlessly" to get money from insurers and invest in the business.
Dr. Cohen said the push to expand was partly to meet a need for more primary care pediatrics in New York. But it was also a business strategy. "We knew that without having heft, we would not be able to survive as a small private practice" in the city, he said.
Now 41, Ms. Pennypacker is the executive director of the multi-million-dollar medical practice. She helped build the behind-the-scenes infrastructure -- including the digital portal and a centralized call center in Lower Manhattan -- that allowed Tribeca Pediatrics to scale up.
Most locations require one doctor and two furnished rooms, or two doctors and four rooms. The small size creates a neighborhood feel within a large network, and the uniform design means the staff can move between the various offices when needed. The Band-Aids and lab supplies are stored in the same cabinets in every location.
"Each assistant is assigned a tray of vaccines, like being assigned a cash register in a bar," Ms. Pennypacker said. "This number of vaccines should have been given to this many kids. You count them at the end of the day."
When he wasn't seeing patients, Dr. Cohen was scouting new locations on his bicycle. The same real estate instincts that brought him to TriBeCa in the early 1990s led him to Jersey City in 2011 (today the largest and busiest office in the network); Harlem and Bay Ridge in 2014; and East New York in 2022.
Dr. Cohen has also become a developer, buying land and building new offices himself, including a building in Staten Island with a facade made to look like giant Lego bricks.
"I don't know that it's a good investment for Michel," Ms. Pennypacker admitted. "I don't even know if he cares. He just likes building and creating stuff."
Contrary to appearances, however, Tribeca Pediatrics is not a universally exportable brand. A foray into Southern California in 2013, with offices in Marina del Rey and Silver Lake, didn't work logistically given the time difference and the centralized call center based on the East Coast.
The "Tribeca" name and hip design has also hampered the expansion into lower-income neighborhoods locally: Some families may get the impression that Tribeca Pediatrics does not accept Medicaid (it does) or doubt that it aspires to be the pediatrician for everyday New Yorkers.
Dr. Wendy Johnson, 56, is a provider in the East New York location, having previously worked in the Williamsburg office. She recalls Dr. Cohen at a staff gathering some years ago, jumping around with a microphone like a hype man, shouting, "Who has the best pediatricians in New York? Tribeca! Who's opening an office in East New York!"
"I thought, 'East New York? Is he serious? Half of these people don't even know where East New York is,"' recalled Dr. Johnson, who lives in the neighborhood.
But true to his word, Dr. Cohen bought a rowhouse on Sutter Avenue and transformed it into a striking, modern, cube-shaped doctor's office.
"I think some people were not sure what we were," said Dr. Johnson of the early reaction. "Sometimes people can be hesitant if something appears a little high-end."
But even within the gentrified, family-friendly neighborhoods of Manhattan and brownstone Brooklyn, there is a counternarrative around Tribeca Pediatrics.
On parenting blogs and at the playground, the scuttlebutt is that Tribeca Pediatrics is cultish; that Dr. Cohen is an anti-vaxxer; that his style is too laissez-faire. (For the record, Dr. Cohen said Tribeca Pediatrics believes in vaccines, although the practice does see patients who are not vaccinated, following the recommendation of the American Academy of Pediatrics.)
The greatest pushback surrounds the topic for which Dr. Cohen is most famous: sleep training. Letting a newborn cry itself to sleep at 8 weeks old is barbaric, some parents say, and they bristle at being told to follow a doctrine.
"My instinct was telling me this is not right. I was, like, 'No, no, no,"' said Amanda Spain-Perales, 41, of sleep training her child so young. After a few visits at Tribeca Pediatrics, she soon found another pediatrician.
While Tribeca Pediatrics does have a clear philosophy, which can be found in Dr. Cohen's parenting book and the monthly email newsletters that arrive in parents' inboxes, many parents say it is not zealously preached.
Sleep matters aside, the rapid growth of Tribeca Pediatrics may be coming at a cost.
One former doctor said that she was given 10 minutes to see patients for sick visits and 20 minutes for well visits at Tribeca Pediatrics, less time than at her current practice. It was good training as a young physician, she said, but the high volume led to burnout.
"I felt like my head was spinning at the end of the day -- I was barely forming sentences," said the doctor, who has since left the city and did not want to be identified speaking critically of her former employer.
There is also a fair degree of staff turnover at the practice. Some young doctors see working there as a steppingstone; others transfer between the many offices.
No more house calls
Dr. Cohen no longer lives in TriBeCa. In 2010, following his nose for real estate, he bought a house in Gowanus, Brooklyn. Two years later, he purchased the house next door, as well as an adjoining parking lot, clearing the land and building what Ms. Pennypacker laughingly called a "Barbie Dreamhouse for a Frenchman."
The seven-story building has a facade of cement and wood that was inspired by Japanese architecture, Dr. Cohen said, giving a tour on a recent afternoon. The lower levels are large cement-floored workshops devoted to building out the offices.
Dr. Cohen, now 64, lives alone on the top three floors. His personal life is complicated. He and Ms. Weissglass divorced in 2013; he has since fathered three more daughters, including one who lives in the Dominican Republic. He had also remarried, though he is currently separated from his wife, he said.
Dressed in a flannel shirt by the Japanese brand Blue in Green, pants in a loud camouflage pattern and black Blundstone boots, Dr. Cohen had the moneyed-hipster appearance of a successful older artist. His gray hair was artfully mussed, and his glasses were so chunky as to look Brutalist.
Upstairs in his penthouse apartment, which is decorated with funky, inexpensive furniture and features a glassed-in swimming pool on the top level with a view of the Manhattan skyline, Dr. Cohen explained his latest ambition.
He aspires to create a separate nonprofit entity based on the Tribeca Pediatrics model at a national level. The profitable offices would help subsidize care in low-income areas, he said. The rampant growth of his practice locally may be only the beginning.
Indeed, Tribeca Pediatrics has grown so large that, these days, many newer patients are only vaguely aware of its origin story; others don't know that Dr. Cohen exists.
Lately, the man who used to make house calls on his bicycle has been taking flying lessons. Meanwhile, Tribeca Pediatrics keeps expanding across the city and its suburbs.
Its growth has caused one urban planner to write on Medium that Tribeca Pediatrics now plays a role once symbolized by Starbucks -- "the leading predictor" of gentrification, according to Alexander McQuilkin, a senior analyst at the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
"That a medical practice -- unremarkable, unsexy, ubiquitous -- should take the mantle seems so unlikely," Mr. McQuilkin wrote.
Photograph Dr. Michel Cohen, above, who founded Tribeca Pediatrics, used to bike around TriBeCa making house calls on newborns. Top and above right, the clinic in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn shows the bright colors and whimsical design characteristic of the 48-office chain. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST12.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Vaccines; Celebrities; Neighborhoods; Pediatrics; Physicians

Business indexing term: Subject: Physicians

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/24/fashion/tribeca-pediatrics-michael-cohen.html

Title: Creating the Starbucks of Kids' Health Care:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.12

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 25, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2931228784

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/creating-starbucks-kids-health-care/docview/2931228784/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Legos Are Among Isabela Merced's Go-Tos: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Bahr, Sarah

Publication info: Bahr, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legos-are-among-isabela-merceds-go-tos/docview/2931228718/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The "Madame Web" actress unwinds with the help of Sudoku, Legos and the occasional psychology video on YouTube.
There is busy, and then there is Isabela Merced.
On an afternoon last month in Los Angeles, the actress -- who had just returned from Vancouver, where she was learning to ride horses for a role in Season 2 of HBO's postapocalyptic survival drama "The Last of Us" -- was preparing to meet Vice President Kamala Harris that night, while also doing this interview and, as an alarm that went off in the middle of the phone call revealed, laundry.
"It's a work in progress: I know how to get on the horse and not panic, and that's about it," said Merced, 22, who made her Broadway debut in "Evita" when she was 10 and is now known for her roles in "Transformers: The Last Knight" and "Dora and the Lost City of Gold."
"The Last of Us" is one of half a dozen film and TV projects she has lined up for the next few years, among them "Madame Web," the newly released Spider-Man spinoff in which she plays Anya Corazon, better known as Spider-Girl in the Marvel Comics.
Also on her film slate: the lead role in the long-awaited adaptation of John Green's young adult novel "Turtles All the Way Down"; a starring role in "Alien: Romulus" (due out in August); and Hawkgirl in "Superman: Legacy."
How does she balance it all?
"I'm going to have to practice meditation a little bit more than I have," she said.
In a conversation from her family's home, where she lives with her mother and her younger brother, Merced shared how sound baths keep her centered, the secret to her mother's "unmatched" chicken estofado, and why she always has Legos on hand. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Sound Bowls
I had my first sound-bowl experience in Peru last summer with my mom and my friends. It was so relaxing -- the guy was so talented and even incorporated a didgeridoo at one point. He also put this instrument over me that's supposed to open up your chest, and I immediately started crying.
Philosophical Books
In the past year, I've been reading a lot of nonfiction, including John Sellars's "Lessons in Stoicism" and Alan Watts's "The Wisdom of Insecurity." It's shifted my perspective; as someone who has a lot of pressure on them, I seek control in a lot of things in my life, and philosophy's helped me let go.
Legos
I have so many in my room right now, including some boxes from things I built in Budapest while I was filming "Alien." It's something that's nice to do on a Sunday that keeps me from staring at my phone all day.
Sudoku
Every time I'm on a plane, I pull out the in-flight magazine and flip to the page with Sudoku. And I play on the Sudoku app, too. I've think I've developed a good method; my record is five minutes and 30 seconds on the master level.
My Little Brother Playing the Piano
I'm not a morning person. But then I'll hear my little brother [Gyovanni Moner] -- OK, he's not really little; he towers above me! -- playing the softest, most beautiful melody on our baby grand white piano. It echoes through the house, and I have to stop and listen. He plays some Studio Ghibli movie soundtrack songs and classical versions of Kanye West songs.
My Mom's Peruvian Cooking
There are some downsides to living with your mom -- I'm a young woman, and the mom-daughter dynamic is so complicated and semi-stressful -- but the biggest upside is she cooks for me. When she texts me that she's making a meal, it turns my whole day around. She makes the best Peruvian food -- the classic estofado with chicken, rice and a tomato-based seasoning and sauce, with peas and carrots.
Boxing
I've been boxing since I was 14, when I started training for "Transformers." During the strike, I did it four or five times a week -- I'm trying to get big for "Superman" -- and I've kept up with it now two or three times per week.
My Plants
I got my first plants about a year ago -- I wanted to prove I could take care of a living thing -- and they died relatively quickly. I've learned you have to anticipate their needs, really pay attention to them in the soil. My orchid is kind of difficult to take care of; it's so sensitive!
Ferrero Chocolates
They are my go-to, even if I still don't know how to say the word.
YouTube Psychology Videos
If my dogs could talk, they'd be well-versed in this because it's all they hear all day. I started watching these when I was getting into therapy, and my therapist was throwing out all these theories about where the behaviors people in my life were exhibiting were coming from. There are lots of doctors who've adapted and started YouTube channels talking in a general way about mental illness, which I think is sweet because a lot of people can't afford therapy.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY NINA PROMMER/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page AR8.

Subject: Actors

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/17/arts/isabela-merced-madame-web.html

Title: Legos Are Among Isabela Merced's Go-Tos:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 25, 2024

column: Ten

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2931228718

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legos-are-among-isabela-merceds-go-tos/docview/2931228718/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Quiz: [Metropolitan Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/quiz/docview/2931052085/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: 1. Aleksei A. Navalny, the Russian opposition leader and anticorruption activist, died in a Russian prison. What had he not been convicted of?
Assault
Embezzlement
Extremism
Fraud
Money laundering
2. Russia captured the city of Avdiivka, once a Ukrainian stronghold, in a strategic and symbolic blow to Ukraine's military. Which region is it in?
Crimea
Donetsk
Kherson
Luhansk
Zaporizhzhia
3. A judge in New York ordered former President Donald J. Trump to pay how much for fraudulently inflating the value of his business?
$ 3.5 million
$ 35 million
$ 355 million
$ 3.5 billion
$ 355 billion
4. A majority of Supreme Court justices declined this week to hear which of the following cases?
An appeal by Donald J. Trump to win immunity from criminal charges
An appeal by the Biden administration to speed up the asylum process
A challenge to class-conscious affirmative action in Virginia
A challenge to E.P.A. fees imposed on fishermen
A challenge to the Biden administration's power to curtail air pollution
5. Residents of Cape Town complained of a foul stench wafting over the city this week. The smell was traced to a livestock carrier at the city's harbor, holding 19,000 of which animal?
Bears
Cows
Pigs
Pigeons
Skunks
6. A lunar lander called Odysseus (above) touched down safely on the moon this week, becoming the first spacecraft made by _________ to do so. Fill in the blank.
A private company
A college robotics class
The European Space Agency
The Lego corporation
An online forum for space enthusiasts
7. An A.I. chipmaker announced this week that its revenue more than tripled last quarter and projected that its revenue would more than triple again. Which chipmaker was it?
Advanced Micro Devices
IBM
Intel
Nvidia
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company
8. The Oscar-winning filmmaker Sam Mendes announced plans to make four separate biopics about the members of which band?
ABBA
Ace of Base
Queen
R.E.M.
The Beatles
9. Who ruled last week that a frozen embryo should be considered a child?
Alabama Supreme Court
Food and Drug Administration
Holy See
International Court of Justice
U.S. House of Representatives
10. The Democratic governor of a swing state this week signed into law state legislative maps that reduce Republicans' longstanding advantage. Which state is it?
Florida
Georgia
Pennsylvania
Wisconsin
Wyoming
11. Capital One said this week that it would acquire which credit card company in a deal valued at $ 35.3 billion?
American Express
Discover
Mastercard
T.D. Bank
Visa
The News Quiz is published on Fridays in the Morning newsletter. To sign up, visit nytimes.com/themorning. Solutions: 1. A; 2. B; 3. C; 4. C; 5. B; 6. A; 7. D; 8. E; 9. A; 10. D; 11. B.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A2.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/22/pageoneplus/24a2_newsquiz.html

Title: The Quiz:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 24, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2931052085

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/quiz/docview/2931052085/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Can You Turn It Into Soup (Lasagna Edition)?: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Morales, Christina

Publication info: Morales, Christina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-you-turn-into-soup-lasagna-edition/docview/2928742278/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It's taken TikTok by storm, but the origins of lasagna soup go much deeper than the internet.
For more than a century, Americans have adapted dishes with Italian roots like fettuccine Alfredo, chicken Parmesan and spaghetti with meatballs. Lasagna soup is the latest, a recipe that aims to take the work out of making the pasta casserole by mixing its components into a one-pot soup.
For its current moment in the spotlight, it can thank a Lego train. Last year, a TikTok account tried to determine how many sheets of lasagna it would take to stop the toy locomotive (24, as it turns out). Danny Freeman, who posts as @dannylovespasta on social media, responded with a video from his kitchen in Beacon, N.Y. He tossed broken lasagna into a soup of marinara and ground beef and stirred it together.
Recipe: Lasagna Soup
A few days later, the singer SZA made a request: "RECIPE PLEASE KING," and Mr. Freeman posted it. With more than 21 million views, Mr. Freeman's version has become the foundation for dozens of online recreations and adaptations, including vegetarian and white-bean-and -pesto soups.
"It feels like you're eating a home-cooked meal that your grandmother spent all day doing, but it's something you throw together for your family," said Mr. Freeman, the author of the 2023 cookbook "Danny Loves Pasta," who began posting recipes online during the pandemic. He now makes lasagna soup at home at least once every two weeks during the winter. "It feels new and fresh," he said, "even though it's been around for a long time."
Traditional lasagna, baked in a casserole dish, first became popular in the 1930s in Italian American restaurants and was presented as frozen food in the 1950s, said Ian MacAllen, the author of "Red Sauce: How Italian Food Became American." The soup version was likely first introduced at Windsor's Lounge at the Palmer House Hilton in Chicago during the 1990s, when red-sauce Italian restaurants began to close, he said.
The soup gained traction in the late aughts, likely when the Campbell's Soup Company published a recipe for it that included beef broth. Mr. MacAllen said that a rise in the use of slow cookers also could've contributed to the soup's popularity.
Italian American recipes like lasagna soup have nostalgic staying power. The soup provides the same sense of comfort, Mr. MacAllen said, and in a world dealing with wars, inflation and fallout from the pandemic, people are seeking that contentment from Italian American cuisine.
"They're eating their feelings, and it tastes like Italian food," he said.
Blount Fine Foods has been making its lasagna soup, made with turkey sausage, at Wegmans since 2019. But last year, as social-media posts about lasagna soup went viral, the company introduced it in 3,000 grocery stores. It is one of the manufacturer's five top-selling soup flavors, said Todd Blount, the president and chief executive.
A year after Mr. Freeman's posts about lasagna soup first appeared, people are making wilder versions, especially in winter.
In January, Janelle Smith, an influencer, posted her recipe for white chicken lasagna soup from her kitchen in Atlanta. This version is creamier than the original soup.
"I said: 'I love Alfredo, I love lasagna," Ms. Smith recalled. "Let me put the two together."'
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT TAYLOR-GROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: BARRETT WASHBURNE) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Italian Americans; Recipes; Cooking; Pandemics; Social networks; Pasta

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/15/dining/lasagna-soup-tiktok.html

Title: Can You Turn It Into Soup (Lasagna Edition)?:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 21, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2928742278

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-you-turn-into-soup-lasagna-edition/docview/2928742278/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Stories Shaped By Time And Loss: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Landreth, Jonathan

Publication info: Landreth, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stories-shaped-time-loss/docview/2924130875/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Like a cosmological comic, the artist's new 'graphic memoir' entwines recalled experience with legend and imagination.
As the Year of the Dragon dawns, the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei has released "Zodiac," a "graphic memoir" of scenes from his career -- both real (hanging with Allen Ginsberg, the O.G. of Beat poets, in 1980s Greenwich Village) and imagined (debating Xi Jinping, China's paramount leader). Each chapter frames the artist's take on traditional beliefs about the characteristics humans share with the 12 animals of the Chinese lunar calendar. Gianluca Costantini's intricate line drawings pair with Elettra Stamboulis's comic-bubble text to help expand Ai's lifelong campaign for free expression to a new medium for a new generation. Ai spoke with Jonathan Landreth about parents and parenting, punk rock and the passage of time, all via video chat last week from Berlin.
This conversation has been edited for length and clarity.
A zodiac cycle ago, in 2012, you were just out of jail and tired of Beijing trying to silence you. " Twitter is my city ," you told me. Now you live in Berlin, Cambridge and Portugal. Where's your city today?
Twitter was my city because it was the only place for my expression at that time. Since 2015, when I left China, conditions have changed. I was under such pressure in China. Suddenly, I came to the so-called free world and Twitter was not so important. It was just one of the tools.
I consider nowhere home. Not China and not outside China. It's strange. I just came back from New York. I consider none of these cities home. Home means you close your eyes and imagine the street and recognize a few names you grew up with. None of these places have this.
In "Zodiac," you teach your son, Ai Lao, the legend of the Jade Emperor creating the calendar. What did you learn by explaining time?
Some say time is only an illusion. The illusion can be painful, or it can be happy. Some live in the past, and some struggle in the present. Someone may have no future. It's hard to explain what time is about. The new generation needs some kind of reference when we talk about time. I can talk about the years I lived in Xinjiang, or the time my father was dying so I moved back to China from New York. You really need events to illustrate time. My son will turn 15 soon, so his time will be in China, then Germany, then England. That's how he'll understand it.
In a few "Zodiac" illustrations we see your son speaking with an image of your father, the poet Ai Qing , at his grave. Do you speak to him too?
It was an awkward situation. Ai Lao is a very independent boy. Perhaps it's due to his experiences. He has his own perspective and independent way of thinking. Sometimes we tried not to let him voice his feelings, but he bowed to my father's image, which we never do -- head down to the ground. We never had that education and we never taught him to do that. How could a child do that? This surprised me. But it was natural, to show this kind of respect.
I don't communicate with my father anymore. Not before he passed and not after. I regret I never asked him a solid question -- what did he think about China or his time? I should have and it's too late. Each generation bears the same situation. I wouldn't want Ai Lao to ask me those questions. [But] his world will not be the same as mine. Probably my father never tried to pass his experience to me because he realized there was not much of a lesson to give to the next generation. That's tragic. There's a strong sense of loss that carries more value than any material life. It's like being cut off from the most intimate relationship.
Some of "Zodiac" looks drawn from photographs, and some seems to depict dreams. Describe the process and why you chose the graphic medium for the sequel to your 2021 prose memoir .
Gianluca, the illustrator, and his wife, Elettra, and I sat together. The idea was to gather things from my memory, like a timeline, and offer mystical stories from China's past. I explained it as a mix of memory and mythology. We thought this would relate not just my experience but general knowledge for whoever was interested. It's a story with so much related to my situation that the publisher called it a memoir, but it's not. Memory is subjective. We choose some things to remember and lots to forget.
Most images in the book are related to photos because I post all my images on Instagram. They did the research. They asked questions and I answered. I never wrote a sentence but I did edit. All the dialogue in the book is based on my interviews.
So it's a collection of things you've said?
Yes. It's almost like an A.I. work.
Each animal represents a different characteristic. The mouse is a trickster and the ox is loyal. Does birth year determine personality and compatibility?
When we were growing up as communists we didn't have these superstitions. Gradually I realized through my zodiac artwork the profound meaning of this mythology to help understand individuals and society. It's very different from the West, where you turn to the stars for meaning. Chinese relate to the animals around them. Only one of them is mystical, the dragon. This year, the Year of the Dragon, is supposed to be the most uneasy, uncertain, or dramatic year, which might be true. Us Chinese, we all believe in these animals, which, strangely enough, have often turned out to be more reliable about personal character, about who to associate with. It's friendly knowledge, but the ones who believe in it really believe.
You're a rooster who left China, which now is led by Xi Jinping, a snake -- a rooster's natural friend on the compatibility chart .
We're supposed to be friends but we've had no chance to meet yet. There are 100 million roosters and 100 million snakes in China.
Am I mistaken, or is there in "Zodiac" an imagining of you debating the snake?
It's a drawing by Gianluca. I think that face looks familiar to me. He is such a good illustrator. He can use simple lines to really capture the character.
If you met the snake, what would you say?
"Be a nice snake." In Chinese, every animal is not good or bad. They all can be nice.
As an example of a tiger, you name the Nobel Peace laureate Liu Xiaobo , who died in 2017 after his release from prison. Who are today's courageous tigers?
Internationally, the U.S. is still the tiger, but it's a pretty old tiger. We have a Chinese idiom, "Even a dead tiger still has power"-- because it has that look, that skin. The U.S. is still alive, still dominates and affects the global situation. In China, the Communist Party is the tiger. The Party has existed for 103 years and reached almost 100 million people. No other party can be this big for this long and still function very well, even with tremendous internal problems. It's a system which is not just a political structure but has inherited a fatalistic society from the Qin Dynasty 2,000 years ago. Now, under the so-called opening up, they have survived and are catching up in every aspect with a kind of state capitalism. They don't have the disadvantages of classic capitalism. They have a longer strategy, a bigger plan. They can play the game differently.
But who are the individual tigers with courage to speak out like Liu Xiaobo?
There's no such person in China. Cats and tigers look the same, but China doesn't even have cats.
The rabbit represents immortality and art. With the time you have left will you, like the German artist Joseph Beuys, who is featured in "Zodiac," plant trees that thrive outdoors in open, public spaces, for all to see, or will you continue to show indoors, at museums that charge admission and are subject to political pressures?
For artists today, there are so many possibilities to not repeat this old game, which has lost interest and doesn't connect with our human experience any more. I used galleries, museums and art fairs only because I saw them as ready-made. They're just platforms, but absolutely not necessary.
After you posted a polarizing comment about the Israel-Hamas war, London's Lisson Gallery delayed a show of your new art. (The tweet was deleted). When will the show open?
I have absolutely no sense. Show or no show, it doesn't make any difference to me.
You've long stuck your finger in the eye of authority and you remain committed to free speech. You arrived in New York in 1981 just before the British punk band the Clash stormed American radio with the song "Should I Stay or Should I Go?" That question appears in your chapter on the dragon, a symbol of individual freedom. Was that conscious?
It was a conscious choice by Elettra, who employed a lot of word play and verbal information.
How punk rock did you feel when you left China in 2015?
I was a punk rock singer without a voice. I love that medium but I am the furthest I can be from being a musician.
Your art seems to express impatience with the world. Which artists in China share your impatience?
My art doesn't actually express impatience with the world. In reality, the world is indifferent, so my impatience doesn't hold much significance. Yet, there are frustrating moments in life, akin to a poorly written sentence that could be improved. My art is related to so-called contemporary practice, philosophy, or ethics. In China, almost nobody has experience with this kind of modernism or contemporary culture. They have good, meaningful, and skillful art, but it cannot be clearly discussed or interpreted. They are lost. The conversation is lost. It's not good or bad. It's just like the U.S.-China conversation, politically: also lost. They're not talking on the same page. The artist Ai Weiwei in Berlin with "Water Lilies #2" (2022), his reinterpretation of Monet's work made from Lego bricks. "Zodiac," by Ai and two collaborators, was released last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIA STURM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1); Pages from "Zodiac," a book from Ai Weiwei, promoted as a "graphic memoir," with drawings by Gianluca Costantini and bubble text by Elettra Stamboulis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT AND ABOVE, VIA TEN SPEED GRAPHIC); AI WEIWEI SPEAKING ABOUT THE PROCESS OF PUTTING TOGETHER HIS NEW BOOK, 'ZODIAC' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIA STURM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) This article appeared in print on page C1 ,C6.

Subject: Autobiographies; Mythology; Capitalism; Animals; Books; Museums; Illustrators

Business indexing term: Subject: Capitalism Museums

Location: China; New York; United States--US

People: Xi Jinping; Liu Xiaobo

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/07/arts/ai-weiwei-zodiac-memoir.html

Title: Stories Shaped By Time And Loss:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 10, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2924130875

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stories-shaped-time-loss/docview/2924130875/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ai Weiwei’s ‘Zodiac’ Is a Mystical Memory Tour

Author: Landreth, Jonathan

Publication info: Landreth, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ai-weiwei-s-zodiac-is-mystical-memory-tour/docview/2924053078/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
As the Year of the Dragon dawns, Chinese artist Ai Weiwei has released “Zodiac,” a “graphic memoir” of scenes from his career — both real (hanging with Allen Ginsberg, the OG of Beat poets, in 1980s Greenwich Village) and imagined (debating Xi Jinping, China’s paramount leader). Each chapter frames the artist’s take on traditional beliefs about the characteristics humans share with the 12 animals of the Chinese lunar calendar. Gianluca Costantini’s intricate line drawings pair with Elettra Stamboulis’ comic-bubble text to help expand Ai’s lifelong campaign for free expression to a new medium for a new generation. Ai spoke about parents and parenting, punk rock and the passage of time, all via video chat last week from Berlin.
This conversation has been edited for length and clarity.
Q: A zodiac cycle ago, in 2012, you were just out of jail and tired of Beijing trying to silence you. “ Twitter is my city ,” you told me. Now you live in Berlin; Cambridge, England; and Portugal. Where’s your city today?
A: Twitter was my city because it was the only place for my expression at that time. Since 2015, when I left China, conditions have changed. I was under such pressure in China. Suddenly, I came to the so-called free world, and Twitter was not so important. It was just one of the tools.
I consider nowhere home. Not China and not outside China. It’s strange. I just came back from New York. I consider none of these cities home. Home means you close your eyes and imagine the street and recognize a few names you grew up with. None of these places have this.
Q: In “Zodiac,” you teach your son, Ai Lao , the legend of the Jade Emperor creating the calendar. What did you learn by explaining time?
A: Some say time is only an illusion. The illusion can be painful, or it can be happy. Some live in the past, and some struggle in the present. Someone may have no future. It’s hard to explain what time is about. The new generation needs some kind of reference when we talk about time. I can talk about the years I lived in Xinjiang or the time my father was dying, so I moved back to China from New York. You really need events to illustrate time. My son will turn 15 soon, so his time will be in China, then Germany, then England. That’s how he’ll understand it.
Q: In a few “Zodiac” illustrations, we see your son speaking with an image of your father, poet Ai Qing , at his grave. Do you speak to him too?
A: It was an awkward situation. Ai Lao is a very independent boy. Perhaps it’s due to his experiences. He has his own perspective and independent way of thinking. Sometimes we tried not to let him voice his feelings, but he bowed to my father’s image, which we never do — head down to the ground. We never had that education, and we never taught him to do that. How could a child do that? This surprised me. But it was natural, to show this kind of respect.
I don’t communicate with my father anymore. Not before he passed and not after. I regret I never asked him a solid question — what did he think about China or his time? I should have, and it’s too late. Each generation bears the same situation. I wouldn’t want Ai Lao to ask me those questions. (But) his world will not be the same as mine. Probably my father never tried to pass his experience to me because he realized there was not much of a lesson to give to the next generation. That’s tragic. There’s a strong sense of loss that carries more value than any material life. It’s like being cut off from the most intimate relationship.
Q: Some of “Zodiac” looks drawn from photographs, and some seems to depict dreams. Describe the process and why you chose the graphic medium for the sequel to your 2021 prose memoir .
A: Gianluca, the illustrator, and his wife, Elettra, and I sat together. The idea was to gather things from my memory, like a timeline, and offer mystical stories from China’s past. I explained it as a mix of memory and mythology. We thought this would relate not just my experience but general knowledge for whoever was interested. It’s a story with so much related to my situation that the publisher called it a memoir, but it’s not. Memory is subjective. We choose some things to remember and lots to forget.
Most images in the book are related to photos because I post all my images on Instagram. They did the research. They asked questions, and I answered. I never wrote a sentence, but I did edit. All the dialogue in the book is based on my interviews.
Q: So it’s a collection of things you’ve said?
A: Yes. It’s almost like an AI work.
Q: Each animal represents a different characteristic. The mouse is a trickster, and the ox is loyal. Does birth year determine personality and compatibility?
A: When we were growing up as communists, we didn’t have these superstitions. Gradually, I realized through my zodiac artwork the profound meaning of this mythology to help understand individuals and society. It’s very different from the West, where you turn to the stars for meaning. Chinese relate to the animals around them. Only one of them is mystical: the dragon. This year, the Year of the Dragon, is supposed to be the most uneasy, uncertain or dramatic year, which might be true. Us Chinese, we all believe in these animals, which, strangely enough, have often turned out to be more reliable about personal character, about who to associate with. It’s friendly knowledge, but the ones who believe in it really believe.
Q: You’re a rooster who left China, which now is led by Xi Jinping, a snake — a rooster’s natural friend on the compatibility chart .
A: We’re supposed to be friends, but we’ve had no chance to meet yet. There are 100 million roosters and 100 million snakes in China.
Q: Am I mistaken, or is there in “Zodiac” an imagining of you debating the snake?
A: It’s a drawing by Gianluca. I think that face looks familiar to me. He is such a good illustrator. He can use simple lines to really capture the character.
Q: If you met the snake, what would you say?
A: “Be a nice snake.” In Chinese, every animal is not good or bad. They all can be nice.
Q: As an example of a tiger, you name Nobel Peace laureate Liu Xiaobo , who died in 2017 after his release from prison. Who are today’s courageous tigers?
A: Internationally, the U.S. is still the tiger, but it’s a pretty old tiger. We have a Chinese idiom, “Even a dead tiger still has power,” because it has that look, that skin. The U.S. is still alive, still dominates and affects the global situation. In China, the Communist Party is the tiger. The party has existed for 103 years and reached almost 100 million people. No other party can be this big for this long and still function very well, even with tremendous internal problems. It’s a system which is not just a political structure but has inherited a fatalistic society from the Qin Dynasty 2,000 years ago. Now, under the so-called opening up, they have survived and are catching up in every aspect with a kind of state capitalism. They don’t have the disadvantages of classic capitalism. They have a longer strategy, a bigger plan. They can play the game differently.
Q: But who are the individual tigers with courage to speak out like Liu Xiaobo?
A: There’s no such person in China. Cats and tigers look the same, but China doesn’t even have cats.
Q: The rabbit represents immortality and art. With the time you have left, will you, like German artist Joseph Beuys, who is featured in “Zodiac,” plant trees that thrive outdoors in open, public spaces, for all to see, or will you continue to show indoors, at museums that charge admission and are subject to political pressures?
A: For artists today, there are so many possibilities to not repeat this old game, which has lost interest and doesn’t connect with our human experience anymore. I used galleries, museums and art fairs only because I saw them as ready-made. They’re just platforms, but absolutely not necessary.
Q: After you posted a polarizing comment about the Israel-Hamas war, London’s Lisson Gallery delayed a show of your new art. (The tweet was deleted.) When will the show open?
A: I have absolutely no sense. Show or no show, it doesn’t make any difference to me.
Q: You’ve long stuck your finger in the eye of authority, and you remain committed to free speech. You arrived in New York in 1981 just before British punk band the Clash stormed American radio with the song “Should I Stay or Should I Go?” That question appears in your chapter on the dragon, a symbol of individual freedom. Was that conscious?
A: It was a conscious choice by Elettra, who employed a lot of wordplay and verbal information.
Q: How punk rock did you feel when you left China in 2015?
A: I was a punk rock singer without a voice. I love that medium, but I am the furthest I can be from being a musician.
Q: Your art seems to express impatience with the world. Which artists in China share your impatience?
A: My art doesn’t actually express impatience with the world. In reality, the world is indifferent, so my impatience doesn’t hold much significance. Yet, there are frustrating moments in life, akin to a poorly written sentence that could be improved. My art is related to so-called contemporary practice, philosophy, or ethics. In China, almost nobody has experience with this kind of modernism or contemporary culture. They have good, meaningful and skillful art, but it cannot be clearly discussed or interpreted. They are lost. The conversation is lost. It’s not good or bad. It’s just like the U.S.-China conversation, politically: also lost. They’re not talking on the same page.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Autobiographies; Animals; Books; Illustrators; Mythology; Capitalism; Museums

Business indexing term: Subject: Capitalism Museums

Location: New York; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; England; China

People: Xi Jinping; Liu Xiaobo; Ai Weiwei

Identifier / keyword: Great Britain; Politics And Government; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Actors And Actresses; Political Prisoners; Comic Books And Strips; Berlin (Germany); Animals; Freedom Of Speech And Expression; Freedom Of The Press; Peace Process; Superstitions; Hamas; Arts; Zodiac: A Graphic Memoir (Book); United States; Entertainment; Parenting; Chickens; London (England); Communist Party Of China; Israel; Elections; Clash, The; Cambridge (England); Germany; Museums; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Ginsberg, Allen; England; Defense And Military Forces; Poetry And Poets; Xinjiang (China); Names, Geographical; Music; Portugal; Snakes; Liu Xiaobo; International Relations; Collectors And Collections; Pop And Rock Music; Greenwich Village (Manhattan, Ny); Voice And Speech; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Xi Jinping; Terrorism; Beuys, Joseph; Memory; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Books And Literature; China

Title: Ai Weiwei’s ‘Zodiac’ Is a Mystical Memory Tour

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 10, 2024

Dateline: 2024-02-10T00:00:35Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2924053078

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ai-weiwei-s-zodiac-is-mystical-memory-tour/docview/2924053078/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times C ompany Feb 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How to Make Bedrooms Do Double Duty: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Mckeough, Tim

Publication info: Mckeough, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-make-bedrooms-do-double-duty/docview/2921611955/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Maybe you're working from home more often -- or you need a place to retreat from the world. Here's how to make your bedroom do double (or triple) duty.
Making the most of whatever space you have is just good sense -- whether you've recently bought your dream home or, like many people, are staying put until the housing market calms down.
The obvious place to start? Your bedroom.
Sure, it's used for sleeping at night, but what about the rest of the time? With a little planning, it could double as a home office -- or maybe a library or a playroom. It could even be a place to make cappuccino.
"It's something we're being asked to do more and more," said Sean Anderson, an interior designer based in Memphis. "A lot of it has stemmed from the shift in the past couple of years to remote work. The bedroom needs to be this place of solitude, but it also needs to be multifunctional. People want a spot to lounge, a spot to work and, obviously, a place to sleep."
William Hefner, an interior designer in Los Angeles, said he gets similar requests from frazzled parents who want their bedrooms to serve as a retreat. "They can close that door to do some work or some exercise," he said. "Or make some coffee or open a bottle of champagne."
So what's the best way to turn your bedroom into a multifunctional space? He and other designers shared their secrets.
Install a Desk
The most obvious addition to a bedroom is a place to work.
When Nicole Hirsch, a designer in Wellesley, Mass., was tasked with designing a new primary suite for a couple, a desk where they could catch up on email and write letters was at the top of their wish list.
Ms. Hirsch obliged by opening up an alcove in the bedroom with windows overlooking the yard and adding a custom-made desk with built-in cabinetry -- "a space for light work."
To maintain a calm feeling in the bedroom, she made sure there were no filing cabinets, printers, whiteboards or computer monitors left out in the open. "It's more of a casual desk space," she said.
Mr. Anderson, the Memphis designer, often uses small-scale desks in the bedrooms he designs to create similar spaces for occasional work. "So many people are now working with laptops, iPads and phones that having a space for all those devices to land is something they're asking for," he said.
In compact bedrooms, he might place a small desk beside the bed so that it doubles as a night stand. "When we don't have the real estate for a separate area, it becomes this multifunctional piece," he said.
Use a Murphy Bed
If you need more work space -- or the room in question is used for overnight guests -- consider installing a Murphy bed that can be tucked away during the day.
Once seen as impractical, Murphy beds have been growing in popularity in recent years, as new mechanisms make them easier to operate, said Mike Cassidy, a director at California Closets.
"Multiuse seems to be a bigger consideration that it was before Covid," Mr. Cassidy said. "As we're settling into whatever this new normal is, the need for multifunctional spaces hasn't slowed down."
The designer Annie Selke, for example, had California Closets install a Murphy bed in a home office at her vacation house in Palm Springs, Calif., which allowed the space to double as a guest room. Ariel Gordon, a jewelry designer, outfitted a backyard work-from-home studio with a Murphy bed from California Closets for the same reason.
Create a Lounge
How about retreating to your bedroom to cozy up by a fireplace?
For one lucky couple, Ms. Hirsch designed a primary bedroom with a pair of chairs and footstools next to a wood-burning fireplace, as well as a seating area with a sofa and coffee table that makes the room feel like a private refuge.
In smaller bedrooms, even a generous armchair paired with a small end table and floor lamp can offer a comforting place to read.
A bedroom can easily double as a media room as well, but most designers like to hide the TV when it isn't being watched. Ms. Hirsch once concealed a TV behind wooden wall panels above a fireplace. Other designers have used solutions both simple and elaborate -- putting a TV inside an armoire, for instance, or installing a retractable under-bed lift.
Make It a Library
If you're thinking about putting a reading chair in your bedroom, where will you keep all the books?
With the addition of a few bookcases, a bedroom can double as a library. In his own bedroom, in the Hancock Park neighborhood of Los Angeles, Mr. Hefner lined a sunny nook with built-in shelving and cabinets to create a mini library.
His best-looking books go on the shelves, to add to the ambience of the room. The ones that aren't so nice to look at, like dog-eared paperbacks, are stored in the cabinets.
"It's just nice to have everything right there," he said. "You don't have to go downstairs to get a book."
Or a Playroom
Mr. Hefner often designs multifunctional bedrooms for children, too.
For his son, Koji, he furnished a room with a sofa-like bed. The seat cushion is a twin-size mattress, so it offers a place to sleep and to hang out. Across the room, he mounted a shelving unit with a fold-down top, creating a small space for doing homework.
In a client's home, where he worked with the interior designer Jeremiah Brent, he went further, placing the bed at the center of the room and then covering the back of the headboard with Lego baseplates and adding a desk behind it for Lego building. On a wall beside the bed, he and Mr. Brent installed climbing grips and a climbing rope leading up to a tiny loft.
"This particular kid loved climbing," Mr. Hefner said. "So we thought, 'OK, we can have this climbing apparatus right in the room, without taking up much floor space."'
Don't Forget Refreshments
An emerging trend in bedroom design is including a built-in coffee station or minibar, similar to what you might see in a hotel room.
"It's becoming very common," said Katie Fugate, a designer at Maeve Design Collective in Scottsdale, Ariz., noting that the detailing of these refreshment nooks is often as upscale as a high-end kitchen.
Recently, when her firm was doing the interiors of a home in Phoenix, the designers added a coffee station to the primary bedroom -- complete with olive-painted cabinets, marble counters, a Wolf coffee maker, a concealed under-counter refrigerator and a bar-size sink. Now the owners can enjoy that first cup of coffee without venturing far from bed.
"The kitchen was pretty far away from the primary bedroom," Ms. Fugate said, "so we wanted to make sure our clients had easy accessibility to a good little coffee bar."
Install a Soaking Tub
Another idea borrowed from hotels: installing a bathtub in your bedroom.
"It's really a cool thing to have a stand-alone pedestal tub in a beautiful room," said Jason Halter, a principal of the Toronto-based design firm Wonder Incorporated.
Since seeing the bathtub-in-bedroom concept at a hotel in Venice, Mr. Halter has designed a few bedrooms with tubs, including one with a tub directly beneath a skylight, a few steps from the bed. The flat roof above is planted with greenery, so bathers see vegetation around the edges of the skylight during the day.
But nighttime soaks are even better, Mr. Halter said: "We thought it would be awesome to be able to have a bath while staring up at the stars."
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph William Hefner, a designer in Los Angeles, put a sofalike bed in his son's room, above left, along with a shelving unit that has a fold-down top. Above right, in a bedroom Nicole Hirsch designed, there's room for a home office in an alcove. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA HULL; SARAH WINCHESTER STUDIOS); Left, Ariel Gordon worked with California Closets to place a Murphy bed in her backyard studio. Far left, Sean Anderson, a designer in Memphis, put a desk beside the bed, to serve as both night stand and a place to work.; Clockwise from middle: Ms. Hirsch often includes a lounge space in the primary bedrooms she designs; Annie Selke installed a Murphy bed in her Palm Springs, Calif., home office; for a child's room, Mr. Hefner and the interior designer Jeremiah Brent added a Lego building station and climbing grips up to a tiny loft; Maeve Design Collective installed a coffee bar as part of a bedroom renovation; Wonder Incorporated added a tub near the bed and a skylight. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERICKA McCONNELL; HARIS KENJAR; SARAH WINCHESTER STUDIOS; SEAN McLAUGHLIN; MATTHEW WILLIAMS; MICHAEL CLIFFORD; TREVOR TONDRO) This article appeared in print on page RE8.

Subject: Design; Climbing; Libraries; Designers; Fireplaces

Business indexing term: Subject: Designers

Location: California; Los Angeles California; United States--US

People: Selke, Annie

Company / organization: Name: California Closets; NAICS: 238990, 337122, 337211, 533110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/31/realestate/bedroom-ideas-optimize-design.html

Title: How to Make Bedrooms Do Double Duty:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 4, 2024

column: The Fix

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2921611955

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-make-bedrooms-do-double-duty/docview/2921611955/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

There's a Place For Everything To Be Put Away: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Mckeough, Tim

Publication info: Mckeough, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-place-everything-be-put-away/docview/2918856577/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Most children have a lot of stuff, and they aren't always inclined to tidy it up. Here's how to embrace the abundance -- and create tools to manage it.
Susana Simonpietri, the creative director of Chango & Co., an interior design firm in Brooklyn, often electrifies social media by posting photos of children's rooms. With their eye-catching colors, unexpected patterns and playful elements, it's hard not to love the spaces she creates.
"I enjoy designing them so much, because I feel like every time we do a kids' room is an opportunity for me to be a child again," said Ms. Simonpietri, 44. "We spend just as much time on kids' rooms as we do any other room in a house." But children come with a lot of stuff -- and they aren't always inclined to pick up after themselves. That means having a good storage plan is even more important than hanging beautiful wallpaper.
Her advice? "You have to embrace what they have, but give them tools to manage it."
Here's how she did that for her 4-year-old daughter, Lola.
Use Open and Closed Storage
You probably don't want to be confronted with all of your child's toys, books and art supplies when you walk into the room. But here's a secret: If you limit the number of things you can see, the toys or books on display can serve the same function as decorative elements.
That's why Ms. Simonpietri uses both open and closed storage.
When her firm is designing a storage wall, she said, "usually we put a changing table or a dresser in the middle, and add shelving on either side."
In Lola's room, the dresser -- which is from Oeuf, and used to have a changing station on top -- provides the closed storage. White metal wall-mounted bookshelves from CB2 on either side of the dresser create space to store things in the open.
Add Baskets on Lower Shelves
For speedy cleanup at the end of the day, Ms. Simonpietri likes to use baskets. Toys and art supplies can be easily tossed inside them and concealed.
"Baskets are perfect for gathering all those shapeless and crazy things," she said.
But they should be used only on lower shelves, so children can see inside them and take things out without the risk of spilling everything on the floor.
"We keep them low, specifically so that the child can use those baskets to put things away after they're done playing," Ms. Simonpietri said.
Larger baskets with lids can provide additional storage space on the floor, if necessary. In Lola's room, she uses one as a laundry hamper.
Sort Books by Size
The covers and spines of children's books are fun to look at, but to give them a sense of order, Ms. Simonpietri likes to arrange them by height, in descending order. A book end is helpful to keep them from tipping over during boisterous play.
Just as with baskets, she said, books should be stored only on lower shelves where they're readily available to children. As children get older, books that are no longer age-appropriate should be cycled out to make room for more big-kid titles without losing storage space.
Subdivide Dresser Drawers
Drawers are great for hiding things out of sight. But subdividing them allows you to store more items -- and keep them organized.
Ms. Simonpietri uses small-scale bins for this purpose, reconfiguring them every few years to address changing needs.
"In the beginning, those were used for sheets, diapers, et cetera," she said of Lola's drawers. "But now she uses them for pajamas, socks and accessories that she wants to put on, like headbands and sunglasses."
The top of the dresser is a great place to add more specific organization tools: a jewelry box or stand, maybe, or a display case for collectibles. In Lola's room, Ms. Simonpietri added a headband stand with ends shaped like unicorns, her daughter's favorite creature.
Plan for Future Keepsakes
As children go through life, they tend to amass more things. That includes mementos that mark important moments: trophies, photos, certificates. These items won't be handled on a daily basis, so they should be put on higher shelves.
In Lola's room, Ms. Simonpietri has a small silver box where her daughter can collect her baby teeth when they eventually fall out. It sits near a ceramic figure of a ballerina that was a topper for a birthday cake.
By allocating spaces for keepsakes in advance, she said, you help prevent them from becoming clutter on counters, tabletops and the floor later.
Use Toys as Decorative Accessories
Some toys are admired more than they're played with -- assembled Lego sets, for example, or giant stuffed animals -- which makes them great decorative accessories.
"Display areas are for items that are very pretty and we want to look at, but that don't get played with as often," Ms. Simonpietri said.
In Lola's room, she placed a large cardboard unicorn mask and big stuffed animals on higher shelves. She also displayed a stuffed unicorn and crescent moon in a hanging bubble chair.
But she didn't do it alone -- every element was planned with Lola's consent.
"You can make it play," she said of the organizing process, by asking your child how they want to store their things. "Then they'll work really hard to maintain it."
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Top, a child's bedroom may look messy, but if you have a storage plan, tidying up is quick and easy. Left, Susana Simonpietri, the creative director of Chango & Co., designs appealing children's rooms with storage that helps keep clutter in check.; Above, from far left: a ceramic cup is used to hold colored pencils; in her daughter's room, Ms. Simonpietri set up the bottom drawer to hold shoes and socks; and small bins were employed to subdivide drawers, making it easier to organize various kinds of objects.; "You have to embrace what they have," Ms. Simonpietri said of children's clutter in their rooms, "but give them tools to manage it."; Ms. Simonpietri's daughter uses a unicorn-themed headband stand on the top of a dresser; and books and baskets are kept within reach on lower shelves, while higher shelves are used to display objects that aren't used as often. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEFANO UKMAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE10.

Subject: Design; Children & youth; Toys; Art supplies

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/19/realestate/kids-room-space-design.html

Title: There's a Place For Everything To Be Put Away:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 28, 2024

column: How To: Curb Kids' Clutter

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03 624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918856577

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/theres-place-everything-be-put-away/docview/2918856577/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; Five Things That Help Us Relax: [Science Desk]

Author: Sanci, Elissa

Publication info: Sanci, Elissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-five-things-that-us-relax/docview/2915464767/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Whether you're looking for new ways to de-stress or you'd like to take your relaxing rituals to the next level, the team at Wirecutter is here to help. Here are a few things we lean into when we're looking to kick back and unwind. ELISSA SANCI
Lose yourself in Lego. "I've found that building Lego sets to their exact instructions provides a deep sense of calm," said our supervising editor Joshua Lyon. "Staring into a chaotic jumble of nubby shapes and following precise steps, accompanied by a symphony of A.S.M.R. clicks, takes me into a deeply meditative state with an end result that's exactly what was promised."
There are tons of adult Lego sets to choose from. But we find Lego's dreamlike, Vincent van Gogh--inspired The Starry Night particularly striking.
Strum away stress. Even if you're not adept at playing music, it can be incredibly relaxing. If you're just starting out, the ukulele is one of the easiest stringed instruments to pick up, and many beginners on staff have found learning to play especially gratifying. "I've found the ukulele to be simple enough to deliver relaxation and enjoyment yet still challenging enough to deliver a sense of satisfaction with every new chord or strumming pattern learned," said Adrienne Maxwell, a senior editor.
Make time to meditate. Research has shown that meditation and mindfulness practices can ease symptoms of anxiety and depression. Headspace, one of our favorite meditation apps, offers a variety of programming for beginners and seasoned meditators alike. With its user-friendly interface, the app is easy to navigate, with clearly labeled and categorized sessions, so you'll be able to find what works for you.
Learn a new craft. Many staffers turn to knitting, embroidery and other fiber crafts when they want to de-stress. Working with your hands is relaxing, and these crafty activities often require a mind-quieting concentration that can create a calming atmosphere. If you're new to knitting, try the Purl Soho Learn to Knit Kit. It will teach you to knit with a detailed instruction book, and it comes with two skeins of high-quality yarn, wooden knitting needles and a tapestry needle.
Wind down with a warm beverage. Sipping on a steaming mug of tea can calm your senses at the end of a long day. For something especially comforting, try Big Heart's Chai. This tea is spicy and sweet, thanks to a pungent blend of spices (including ginger, cardamom and black pepper) and mellow honey-tobacco notes from the rooibos (a naturally decaffeinated leaf).
Elissa Sanci is a senior staff writer at Wirecutter, a product recommendation site owned by The New York Times Company. For more advice, visit nytimes.com/wirecutter.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH KOBOS) This article appeared in print on page A3.

Subject: Meditation; Needlework; Ukulele music

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/16/pageoneplus/17a3_help.html

Title: Here to Help; Five Things That Help Us Relax:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 17, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2915464767

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-five-things-that-us-relax/docview/2915464767/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A House-Groove Kiss-Off and More: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Pareles, Jon; Zoladz, Lindsay

Publication info: Pareles, Jon; Zoladz, Lindsay. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/house-groove-kiss-off-more/docview/2914136978/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hear tracks by Lil Nas X, Waxahatchee, serpentwithfeet and others.
Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week's most notable new tracks. Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes), and sign up for The Amplifier , a twice-weekly guide to new and old songs.
Ariana Grande, 'Yes, And?'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Ariana Grande returns with a thumping, crimson-lipped kiss-off on "Yes, And?," a feather-light confection safely -- but still enjoyably -- in her comfort zone. Grande has been filming the movie version of the smash musical "Wicked" since her 2020 album "Positions," so this comeback single lets her have some fun with the house-music revival (à la Beyoncé's "Break My Soul") that has become popular in her absence. The most obvious sonic reference that Grande and her fellow writers and producers Max Martin and Ilya Salmanzadeh are conjuring here is Madonna's "Vogue," and though the song does its best to seem like a communal rallying cry ("Boy come on, put your lipstick on/Come on and walk this way through the fire"), its most pointed lyrics are about the particular and seemingly vexing experience of being Ariana Grande. "Don't comment on my body, do not reply," she intones on a suddenly serious spoken-word bridge. "Your business is yours and mine is mine." It's a relief when the beat returns and she once again ascends, blithely resuming her dance on air. LINDSAY ZOLADZ
Lil Nas X, 'J Christ'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Lil Nas X has returned using what's worked for him before: an evangelical-baiting song title and a video that twists biblical imagery, with the rapper and singer being crucified and then reappearing as Noah. (He also goes one-on-one with the devil on a basketball court and shimmies as a cheerleader with a skirt and pompoms.) The underlying song is solid but secondary: a piano lick, a percussive melody and a blunt attempt at notoriety. The hook is "Bitch, I'm bad like J. Christ," but another line is the point: "Is he 'bout to give 'em something viral?" Let the algorithms decide. JON PARELES
Jeymes Samuel, D'Angelo and Jay-Z, 'I Want You Forever'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Jeymes Samuel, Jay-Z and the elusive D'Angelo are in no particular hurry on "I Want You Forever," a loose, sprawling nine-and-a-half-minute reverie from the soundtrack of Samuel's new film "The Book of Clarence." "All I want to say is that I love you so much, I don't want to be without you," D'Angelo croons repeatedly, until his language seems to liquefy. Under such hypnosis, even Jay sounds uncharacteristically chill, but his laid-back flow can't hide the heartbreak in his words: "Slept on the couch, 'cause the bed ain't a bed without you." ZOLADZ
serpentwithfeet, 'Safe Word'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Trust is an aphrodisiac in "Safe Word." Josiah Wise, who records as serpentwithfeet, promises that "The safe word is me" and "I'm your shelter," while adding that he's "insatiable," in "Safe Word." Plucked guitar notes, sparse percussion and whistling accompany the high croon of his voice, which insists on intimacy even when it gets some Auto-Tuned flourishes. PARELES
Waxahatchee featuring MJ Lenderman, 'Right Back to It'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Katie Crutchfield, Waxahatchee's singer and songwriter, marvels at long-term love by admitting how much she tests it. "I let my mind run wild/Don't know why I do it," she sings, "But you just settle in like a song with no end." The track is easygoing and countryish, complete with homey banjo picking, and MJ Lenderman provides supportive harmony vocals and electric guitar. But the scratchy tension in Crutchfield's voice betrays her continuing self-doubts. PARELES
Faye Webster featuring Lil Yachty, 'Lego Ring'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The indie-folk crooner Faye Webster and the iconoclastic rapper Lil Yachty have been friends since middle school, and their easy chemistry makes "Lego Ring," a single from Webster's upcoming album "Underdressed at the Symphony," sound more cohesive than expected. Amid crunchy guitars and percussive hits of piano, Yachty's Auto-Tuned warbles provide textured backing vocals for Webster, singing an ode to one of the cheaper pieces of jewelry ever coveted in a pop song. "Me and you, the dream team," Yachty sings, playfully, when he takes the lead, "always together like string beans." ZOLADZ
Sheryl Crow, 'Evolution'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Sheryl Crow ponders artificial intelligence in "Evolution." She hears her music deep-faked on the radio; she wonders, "Where are we headed in this paradise?/We are passengers and there's no one at the wheel." The song is a broad-shouldered rock anthem, bolstered by strings and a squealing lead-guitar solo. It posits the superiority of human feelings and hopes for a "grand solution," but the best odds Crow can offer are "maybe." PARELES
Jhené Aiko, 'Sun/Son'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Can love be renewable energy? "You charge me up," Jhené Aiko coos in "Sun/Son," as she connects the warmth of an embrace to "solar power." She's surrounded with cascading vocal harmonies over a purring, melodic bass line, luxuriating in the romance; an alternate piano-centered version turns the same sentiments into a hymn. PARELES
BrhyM, 'Deep Blue'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Bruce Hornsby collaborated with the contemporary chamber group yMusic on the coming album "Deep Sea Vents," billing their merger as BrhyM. "Deep Blue" touches on Minimalism, psychedelia and traditional jazz, with a steady backbeat, a polytonal piano lick, electric sitar and back-talk from trumpet, clarinet and violin. It's casually philosophical. "I said to the universe, 'Sir, I exist,"' Hornsby sings. "The universe replied, "The fact does not create in me a sense of obligation."' PARELES
Ben Frost, 'The River of Light and Radiation'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The composer Ben Frost chops up brutally distorted electric guitars and programmed kick drums to propel "The River of Light and Radiation," which starts as ominous pummeling and grows ever more dire, adding jolt after jolt. PARELES
Photograph Ariana Grande has released her first solo single in three years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIA TEMKIN) This article appeared in print on page C4.

Subject: Guitars; Piano; Rap music; Musicians & conductors; Radiation; Singers; Musical performances

People: Jay-Z (rapper); Grande, Ariana; Crow, Sheryl; Lil Nas X; Frost, Ben

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/12/arts/music/playlist-ariana-grande-lil-nas-x-jay-z-dangelo.html

Title: A House-Groove Kiss-Off and More:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 16, 2024

column: The Playlist

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2914136978

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/house-groove-kiss-off-more/docview/2914136978/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; The Energy Challenge, Day 5: Lose Yourself in a Task: [Science Desk]

Author: Dunn, Jancee

Publication info: Dunn, Jancee. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-energy-challenge-day-5-lose-yourself/docview/2910068297/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: All week, Here to Help is featuring the Well desk's 6-Day Energy Challenge. For the past few months, I have been conducting an experiment: Instead of scrolling through social media after work, I've been putting my phone away and doing things that feel more like play.
After a few misses, I tried flower pressing and loved it. I usually feel rested and invigorated after a session with my flowers. Apparently, I've been entering a flow state, which is a period of intense focus that comes from being absorbed in an activity.
There's no clear time frame for entering flow, said David Melnikoff, an assistant professor of organizational behavior at the Stanford Graduate School of Business. But no matter how long it takes, there is evidence that people who experience flow have less work-related burnout and emotional exhaustion.
Today, we're in search of flow states that don't require a lot of effort but have a big payoff. JANCEE DUNN
Go flow hunting. Write down five of the most immersive moments you had last year. Where were you and what were you doing? Do those moments have anything in common? Maybe they took place outdoors, or involved other people. This list can help you figure out what gets you in the flow.
Your past interests and hobbies can also provide clues. Once you've identified what lights you up, block out 15 minutes today to try it, said Dr. Sue Varma, a clinical assistant professor of psychiatry at the N.Y.U. Grossman School of Medicine. Then, at least once a week, try out your new pursuit to keep your energy levels humming.
Short on ideas? Try these.
If you have five minutes: Learn a few foreign-language phrases on a free app like Duolingo. Or play a mindless game: Dr. Melnikoff likes to toss markers into a recycling bin in his office.
If you have 10 minutes: Read a short story or a chapter from your favorite book aloud to another adult. Or try a William Morris paint-by-numbers kit.
If you have 20 minutes: Work on an adult Lego set; there's everything from classic car models to the Taj Mahal. Or draw a picture of your pet.
If you have over 30 minutes: Give in to your friend who keeps bugging you to play pickleball. Or buy some herb plants, pot them and put them near a sunny window.
The 6-Day Energy Challenge continues tomorrow.
This article appeared in print on page A3.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/03/pageoneplus/05a3_help.html

Title: Here to Help; The Energy Challenge, Day 5: Lose Yourself in a Task:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 5, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2910068297

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-energy-challenge-day-5-lose-yourself/docview/2910068297/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; How to Clean Grimy Lego Sets: [Style Desk]

Author: Lyon, Joshua

Publication info: Lyon, Joshua. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-how-clean-grimy-lego-sets/docview/2907646223/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: If you've bought an old Lego set on Craigslist or dug bricks out of your basement, you know that playing with sticky, 20-year-old sets is no fun. The good news is that getting your Lego bricks back into like-new shape isn't difficult. Here's what you need to know. JOSHUA LYON
Get basic advice from the company. Lego's official advice is to use a soft cloth or sponge and a mild detergent, and to rinse Lego pieces with clear water no hotter than 104 degrees Fahrenheit. When drying, don't use a hair dryer, an oven or a microwave because high temperatures can damage plastic. The company also advises against using a dishwasher or a washing machine, lest a loose Lego brick gets jammed in your machine.
If you're washing a bulk haul, use this plan. Dismantle all the pieces and place any with stickers or printing aside. Then, place your bricks inside a large plastic bin, add a few drops of mild dish detergent and fill the container with cold or lukewarm water. Swirl the Lego soup a bit with your hands, and let it sit for around 20 minutes.
Next, fill a smaller bin with clean water. Transfer smaller batches into it one at a time to rinse, replacing the water with each swap. Use your hands to dislodge any stubborn gunk. You can also place soapy Lego pieces in a mesh bag and rinse them off in a tub or a sink, or with a hose in the yard. If you're rinsing in a bathtub or sink, make sure to have a strong drain catcher in place so errant pieces don't clog your pipes. As for printed or stickered Lego pieces, gently clean each piece with a microfiber cloth.
Use this method to dry them. Spread out your wet Lego pieces on as many towels as necessary, and position one or more fans so they're facing the damp bricks. Periodically turn the bricks over with your hand to bring new ones to the surface. Drying can take anywhere from one to three days. It's a long process, but you won't be using any damaging heat. We've heard that Lego fans use a salad spinner to speed up the process, but doing so could scratch the bricks.
Joshua Lyon is supervising editor at Wirecutter, a product recommendation site owned by The New York Times Company. For more advice, visit nytimes.com/wirecutter.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNEMARIE CONTE) This article appeared in print on page A3.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/27/pageoneplus/30a3_help.html

Title: Here to Help; How to Clean Grimy Lego Sets:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 30, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2907646223

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-how-clean-grimy-lego-sets/docview/2907646223/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After All the Little T. Rexes, an Engagement Ring: [Society Desk]

Author: Block, Jenny

Publication info: Block, Jenny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-all-little-t-rexes-engagement-ring/docview/2899950904/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Julie Estrada Ewart, a single mother for 11 years, was not sure she would ever find true love. Enter Robert Bishop, a hockey coach who said he had been waiting his whole life for her.
"Just meet the coach."
That's what Sara Wacker Johnson had been saying to her friend Julie Lorraine Estrada Ewart again and again for nearly two years before Ms. Estrada Ewart finally agreed to meet Robert James Bishop, Ms. Johnson's son's ice hockey coach.
The two, along with Ms. Johnson and her husband Ryan, met for dinner and drinks at Omni La Costa Resort in Carlsbad, Calif., on June 25, 2021. "I'll always remember the date because it was the day before my son Evan's 18th birthday," Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
Ms. Estrada Ewart was drinking Cabernet that night and was giving Mr. Bishop a hard time for drinking Coors Light. "I kept offering him a 'real' drink." But when they went back to his apartment that night, she discovered his wine collection. "I realized there was hope for him yet," Ms. Estrada Ewart, 53, said. "We ended up making out like teenagers on his couch."
Despite the teasing, when the evening ended, Mr. Bishop, 51, said, "I really wanted to see her again." And he did, the very next day.
That night, June 26, he brought dinner to her place and unexpectedly met her sons who were supposed to be out for the evening. It turned out to be a good thing. "It was easier," Mr. Bishop said. "No stress like if it had been planned."
The next day, Ms. Estrada Ewart left for a five-day trip to New York for work and the two talked and texted daily. "Our talks got so intense that at some point I told him we needed to remember to take it slow," Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
But baby steps didn't seem to be in the cards for them. "We saw each other every day when she was in town," Mr. Bishop said.
And just seven days after their first date, Mr. Bishop met Ms. Estrada Ewart's brother, Steve Graves; sister-in-law, Cheryl Graves; niece, Christine Barnes; and mother, Norma Graves, while watching Mr. Graves's band, Midnight Ride, perform at a sports bar called The Point in Dana Point, Calif.
Before they went to watch the band, the two had dinner. "We sat at the bar and started becoming chummy with the couple sitting next to us," Ms. Estrada Ewart said. A half-hour into conversation they asked how long the two have been together. "We looked at each other and said, 'Eight."' And they said, 'Oh, eight years?' and we said, 'Eight days.' We already appeared as a couple in love," Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
Ms. Estrada Ewart is the director of public relations North America for Merlin Entertainments, based at the Legoland California Resort in Carlsbad. She holds a B.A. in communications from University of California, San Diego. She was born in the Van Nuys neighborhood of Los Angeles, but grew up in Mission Viejo, Calif. She has two sons, Evan and Ryan, now 20 and 24, from her previous marriage, which ended in divorce in 2013.
Mr. Bishop, from Toronto, Canada, is an ice hockey skills training coach. He began coaching in Canada before moving to the United States, where he moved his company Bishop Hockey Development to a training facility in San Marcos, Calif. He studied business at Seneca College for two years in Canada but left before graduating to pursue his coaching career.
Two weeks after dating, Ms. Estrada Ewart was at her community pool and a little girl was diving for rocks in the pool. "She came up and held a penny in her hand and said, 'Daddy look -- a penny.' Her dad quickly said, 'That's not an ordinary penny -- that's a Canadian penny. Those are rare and unique, hold onto it."' She took this as a sign.
"When we said 'baby steps' it was more like 'T. Rex baby steps,"' Ms. Estrada Ewart said of the many T. Rex figurines that she began ordering online and hiding as a joke.
"I placed them sporadically in Rob's apartment when I'd go away for trips," Ms. Estrada Ewart said. "He started doing the same and placing them in my suitcase or my briefcase or purse."
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
After two months of dating, Mr. Bishop started telling Ms. Estrada Ewart that he wanted to marry her. When she asked him why he had never been married before, "he said he never found the woman he wanted to spend the rest of his life with until me," Ms. Estrada Ewart said. And in February 2023, Mr. Bishop moved into Ms. Estrada Ewart's home in Vista, Calif.
On March 11, the Vista, Calif., couple went to the Beach House in Hermosa Beach for a weekend getaway. But, Ms. Estrada Ewart said, "I had a horrible headache and wasn't feeling well and the weather was crappy. I had actually suggested we cancel but Rob insisted we'd be good once we got there."
When they arrived, all she wanted to do was lay on the couch and rest. But Mr. Bishop said he had a surprise for her. "It was a beautiful box with extremely expensive champagne and two glasses," Ms. Estrada Ewart said. "I said to him, 'I hope that didn't come out of my ring fund."'
"I was laughing so hard inside," Mr. Bishop said. Later that day, he realized there was a great view of the fog rolling in. He attempted to use that as an excuse to get her out on the balcony. It wasn't working.
"I'd pop my head out and say, 'Yeah I see it,"' before going back inside. But then she heard champagne pop. "That got me out like Pavlov's dog," Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
When she walked out onto the balcony, Mr. Bishop pulled out a ring and proposed. "I love you more than words can say," Mr. Bishop said. "Will you marry me?" She said yes.
The couple were wed before 100 guests on Nov. 4 at the Mission Beach Women's Club in Mission Beach, Calif. Steve Graves, Ms. Estrada Ewart's brother who was ordained by American Marriage Ministries for the occasion, officiated. "My oldest brother, Will, died unexpectedly more than a year ago and my father a few years before that," Ms. Estrada Ewart said. "It means a lot to me to have my only remaining brother and only remaining man in my family marry us."
A cocktail reception followed on the patio with a reception inside later that evening.
Ms. Estrada Ewart wore a white gown by DB Studio, and Mr. Bishop wore a navy blue suit by Hugo Boss. They both were barefoot. "I even mentioned that in my vows because he hates having sand on his toes, it showed how much he loved me," Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
The bride's bouquet included the crown her mother wore when she got married, as well as the tulle hair piece complete with butterfly clip that her late maternal aunt wore in the 1950s as the maid of honor at Ms. Estrada Ewart's mother's wedding.
Ms. Estrada Ewart said her getting married has been very emotional for her sons. "We've been the three amigos for 11 years and this year has brought a lot of change to our tight clan." She did a mother-son dance to Bon Jovi's "Thank You For Loving Me" with each of the boys, both of whom escorted her down the aisle in place of her late father.
Barring one nephew, the wedding was the first time Ms. Estrada Ewart met Mr. Bishop's family as they all reside in Canada. "It was the first time I had seen my family since Covid," Mr. Bishop said. "So, four years."
For their first dance, the couple began by dancing to "Love Like This" by Ben Rector. "My mom yelled, 'Yay, Julie!' and then Rob's friends yelled out, 'Atta boy, Bish!' followed by, 'You dance better than you skate!"' Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
When the dance seemed to be coming to an end, Mr. Bishop dipped Ms. Estrada Ewart and the two began a choreographed Latin-style dance to "Suavemente" by Elvis Crespo. "His family and my family freaked," Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
"I was just giddy the whole day and the whole night," Ms. Estrada Ewart said. "I was just bouncing up and down on my toes before he kissed me. It was like, 'This is real. This is good."'
On This Day
When Nov. 4, 2023
Where The Mission Beach Women's Club, Mission Beach, Calif.
Blocks and Barrels In a nod to Ms. Estrada Ewart's career, the couple had Lego Duplo bricks engraved with each guest's name for their seating assignments and table numbers. They also had mini versions of themselves as bride and groom built in Lego by the model shop team at Legoland California. And because of their love of wine, instead of signing a book, guests signed "a whiskey/wine barrel that has our names, dates and, yes, a T. Rex on it," Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
A Dog on Ring Duty Ms. Estrada Ewart's 8-year-old rescue dog, Maverick, served as the ring bearer, even wearing a doggy tuxedo. By the wedding day, he had been away from Ms. Estrada Ewart all week. "He was so excited to see me he started chewing through his leash while standing there as the ring bearer and eventually tried to leap up onto me in the beginning of the ceremony," Ms. Estrada Ewart said.
Second Time Around Ms. Estrada Ewart's best friend from high school, Trish Joines, served as maid of honor. "I was her maid of honor when she got married. She was my matron of honor at my first wedding. She is now divorced so will be my maid of honor this time around."
Photograph Top, Julie Estrada Ewart and Robert Bishop at their Nov. 4 wedding at the Mission Beach Women's Club in California. Above, the bride's sons, Evan, left, and Ryan, walked her down the aisle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRISTY WALKER) This article appeared in print on page ST20.

Subject: Weddings; Dance; Marriage; Ice hockey; Personal profiles; Divorce

Location: Canada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/08/style/julie-ewart-robert-bishop-wedding.html

Title: After All the Little T. Rexes, an Engagement Ring:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: Gener al Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899950904

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-all-little-t-rexes-engagement-ring/docview/2899950904/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2025-09-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Holiday Visitors Give New York a Boost: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn; Taggart, John

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn; Taggart, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/holiday-visitors-give-new-york-boost/docview/2899950901/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: People have long traveled from all over the world to experience the glitz and bustle of New York City during the holidays. But for three years, that influx of visitors -- and their open wallets -- has been diminished, thanks to the impact of Covid.
A look around the city at the beginning of this season, however, showed miraculous signs of life: crowded streets in Manhattan, a steady flow of shoppers in stores, impossible-to-get reservations at popular restaurants, full hotels. Things aren't quite back to where they were before the pandemic, but there are plenty of reasons for optimism.
For one thing, there are just more people coming across the bridges and through the tunnels. In November, on Fifth Avenue, foot traffic increased 17.9 percent over the year before, according to Placer.ai, which tracks consumer data. That's a reversal from this time last year when the street, whose tenants include Saks Fifth Avenue, Tiffany and the LEGO Store, saw foot traffic fall compared to 2021.
Local residents may gripe about them, but New York City's economy needs those tourists. In 2019, the city had a record 66.6 million visitors, which dipped to just 22.3 million in 2020. This year, though, that number is expected to reach about 60 million, according to New York City Tourism + Conventions, a marketing organization that promotes tourism in the city's five boroughs. And hotels are filling up. Preliminary data from November shows that occupancy at the city's hotels was at 84.2 percent, up 6.2 percent from 2022.
International travelers, who stay longer and spend more, are particularly important, making up about a fifth of total visitors.
At Macy's in Herald Square -- which bills itself as the largest department store in the country -- sales to those overseas tourists rolled back during Covid, but in the third quarter, they started to approach prepandemic levels, a representative for the retailer said, driven by a rise in shoppers from Latin and Central America and parts of Europe.
People travel from across the world to say they bought something from New York's luxury shops, and those shoppers are back. For retailers, it's an achievement to have a store among the corridors of Herald Square, SoHo and Fifth Avenue. But storefront rents across all of the city's shopping districts are still showing the effects of those weeks and months when stores were dark or closed; they are down more than 15 percent from prepandemic levels.
Some micro-neighborhoods are rebounding faster than others, though. On Fifth Ave from 42nd to 49th Streets, storefront rents are going up and availability is down. But between 49th and 60th streets (where rents are much, much higher already), the opposite is true.
People also come to New York City to eat, at Michelin-star restaurants, food carts and hole-in-the-wall haunts.
This year, dining has increased 4 percent compared to the year before, according to OpenTable, an online reservation service (It's still down 14 percent compared to 2019.)
The last week in December is one of the busiest weeks for Broadway. The industry has not yet restored itself to prepandemic levels, but attendance this season is up 2.4 percent over last season, and there are indications that this holiday period will be strong.
The show goes on. And holiday visitors, just like the hometowners rushing to holiday parties or home from work, become part of the spectacle.
Michael Paulson contributed reporting.
Michael Paulson contributed reporting.
Photograph Second row above, clockwise from left: shoppers on Fifth Avenue; stylish rain gear on Fifth Avenue; a Black Friday crowd in Midtown; Times Square; the F.A.O. Schwarz toy store; the King Cole Bar at the St. Regis hotel; and Radio City Music Hall in the rain. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN TAGGART) This article appeared in print on page BU4.

Subject: Tourism; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Hotels & motels

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/09/business/nyc-tourists-holiday-season.html

Title: Holiday Visitors Give New York a Boost:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899950901

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/holiday-visitors-give-new-york-boost/docview/2899950901/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Man Who Killed 3 in Las Vegas Had Pursued College Jobs: [National Desk]

Author: Bernhard, Meg; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas

Publication info: Bernhard, Meg; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-who-killed-3-las-vegas-had-pursued-college/docview/2899232662/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The 67-year-old gunman taught at East Carolina University for nearly 16 years and had a target list of faculty members there and at U.N.LV., the police said.
The man who shot and killed three faculty members on Wednesday at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, was himself a professor who had tried and failed to get several jobs at colleges in the state, the authorities said on Thursday.
The gunman, Anthony Polito, 67, was living in a Las Vegas suburb and was killed by the police during a shootout after his rampage, officials said. Mr. Polito also shot and injured a fourth person, a man identified as a 38-year-old visiting professor who was being treated at a hospital for life-threatening wounds.
Shortly before the shooting, the police said, Mr. Polito had mailed 22 letters to employees at universities across the country, at least one of which contained an unknown white powder that was later determined to be harmless. The contents of the additional letters were not clear.
Sheriff Kevin McMahill of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said Mr. Polito had used a 9-millimeter handgun to carry out the attack and brought 11 magazines with him, two of which had been emptied by the time he was killed.
The Clark County coroner's office identified two of the people who were killed as Patricia Navarro Velez, 39, an assistant professor of accounting, and Cha Jan Chang, 64, who went by Jerry and was a professor of management information systems. Both had offices inside Frank and Estella Beam Hall, which houses the U.N.L.V. business school and where the shooting took place across several floors.
The identity of the third faculty member who was killed was being withheld until officials could notify the person's family.
Mr. Polito taught at the business school at East Carolina University in Greenville, N.C., for nearly 16 years, until 2017. Sheriff McMahill said the police were still trying to understand the gunman's exact motive, but that he had made a list of people he was seeking on the U.N.L.V. campus as well as at East Carolina University. None of those individuals were actually shot in the attack.
Mr. Polito was in financial trouble, and officers found a notice of eviction on his front door when they arrived at his apartment on Wednesday, the sheriff said.
The shooting rattled the campus of one of Nevada's largest colleges -- which sits just east of the Las Vegas Strip, the main casino corridor -- at a time when students were preparing for final exams scheduled for next week. The police said Mr. Polito had started shooting inside the business school hall shortly before noon on Wednesday.
A U.N.L.V. police officer arrived within 78 seconds of the initial call of a shooter on campus, and more officers soon followed, immediately entering the building, officials said.
The exact movements of the officers and gunman were not clear -- there were no security cameras in the hallways, the sheriff said -- but the shooter eventually exited the building about 10 minutes after the first report of gunfire. There, he confronted a police officer, and the two engaged in a shootout, during which the officer fatally shot Mr. Polito, based on video that was shown at a news conference on Thursday.
Students had been exiting classes when they heard gunshots and ran to cower in classrooms with the lights turned off. The business school is in the heart of campus and sits next to the Student Union, where students were enjoying food and a Lego-building event intended to help them relax before final exams.
Sheriff McMahill noted that the gunman still had about 150 rounds of ammunition on him when he was killed, and said he believed that the gunman might have continued his attack at the Student Union had he not been stopped.
"I believe we averted a much larger tragedy by the actions of that heroic police officer," the sheriff said.
The gunman had an address at the Promontory Point apartments in Henderson, a suburban city south of Las Vegas. On Thursday, the stucco-style buildings and apartment complex were quiet. Caution tape blocked off the section of the complex where Mr. Polito's apartment was, next to a small pool, with two police officers standing in front of his building.
Michele Pearson, a 54-year-old occupational therapist who lives in a neighboring building, was watching "C.S.I. Vegas" on Wednesday night when she heard a SWAT team arrive at the complex. She said law enforcement officers announced on a bullhorn that they had a search warrant for the apartment number where Mr. Polito lived.
The officers called out a few times, and then Ms. Pearson heard a bang.
The apartment complex is about a 20-minute drive from U.N.L.V.'s campus, where police cruisers dotted the grounds on Thursday.
David Lenzin, 25, a computer engineering student from Calgary, Alberta, had returned to collect things from a design competition that was held by the engineering department on Wednesday. He and other students had dressed up and gotten to campus early to show off designs that they had spent a year making; Mr. Lenzin's was a prototype of a robot that would clean surfaces.
"It's eerie being on campus," he said. "It's empty. There's cops everywhere. When you walk past people on campus, you just see crestfallen faces."
For many students on campus -- nearly 90 percent of whom are Nevadans -- the shooting recalled the horrors of the 2017 attack at a country music concert just a few miles away. That shooting, the deadliest in modern American history, left 60 people dead and hundreds more injured.
U.N.L.V.'s president, Keith E. Whitfield, said on Thursday that Professor Navarro Velez joined the university about five years ago. She previously worked at PwC, the accounting firm, in Puerto Rico, and went to college at the University of Puerto Rico. She had gotten her Ph.D. in accounting at the University of Central Florida, according to her biography on the U.N.L.V. website.
Professor Chang had taught at the school for more than 20 years after receiving his Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh in 2001, according to his résumé. He had completed his undergraduate studies in oceanography at National Taiwan Ocean University.
Mr. Whitfield, the president, said in a statement that the shooting on Wednesday had been, in many ways, "the realization of our greatest fear."
At a news conference, he resisted the idea of closing off the campus to the city around it.
"My inclination is not to close the campus but to see if there are other things we can do," he said, adding that he supported the idea of adding more security cameras.
Kitty Bennett contributed research. Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.
Kitty Bennett contributed research. Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A21.

Subject: Cameras; Fatalities; Students; College campuses; Business schools; Accounting; Press conferences; Shootings; Police; Search warrants; Colleges & universities

Business indexing term: Subject: Business schools Accounting Colleges & universities

Location: United States--US; Puerto Rico; Las Vegas Nevada

People: Thrush, Glenn

Company / organization: Name: East Carolina University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/07/us/university-nevada-las-vegas-shooting.html

Title: Man Who Killed 3 in Las Vegas Had Pursued College Jobs:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.21

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 8, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899232662

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-who-killed-3-las-vegas-had-pursued-college/docview/2899232662/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At Least 3 Killed as Gunman Opens Fire on U.N.L.V. Campus: [National Desk]

Author: Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Mayorquin, Orlando; Jiménez, Jesus

Publication info: Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Mayorquin, Orlando; Jiménez, Jesus. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-least-3-killed-as-gunman-opens-fire-on-u-n-l-v/docview/2898909806/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Another victim was in stable condition at the hospital, the authorities said. The gunman died in a shootout with the police.
Three people were killed after a gunman opened fire on Wednesday in a building at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, sending students running through plazas and courtyards in the latest scene of gun violence in America.
The gunman died in a shootout with the police, the authorities said. A fourth person who was shot was in stable condition at a hospital.
Sheriff Kevin McMahill of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said the police knew the gunman's identity but would not release it until later. He did not provide any information about a motive. The shooter was roughly 60 years old, according to a law enforcement official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
The gunfire erupted shortly before noon inside Frank and Estella Beam Hall, home of the Lee Business School, rattling professors, students and staff members across campus. They quickly moved to huddle in locked classrooms and offices and turned the lights off.
Armed police officers were still clearing buildings at U.N.L.V., one of the state's largest schools, several hours after the shooting, but the police said that there was no further threat to the campus, which sits just east of the Vegas Strip.
Connor Friedman, a junior, said that he and a friend -- who had been let out of class a few minutes early -- were walking out of the building and heard loud banging moments later. At first, Mr. Friedman said he dismissed the sounds as noise from construction. But then they heard more bangs, and as they were about to walk into the Student Union building next door, they saw another student who was shouting about an active shooter.
"People started running and everything," said Mr. Friedman, 20. "At first, it didn't seem real."
The authorities said the gunman began his attack on the fourth floor of the business school building. Adam Garcia, who leads police services at the university, said that two of his detectives almost immediately engaged the gunman in a shootout outside the building.
Sheriff McMahill said he was not yet sure what kind of gun the shooter had used. He said that he was proud of his and the university's officers for racing to the scene and saving lives, but that Wednesday was a tragic day for the campus and region.
"No student should have to fear pursuing their dreams on a college campus," he said.
Final exams are scheduled for next week at U.N.L.V., and this week was known as study week, when many professors hold review sessions. Students said that the campus had been hosting a "de-stress" event inside the Student Union building, a relaxed gathering that quickly turned chaotic.
Montaro Rodriguez, 20, stopped by the building with two friends after finishing a class presentation in the morning. They were snacking on waffles and competing to build the tallest Lego tower when Mr. Rodriguez heard an odd sound and saw students sprinting away from the business school and shouting that there was a shooter.
"They train you for something to happen in the classroom," he said. "This was hard because we were in the middle of this open campus. It was all on our own."
Mr. Rodriguez and his two friends fled with about 40 other people to another building where they spent the next two hours locked down, calling family to let them know what had happened.
At a campus where nearly 90 percent of students are Nevadans, the shooting recalled one of the state's darkest days in 2017, when a gunman firing from a hotel killed at least 60 people at a country music concert, the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history. That shooting took place just a few miles away.
Allister Dias, 20, the editor in chief of the student newspaper, fled the Student Union building through a stairwell on Wednesday, as gunshots rang out nearby. Hours later, Mr. Dias, who grew up in Las Vegas, could not help but think back to the 2017 attack. That another shooting would take place nearby just a few years later was "surreal," he said.
"I'm still taking a lot of time to process what just happened," he added.
Brett Johnsen, 23, was in a business law class on the second floor of the business school when he heard a loud thud followed by a blaring alarm. His professor opened the door to see what was going on and then told his students to get to the ground.
"We immediately knew what it was," Mr. Johnsen said. Moments later, his professor peered outside and instructed his students to run from the building. Mr. Johnsen sprinted to a plaza across the street.
Mr. Johnsen, who grew up in Las Vegas and is studying marketing, said that ever since he experienced a false alarm of a shooting at his high school in 2018, he had preferred to take online classes.
"I wasn't going to come to school today, but my finals are next week," he said. "I was trying to do the right thing and study for the finals and this happened."
Students said the campus was flooded with police officers within minutes of Wednesday's attack. Videos showed dozens of students with backpacks, some with their hands raised, being escorted off campus by the police, as a helicopter circled above. A reunification center was set up at the Las Vegas Convention Center.
The police said that four people suffering from panic attacks had also been taken to hospitals, as well as two officers who sustained minor injuries while looking for the suspect.
The shooting spurred the F.A.A. to issue a brief ground stop at the city's main airport, Harry Reid International Airport, which is just south of campus. U.N.L.V. will be closed at least through the end of the week, the authorities said, and officials will make a decision later about when to reopen and how to handle next week's exams.
The school's basketball game against the University of Dayton, which had been scheduled for Wednesday night in Ohio, was also postponed.
The shooting rippled through communities connected to the university, including Paradise Elementary School, which sits on the college campus.
The elementary school was placed on lockdown, and the children were later bused to a nearby school where their parents waited anxiously to pick them up.
When Donte White, 35, was finally able to retrieve and hug his daughters, Sani'ye, 8, and Honesty, 4, he promised them ice cream.
"Anything they want," Mr. White said. "This was the biggest scare of my life."
Picking up Honesty and holding her close, he said he felt lucky to be able to hug his child.
Reporting was contributed by Meg Bernhard, Lola Fadulu, Jack Healy, Glenn Thrush and Remy Tumin. Susan C. Beachy and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Reporting was contributed by Meg Bernhard, Lola Fadulu, Jack Healy, Glenn Thrush and Remy Tumin. Susan C. Beachy and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Police officers at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. The suspect died in a shootout, the police said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/LAS VEGAS SUN, VIA REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A22.

Subject: Students; Police; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Mass murders; College campuses; Business schools; Airports

Business indexing term: Subject: Business schools Airports

Location: United States--US; Las Vegas Nevada

People: Healy, Glenn

Company / organization: Name: University of Nevada-Las Vegas; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/06/us/unlv-campus-shooting.html

Title: At Least 3 Killed as Gunman Opens Fire on U.N.L.V. Campus:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2898909806

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-least-3-killed-as-gunman-opens-fire-on-u-n-l-v/docview/2898909806/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 7, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

To Be Ready For Holidays, They Started A Year Ago: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/be-ready-holidays-they-started-year-ago/docview/2893339858/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It's the busiest time of year in the retail and logistics industries. Here's how employees at four of the biggest retailers pull it off.
The holidays are a hectic time of year for everyone. But for those working in the retail and logistics industries, it's the busiest time. From selecting the carols that play in the store to deciding the most eye-catching places to display toys to getting those Amazon packages to your doorstep on time, there are thousands of people responsible for making the holiday shopping merry. Here are a few of their stories.
Nordstrom starts setting the scene a year in advance.
When shoppers across the country walk into a Nordstrom this week, they will be met with twinkling lights, garlands hung around the store and Mariah Carey crooning that all she wants for Christmas is youuuuu.
But the planning that goes into creating an experience that puts shoppers in the holiday spirit starts a year ahead, when executives at the department store select the overall theme, which sets the tone for the décor, said Paige Boggs, the vice president of store environment at Nordstrom.
This year's theme at Nordstrom is "Home for the Holidays," a nod toward nostalgia and the traditions surrounding Christmas. Late last year, the store's in-house design team and a group of engineers began to create décor around the theme, which included holiday villages and candles placed in windows. Those bigger items are manufactured and shipped to Nordstrom's 93 stores by August, Mrs. Boggs said.
The actual decorating inside the stores, however, doesn't begin until the Monday evening before Thanksgiving. Over the next few days, teams inside the stores work feverishly putting up 3,500 trees and hanging 3,900 garlands, 4,350 wreaths and 95,000 strings of twinkling lights -- all in preparation for Black Friday. For many retailers like Nordstrom, the day after Thanksgiving is the beginning of the biggest few weeks of sales for the year.
And contrary to popular belief, Nordstrom doesn't pump a scent into its stores during the holiday season. "Our goal is the absence of smell," Mrs. Boggs said. "Scent is a very polarizing thing," she continued, adding that the store even uses unscented cleaning products.
The day after Thanksgiving is also when Nordstrom will start to play holiday music in its stores. But to avoid driving store associates crazy with an endless loop of "All I Want For Christmas Is You," the department store has 30,000 songs in rotation. On Black Friday, the retailer will play holiday-themed music 50 percent of the time before dialing it down to 20 percent the next day and slowly building back up to 50 percent by mid-December. "My goal," Mrs. Boggs said, "is that you don't hear the same song twice in a day."
Target's toy aisle expands to become Toyland.
During the holidays, the toys at Target are moved beyond their designated aisle to other parts of the store. The category is a big business for the retailer, and although the popular toys of the season are largely already known -- hello, Barbie and LEGO -- executives are constantly discussing how much space they should give to toys this time of year. There are ways to "cheat space," said Tara Russell, vice president of visual merchandising and styling.
Toys are placed at the ends of aisles and in the main walkway. A large red bin shaped like a train holds small plush toys and other knickknacks to draw shoppers in. F.A.O. Schwarz toys are displayed throughout the store, too.
"I'm sure our toys team would like even more space," Ms. Russell said, smiling. "But they maximize what they have, and then we make sure that we lean in and help find a way to give them incremental space."
Sometimes, the team will unbox large items, like a play truck, to give parents a sense of how big it is. Children also get a chance to play with the items right away. But shoppers have told Target that they're not crazy about having too many unboxed toys. "Our guest tends to not like the distraction as much as maybe we used to," she said.
Instead, Target executives want shoppers to feel they can walk around the store easily while ticking through their wish lists. Signage plays a role in that.
"We know what those top 10 toys are, and so we make sure that you know where they are," Ms. Russell said. "We want you to be able to find the things that are probably on your list more easily, and the likelihood of the top 10 toys being on your list is much greater than, say, the 100th toy."
Amazon's drivers become Santa's helpers.
The week after Black Friday, Kraig Kuban, an Amazon driver, usually has a good sense of what shoppers in and around St. Petersburg, Fla., bought for Christmas gifts. He's one of a few hundred drivers at the e-commerce giant who is trained to drop off the heavy items, some as much as 300 pounds, to customers' homes. It's his fifth holiday season doing this work.
Throughout the year, he drops off a steady stream of bed-in-the-boxes, Peloton exercise machines and appliances. He'll still deliver those in the lead-up to Christmas, but he'll also start loading more Power Wheels cars and kitchen play sets into his truck. Then there are the artificial Christmas trees.
He packed the first Christmas tree onto his truck even before Halloween. Now, there are at least one or two trees on his truck each day. "We've delivered so many of them, and it's just kind of more monotonous," Mr. Kuban, 50, said. "Put it in the truck, let's go deliver it." (He's grateful he hasn't had to deliver a real, prickly tree yet.)
On average, Mr. Kuban and his partner will deliver 15 to 30 packages a day, and sometimes will set up the treadmill or air hockey table they drop off. This time of year, parents will meet him outside by his truck, asking him to be discreet because the package is a gift for their child -- so he'll haul the item to the garage to help them store it away.
And despite jokingly calling himself a "Scrooge" when it comes to his own holiday shopping, his line of work and his truck make it impossible to escape Christmas. "The antenna on our trucks broke, so once we're a little bit out of the area, the only station that comes on is the one that plays Christmas music," Mr. Kuban said. "So we do listen to it."
Macy's supply chain team plays a complex maneuvering game.
The racks of cozy knit sweaters and shimmery sequined dresses that are now on display in the local Macy's started arriving at the company's distribution centers toward the end of the summer. Making sure those sweaters and all the other items at Macy's stay in stock is part of the complex game of Tetris that Sean Barbour, Macy's senior vice president of supply chain, and his team are used to.
It's Mr. Barbour's fourth holiday season with the company; during that time, he and his team have made it through the Covid pandemic, bottlenecks in the global supply chain and the intense winter storms last year.
"We are great at solving challenges, no matter what form those challenges come in," he said.
Behind the scenes, the company's team monitoring its supply chain is determining which items -- and how many of them -- should be in the more than 560 Macy's department stores across 43 states. It does the same for Bloomingdale's stores, which Macy's parent company owns.
The team spends the weeks leading up to Christmas using sophisticated technology to monitor a wide array of real-time metrics that help predict how much time it will take before a store is out of a certain product. The objective is to get more of that merchandise in the store before that happens.
"We are positioning inventory and assortment into those regions, into those stores in advance of the season," Mr. Barbour said. Macy's keeps product reserves in nearby fulfillment centers so that it can quickly deliver items to the stores that need them.
Delivering the same number of items to every store would result in some of that merchandise languishing. "We're not really looking to have a tremendous amount of Christmas sweaters in Hawaii," Mr. Barbour said.
Despite the sophisticated modeling, a snowstorm could hit a region and slow down delivery times, or an item could unexpectedly start flying off the racks. Mr. Barbour's team has to be nimble in situations like that.
"We'll go to really any length necessary," he said. "We'll change delivery schedules. We will send inventory from another location. We will literally do whatever we need to in order to support that store."
Asked what time he wakes up on Black Friday Mr. Barbour said: "That assumes I went to sleep."
Photograph Nordstrom's visual team begins tackling decorating its stores on the Monday evening before Thanksgiving. At right and below, getting set up at the New York City flagship store on West 57th Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Kraig Kuban, left, is among a few hundred Amazon drivers trained to drop off the heavy items, some as much as 300 pounds, to customers. Items awaiting delivery and being loaded onto trucks in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OCTAVIO JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6-B7); A Christmas display at a Target in Minnesota. But it is the chain's toy department that might be the highlight of the season, often spilling beyond its designated aisle. Preparing for shoppers at Macy's in downtown Chicago, above and left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLINE YANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LYNDON FRENCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6, B7.

Subject: Thanksgiving; Retail stores; Supply chains; Holidays & special occasions; Toys; Department stores; Inventory; Christmas

Business indexing term: Subject: Retail stores Supply chains Department stores Inventory

Company / organization: Name: Macys Inc; NAICS: 445110, 455110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/24/business/retail-workers-black-friday-shopping.html

Title: To Be Ready For Holidays, They Started A Year Ago:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893339858

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/be-ready-holidays-they-started-year-ago/docview/2893339858/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

These Retail Workers Make Your Holiday Shopping Spree Possible

Author: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/these-retail-workers-make-your-holiday-shopping/docview/2893169601/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The holidays are a hectic time of year for everyone. But for those working in the retail and logistics industries, it’s the busiest time. From selecting the carols that play in the store to deciding the most eye-catching places to display toys to getting those Amazon packages to your doorstep on time, there are thousands of people responsible for making the holiday shopping merry. Here are a few of their stories.
Nordstrom starts setting the scene a year in advance.
When shoppers across the country walk into a Nordstrom this week, they will be met with twinkling lights, garlands hung around the store and Mariah Carey crooning that all she wants for Christmas is youuuuu .
But the planning that goes into creating an experience that puts shoppers in the holiday spirit starts a year ahead, when executives at the department store select the overall theme, which sets the tone for the décor, said Paige Boggs, the vice president of store environment at Nordstrom.
This year’s theme at Nordstrom is “Home for the Holidays,” a nod toward nostalgia and the traditions surrounding Christmas. Late last year, the store’s in-house design team and a group of engineers began to create décor around the theme, which included holiday villages and candles placed in windows. Those bigger items are manufactured and shipped to Nordstrom’s 93 stores by August, Boggs said.
The actual decorating inside the stores, however, doesn’t begin until the Monday evening before Thanksgiving. Over the next few days, teams inside the stores work feverishly putting up 3,500 trees and hanging 3,900 garlands, 4,350 wreaths and 95,000 strings of twinkling lights — all in preparation for Black Friday. For many retailers like Nordstrom, the day after Thanksgiving is the beginning of the biggest few weeks of sales for the year.
And contrary to popular belief, Nordstrom doesn’t pump a scent into its stores during the holiday season. “Our goal is the absence of smell,” Boggs said. “Scent is a very polarizing thing,” she continued, adding that the store even uses unscented cleaning products.
The day after Thanksgiving is also when Nordstrom will start to play holiday music in its stores. But to avoid driving store associates crazy with an endless loop of “All I Want For Christmas Is You,” the department store has 30,000 songs in rotation. On Black Friday, the retailer will play holiday-themed music 50% of the time before dialing it down to 20% the next day and slowly building back up to 50% by mid-December. “My goal,” Boggs said, “is that you don’t hear the same song twice in a day.”
Target’s toy aisle expands to become Toyland.
During the holidays, the toys at Target are moved beyond their designated aisle to other parts of the store. The category is a big business for the retailer, and although the popular toys of the season are largely already known — hello, Barbie and LEGO — executives are constantly discussing how much space they should give to toys this time of year. There are ways to “cheat space,” said Tara Russell, vice president of visual merchandising and styling.
Toys are placed at the ends of aisles and in the main walkway. A large red bin shaped like a train holds small plush toys and other knickknacks to draw shoppers in. FAO Schwarz toys are displayed throughout the store, too.
“I’m sure our toys team would like even more space,” Russell said, smiling. “But they maximize what they have, and then we make sure that we lean in and help find a way to give them incremental space.”
Sometimes, the team will unbox large items, like a play truck, to give parents a sense of how big it is. Children also get a chance to play with the items right away. But shoppers have told Target that they’re not crazy about having too many unboxed toys. “Our guest tends to not like the distraction as much as maybe we used to,” she said.
Instead, Target executives want shoppers to feel they can walk around the store easily while ticking through their wish lists. Signage plays a role in that.
“We know what those top 10 toys are, and so we make sure that you know where they are,” Russell said. “We want you to be able to find the things that are probably on your list more easily, and the likelihood of the top 10 toys being on your list is much greater than, say, the 100th toy.”
Amazon’s drivers become Santa’s helpers.
The week after Black Friday, Kraig Kuban, an Amazon driver, usually has a good sense of what shoppers in and around St. Petersburg, Florida, bought for Christmas gifts. He’s one of a few hundred drivers at the e-commerce giant who is trained to drop off the heavy items, some as much as 300 pounds, to customers’ homes. It’s his fifth holiday season doing this work.
Throughout the year, he drops off a steady stream of beds in a box, Peloton exercise machines and appliances. He’ll still deliver those in the lead-up to Christmas, but he’ll also start loading more Power Wheels cars and kitchen play sets into his truck. Then there are the artificial Christmas trees.
He packed the first Christmas tree onto his truck even before Halloween. Now, there are at least one or two trees on his truck each day. “We’ve delivered so many of them, and it’s just kind of more monotonous,” Kuban, 50, said. “Put it in the truck, let’s go deliver it.” (He’s grateful he hasn’t had to deliver a real, prickly tree yet.)
On average, Kuban and his partner will deliver 15 to 30 packages a day, and sometimes will set up the treadmill or air hockey table they drop off. This time of year, parents will meet him outside by his truck, asking him to be discreet because the package is a gift for their child — so he’ll haul the item to the garage to help them store it away.
And despite jokingly calling himself a “Scrooge” when it comes to his own holiday shopping, his line of work and his truck make it impossible to escape Christmas. “The antenna on our trucks broke, so once we’re a little bit out of the area, the only station that comes on is the one that plays Christmas music,” Kuban said. “So we do listen to it.”
Macy’s supply chain team plays a complex maneuvering game.
The racks of cozy knit sweaters and shimmery sequined dresses that are now on display in the local Macy’s started arriving at the company’s distribution centers toward the end of the summer. Making sure those sweaters and all the other items at Macy’s stay in stock is part of the complex game of Tetris that Sean Barbour, Macy’s senior vice president of supply chain, and his team are used to.
It’s Barbour’s fourth holiday season with the company; during that time, he and his team have made it through the COVID pandemic, bottlenecks in the global supply chain and the intense winter storms last year.
“We are great at solving challenges, no matter what form those challenges come in,” he said.
Behind the scenes, the company’s team monitoring its supply chain is determining which items — and how many of them — should be in the more than 560 Macy’s department stores across 43 states. It does the same for Bloomingdale’s stores, which Macy’s parent company owns.
The team spends the weeks leading up to Christmas using sophisticated technology to monitor a wide array of real-time metrics that help predict how much time it will take before a store is out of a certain product. The objective is to get more of that merchandise in the store before that happens.
“We are positioning inventory and assortment into those regions, into those stores in advance of the season,” Barbour said. Macy’s keeps product reserves in nearby fulfillment centers so that it can quickly deliver items to the stores that need them.
Delivering the same number of items to every store would result in some of that merchandise languishing. “We’re not really looking to have a tremendous amount of Christmas sweaters in Hawaii,” Barbour said.
Despite the sophisticated modeling, a snowstorm could hit a region and slow down delivery times, or an item could unexpectedly start flying off the racks. Barbour’s team has to be nimble in situations like that.
“We’ll go to really any length necessary,” he said. “We’ll change delivery schedules. We will send inventory from another location. We will literally do whatever we need to in order to support that store.”
Asked what time he wakes up on Black Friday, Barbour said: “That assumes I went to sleep.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Thanksgiving; Trees; Retail stores; Supply chains; Shopping; Holidays & special occasions; Toys; Department stores; Inventory; Christmas

Business indexing term: Subject: Retail stores Supply chains Department stores Inventory

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Florida; Holidays And Special Occasions; Black Friday And Cyber Monday (Shopping); Smells And Odors; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Shopping And Retail; Railroads; Nordstrom Inc; AmazonCom Inc; F A O Schwarz; Thanksgiving Day; Target Corporation; Seasons And Months; Carey, Mariah; Delivery Services; Smell (Olfaction); Christmas Trees; Gifts; Halloween; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Advertising And Marketing; Senses And Sensation; Toys; Real Estate (Commercial); Labor And Jobs; Tetris (Video Game); Television; Hawaii; Lighting; St Petersburg (Fla); Supply Chain; Christmas; Business

Title: These Retail Workers Make Your Holiday Shopping Spree Possible

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-24T23:43:13Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893169601

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/these-retail-workers-make-your-holiday-shopping/docview/2893169601/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Matthew Perry as Sparring Partner: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Lyons, Margaret

Publication info: Lyons, Margaret. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/matthew-perry-as-sparring-partner/docview/2884966984/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Perry will always be remembered as Chandler on "Friends," but his performances in shows like "The West Wing" and "The Good Fight" revealed his subtle gifts as an actor.
TV flags are flying at half-staff today, with the news that Matthew Perry died on Saturday. The influence and persistence of "Friends" is hard to overstate, and Perry's nimble, endearing performance as Chandler Bing is tattooed on the hearts and brains of anyone who watched TV in the 1990s.
The show's continuing ubiquity makes Perry's death more galling somehow -- don't certain stars achieve immortality through streaming and syndication? How disorienting and unjust for time to spin forward, especially when one can encounter a debate about Ross's inadequacies or a Lego tribute to the Central Perk coffee shop as easily today as 25 years ago. More easily, probably.
Perry was not the kind of actor who disappeared into a role but rather where the role disappeared into him. His characters are charming, with a bite; fast, eager. And what comes through most strongly in his comic and dramatic performances alike is that he was a sparring partner par excellence -- practically bouncing on his tiptoes, brought in to firm up and sharpen everyone's game.
This is never more clear than in "The West Wing," where Perry appears in three episodes as Joe Quincy, a clever lawyer. His arc on "West Wing" aired right around the same time as the final few episodes of "Friends," and it modeled the kind of role we'd frequently see him in after Chandler: a fascinating, intelligent, perhaps lovable adversary.
Perry tightens Chandler's amiable glibness into a prickly antagonism, going toe-to-toe with the combative and insecure hero, Josh (Bradley Whitford). Joe is not just smart, he's tricky -- but ethical, which in an Aaron Sorkin story makes him a holy figure. "The West Wing" is a rhythmic show, and its banter has a reliable, specific cadence. Perry slyly breaks that tempo: As Josh volleys awkward small-talk questions, Joe takes his time returning the ball, offering only a few terse "yes"es. This tilts the power toward him in the conversation -- like he's tripping us and catching us in the same gesture.
Indeed, the whole dramatic climax of Season 4 hinges on Joe's palpable intelligence. It's Joe who realizes that the vice president, John Hoynes (Tim Matheson), has been leaking information to his mistress, Joe who orchestrates proof of that transgression, Joe who gravely advises him that the next step is to talk to his family. There are many smart regular characters on "The West Wing," and much is made of everyone's deductive reasoning -- but it is Perry who is brought in for this blow, to one-up our regular crew.
"Pinch hitting" is sometimes misunderstood to just mean "substitute," but that misses a key aspect of baseball: You don't just swap for swapping's sake. You put someone in to pinch hit because they will do a better job than the starting batter in a given situation. Perry was a pinch-hitter in "The West Wing." He's also a pinch-hitter in "The Good Wife," where again he plays a clever lawyer.
But in "The Good Wife," and later as the same character in "The Good Fight," Perry's character is more of a villain -- untrustworthy, vicious, unpredictable. Again, there are lots of characters that describes on "The Good Wife," but it is Perry's Mike Kresteva whose aggressive political tactics send Alicia (Julianna Margulies) back to her estranged husband. We know that husband, Peter (Chris Noth), runs hot -- but it's Kresteva he punches in the face.
Perry's bobbing and weaving on "The Good Wife" is charged with spectacular little choices. When he badgers Alicia, Mike blinks and blinks and blinks, a subtle but effective lure. Is that aggression or fear? With Diane (Christine Baranski), that's dialed way back; with Peter, there is animal kingdom-level chest puffery. (I'll just throw in here that if you have never watched "The Good Wife" or "Fight," they are very good shows! Man oh man.)
Perry's push-pull is not always hostile and mean, though. In "Go On," an underrated grief-support-group comedy that aired its one season in 2012-13, it's hostile and comedic -- blustery posturing, not dangerous scheming. And it's distinct from Chandler's playful sarcasm; in "Go On," Perry's Ryan is a high-status sports radio host and recent widower who believes he's kind of better than everyone, as opposed to Chandler, who believes he's kind of worse.
In "Go On," Ryan's dynamic with Lauren (Laura Benanti), the leader of the therapy group, is defined by sharp, resentful bickering as he resists delving into his grief. But over the course of the season, we see him slowing and softening with Anne (Julie White). Again, it's Perry's tiny toying with pace that perks up your ears, the conductor calling for a ritardando as a way to refocus the musicians who aren't watching him.
I have not seen a single spider since 1997 and not heard in my head Perry's voice saying "Phil Spiderman," nor have I shaken a bracelet on my wrist without picturing an agitated Chandler doing the same. There's only one Chandler. But there were many Matthew Perry performances, and the fact that there won't be more is a real loss.
"Friends" and "The West Wing" are streaming on Max. "The Good Wife" and "The Good Fight" are on Paramount+. "Go On" is on the Roku Channel.
Photograph Matthew Perry, in foreground with Amy Stewart and Richard Schiff, was a guest star -- and pinch-hitter -- in "The West Wing." (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS.); In "Go On," with Laura Benanti, Perry played a widower who was reluctant to delve into his grief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIVIAN ZINK/NBC) This article appeared in print on page C6.

People: Perry, Matthew

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/30/arts/television/matthew-perry-the-west-wing-the-good-wife.html

Title: Matthew Perry as Sparring Partner:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 2, 2023

column: Critic's Notebook

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2884966984

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/matthew-perry-as-sparring-partner/docview/2884966984/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Muslim Boy, 6, Mourned in Illinois After Attack Called Hate Crime: [National Desk]

Author: Bosman, Julie; Smith, Mitch; Chiarito, Robert; Jamie Kelter Davis

Publication info: Bosman, Julie; Smith, Mitch; Chiarito, Robert; Jamie Kelter Davis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/muslim-boy-6-mourned-illinois-after-attack-called/docview/2877619339/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The family of Wadea Al-Fayoume remembered him at a funeral in suburban Chicago. The man accused in the boy's death appeared in court.
At the front of an Illinois mosque, a short white coffin was draped in a Palestinian flag.
The boy inside, a Lego-loving, 6-year-old soccer fan named Wadea Al-Fayoume, was too young to have understood the complicated politics of the place his Palestinian parents left behind, or of this country where he was being raised. But, the authorities in suburban Chicago said, he became a casualty of those divisions nonetheless.
Wadea, who should have been at school on Monday, was instead mourned by an enormous crowd that filled the large mosque in Bridgeview, Ill., and spilled outside. Prosecutors said that he was stabbed to death over the weekend in an attack motivated by hate for Muslims amid the fighting in Israel and Gaza. A short drive away from the mosque, Wadea's 71-year-old landlord, who was charged in his killing, was making his initial appearance in court.
Family members and friends remembered Wadea as a kind child who loved swimming, jumping and playing games, and celebrated his birthday only days ago. Wadea's mother, Hanan Shaheen, who was seriously injured in the attack, was still recovering and not able to attend the funeral, according to Ahmed Rehab, the executive director of the Chicago office of the Council on American-Islamic Relations.
"This is a heavy day that we hoped would never come. As they say, the smallest coffins are the heaviest," Mr. Rehab said.
The killing on Saturday drew condemnations from President Biden and Attorney General Merrick B. Garland, as well as outpourings of grief from Muslim leaders across the country, many of whom saw the attack as an outgrowth of overheated or one-sided rhetoric about the fighting overseas.
In interviews at the mosque and at a news conference before the funeral, Muslims described their frustration with politicians, including Mr. Biden, who had voiced support for Israel, and with American journalists, who they said often took Israel's side and did not fully reflect the humanity of Palestinian people.
Since the start of the fighting overseas, and especially since the stabbing over the weekend, several Muslims in the Chicago area said they feared increasingly for the physical safety of their families.
Fariz Burhanuddin, 37, who is Muslim of Indian heritage, said he and his wife were struggling with how to talk to their own young son about the stabbing.
"I'm searching for the words," he said. "How do you tell a 5-year-old about something like this?"
At the same time mourners were gathering in Bridgeview, the man accused of the killing was appearing in court in Joliet, Ill., about 30 miles away.
In court documents, prosecutors described the landlord, Joseph M. Czuba, as angry, erratic, paranoid and violent. He has been charged with murder and hate crimes.
Mr. Czuba, 71, had been listening to conservative radio coverage of the Middle East war in the days before the attack, prosecutors said, and wanted his Palestinian American tenants to move out of his building. He was increasingly concerned that he was in personal danger because of his connection to them, they said.
Judge Donald W. DeWilkins ordered Mr. Czuba held in jail without the possibility of release. Mr. Czuba appeared in court hunched and disheveled with matted hair, and answered quietly with "Yes, sir" when questioned by the judge.
He faces charges of first-degree murder, attempted first-degree murder, two counts of a hate crime and aggravated battery with a deadly weapon. In court, Mr. Czuba requested a public defender.
Outside the Bridgeview mosque where the funeral was held, large crowds gathered, their cars filling the parking lot and spilling into side streets. Police officers from across the Chicago area were stationed on the streets surrounding the mosque.
After the charges were announced, officials in Illinois and Washington swiftly issued statements condemning the attack. Mr. Biden said that he was "shocked and sickened" and that "this horrific act of hate has no place in America." Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois, a Democrat, said that "to take a 6-year-old child's life in the name of bigotry is nothing short of evil."
Mr. Garland announced a federal hate crimes investigation and said that "this incident cannot help but further raise the fears of Muslim, Arab and Palestinian communities in our country with regard to hate-fueled violence." The F.B.I. said it was working the case.
"No one in the United States of America should have to live in fear of violence because of how they worship or where they or their family come from," Mr. Garland added.
Mr. Czuba had rented two rooms in his home in Plainfield Township, about 40 miles southwest of downtown Chicago, to Ms. Shaheen, 32, and her son. On Saturday, the morning of the attack, Ms. Shaheen told investigators, Mr. Czuba knocked on her bedroom door and told her that he was angry about the war in Israel.
"Let's pray for peace," she responded, according to investigators.
But Mr. Czuba immediately attacked with a knife, forcing her to flee to a bathroom and lock herself inside, where she called 911. After the police arrived, her son was found stabbed 26 times and unresponsive in his bedroom.
Mary Czuba, Mr. Czuba's wife, told investigators that he had recently become very interested in the conflict in the Middle East and was worried that Ms. Shaheen was going to "call over her Palestinian friends or family to harm him," according to prosecutors.
Ms. Czuba also told the authorities that her husband had made a cash withdrawal of $ 1,000 to prepare for the electrical grid failing in the United States.
Suburban Chicago has a large Palestinian American community, including an area with many Arab restaurants and shops that some refer to as Little Palestine. The attack on Saturday happened in a different part of the suburbs, in a home along a busy stretch of highway near a Chevrolet dealership and a barbecue restaurant. The property was adorned with several American flags, an advertisement for organic honey and a sign asking people to pray to end abortion.
A neighbor, Mariola Jagodzinski, who lives two houses away, described Wadea as "a playful child -- really full of energy." She said she had helped Mr. Czuba build a treehouse for the boy a couple of years ago.
"I cannot imagine what the parents are going through," she said. "As a parent, this is heartbreaking."
The assault on Saturday came amid increasing violence between Israel and Hamas, the Palestinian group that controls the Gaza Strip.
On Oct. 7, Hamas unleashed a surprise attack against Israel that left more than 1,400 Israelis dead, prompting intense retaliation that has killed about 2,800 people in Gaza, according to officials there. Across the Middle East, fears of a widening conflict and worsening humanitarian crisis were mounting.
Within the United States, Muslim and Jewish congregations have stepped up security, and law enforcement officials have said they are monitoring for potential hate crimes and other attacks.
Brendan Kelly, the director of the Illinois State Police, said everyone in his state "must remain on guard against both terrorism and hate crimes during this period of volatility."
At the mosque where Wadea was mourned, many said they hoped the boy's death would force a recalculation of the American discourse on Israelis and Palestinians. The alternative, they feared, could be a return to the days after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when Muslims across the country were victims of hate crimes and worried about their safety.
"Have we not learned anything from 9/11?" Imam Omar Suleiman said outside the mosque. "Do we really want to live those dark years again?"
Johnny Diaz, Bernard Mokam and Aida Alami contributed reporting. Jack Begg contributed research.
Johnny Diaz, Bernard Mokam and Aida Alami contributed reporting. Jack Begg contributed research.
Photograph The home of Wadea Al-Fayoume, 6, below, who was killed by a 71-year-old man on Saturday in what officials said was a crime motivated by hate for Muslims. Yousef Hannon, Wadea's uncle, spoke to reporters on Sunday. And a girl left a bear at Wadea's house. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE KELTER DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; CAIR, VIA REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Violence; Muslims; Murders & murder attempts; Stabbings

Location: Middle East; Chicago Illinois; Gaza Strip; United States--US; Israel; Illinois

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/16/us/stabbing-hate-crime-funeral.html

Title: Muslim Boy, 6, Mourned in Illinois After Attack Called Hate Crime:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2877619339

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/muslim-boy-6-mourned-illinois-af ter-attack-called/docview/2877619339/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Muslim Boy, 6, Mourned in Illinois After Attack Called Hate Crime

Author: Bosman, Julie; Smith, Mitch; Chiarito, Robert

Publication info: Bosman, Julie; Smith, Mitch; Chiarito, Robert. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/muslim-boy-6-mourned-illinois-after-attack-called/docview/2877571113/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
JOLIET, Ill. — At the front of an Illinois mosque, a short white coffin was draped in a Palestinian flag.
The boy inside, a Lego-loving, 6-year-old soccer fan named Wadea Al-Fayoume, was too young to have understood the complicated politics of the place his Palestinian parents left behind, or of this country where he was being raised. But, the authorities in suburban Chicago said, he became a casualty of those divisions nonetheless.
Wadea, who should have been at school on Monday, was instead mourned by an enormous crowd that filled the large mosque in Bridgeview, Illinois, and spilled outside. Prosecutors said that he was stabbed to death over the weekend in an attack motivated by hate for Muslims amid the fighting in Israel and Gaza. A short drive away from the mosque, Wadea’s 71-year-old landlord, who was charged in his killing, was making his initial appearance in court.
Family members and friends remembered Wadea as a kind child who loved swimming, jumping and playing games, and celebrated his birthday only days ago. Wadea’s mother, Hanan Shaheen, who was seriously injured in the attack, was still recovering and not able to attend the funeral, according to Ahmed Rehab, the executive director of the Chicago office of the Council on American-Islamic Relations.
“This is a heavy day that we hoped would never come. As they say, the smallest coffins are the heaviest,” Rehab said.
The killing on Saturday drew condemnations from President Joe Biden and Attorney General Merrick Garland, as well as outpourings of grief from Muslim leaders across the country, many of whom saw the attack as an outgrowth of overheated or one-sided rhetoric about the fighting overseas.
In interviews at the mosque and at a news conference before the funeral, Muslims described their frustration with politicians, including Biden, who had voiced support for Israel, and with American journalists, who they said often took Israel’s side and did not fully reflect the humanity of Palestinian people.
Since the start of the fighting overseas, and especially since the stabbing over the weekend, several Muslims in the Chicago area said they feared increasingly for the physical safety of their families.
Fariz Burhanuddin, 37, who is Muslim of Indian heritage, said he and his wife were struggling with how to talk to their own young son about the stabbing.
“I’m searching for the words,” he said. “How do you tell a 5-year-old about something like this?”
At the same time mourners were gathering in Bridgeview, the man accused of the killing was appearing in court in Joliet, Illinois, about 30 miles away.
In court documents, prosecutors described the landlord, Joseph M. Czuba, as angry, erratic, paranoid and violent. He has been charged with murder and hate crimes.
Czuba had been listening to conservative radio coverage of the Middle East war in the days before the attack, prosecutors said, and wanted his Palestinian American tenants to move out of his building. He was increasingly concerned that he was in personal danger because of his connection to them, they said.
Judge Donald W. DeWilkins ordered Czuba held in jail without the possibility of release. Czuba appeared in court hunched and disheveled with matted hair, and answered quietly with “Yes, sir” when questioned by the judge.
He faces charges of first-degree murder, attempted first-degree murder, two counts of a hate crime and aggravated battery with a deadly weapon. In court, Czuba requested a public defender.
Outside the Bridgeview mosque where the funeral was held, large crowds gathered, their cars filling the parking lot and spilling into side streets. Police officers from across the Chicago area were stationed on the streets surrounding the mosque.
After the charges were announced, officials in Illinois and Washington swiftly issued statements condemning the attack. Biden said that he was “shocked and sickened” and that “this horrific act of hate has no place in America.” Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois, a Democrat, said that “to take a 6-year-old child’s life in the name of bigotry is nothing short of evil.”
Garland announced a federal hate crimes investigation and said that “this incident cannot help but further raise the fears of Muslim, Arab and Palestinian communities in our country with regard to hate-fueled violence.” The FBI said it was working the case.
“No one in the United States of America should have to live in fear of violence because of how they worship or where they or their family come from,” Garland added.
Czuba had rented two rooms in his home in Plainfield Township, about 40 miles southwest of downtown Chicago, to Shaheen, 32, and her son. On Saturday, the morning of the attack, Shaheen told investigators, Czuba knocked on her bedroom door and told her that he was angry about the war in Israel.
“Let’s pray for peace,” she responded, according to investigators.
But Czuba immediately attacked with a knife, forcing her to flee to a bathroom and lock herself inside, where she called 911. After the police arrived, her son was found stabbed 26 times and unresponsive in his bedroom.
Mary Czuba, Czuba’s wife, told investigators that he had recently become very interested in the conflict in the Middle East and was worried that Shaheen was going to “call over her Palestinian friends or family to harm him,” according to prosecutors.
Mary Czuba also told the authorities that her husband had made a cash withdrawal of $1,000 to prepare for the electrical grid failing in the United States.
Suburban Chicago has a large Palestinian American community, including an area with many Arab restaurants and shops that some refer to as Little Palestine. The attack on Saturday happened in a different part of the suburbs, in a home along a busy stretch of highway near a Chevrolet dealership and a barbecue restaurant. The property was adorned with several American flags, an advertisement for organic honey and a sign asking people to pray to end abortion.
A neighbor, Mariola Jagodzinski, who lives two houses away, described Wadea as “a playful child — really full of energy.” She said she had helped Joseph Czuba build a treehouse for the boy a couple of years ago.
“I cannot imagine what the parents are going through,” she said. “As a parent, this is heartbreaking.”
The assault on Saturday came amid increasing violence between Israel and Hamas, the Palestinian group that controls the Gaza Strip.
On Oct. 7, Hamas unleashed a surprise attack against Israel that left more than 1,400 Israelis dead, prompting intense retaliation that has killed about 2,800 people in Gaza, according to officials there. Across the Middle East, fears of a widening conflict and worsening humanitarian crisis were mounting.
Within the United States, Muslim and Jewish congregations have stepped up security, and law enforcement officials have said they are monitoring for potential hate crimes and other attacks.
Brendan Kelly, the director of the Illinois State Police, said everyone in his state “must remain on guard against both terrorism and hate crimes during this period of volatility.”
At the mosque where Wadea was mourned, many said they hoped the boy’s death would force a recalculation of the American discourse on Israelis and Palestinians. The alternative, they feared, could be a return to the days after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when Muslims across the country were victims of hate crimes and worried about their safety.
“Have we not learned anything from 9/11?” Imam Omar Suleiman said outside the mosque. “Do we really want to live those dark years again?”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Violence; Murders & murder attempts; Muslims; Stabbings

Location: Chicago Illinois; Middle East; Gaza Strip; New York; United States--US; Israel; Illinois

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Hamas; Death And Dying; United States; Czuba, Joseph M; Politics And Government; Illinois; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Mayorkas, Alejandro; Muslims And Islam; Defense And Military Forces; Polls And Public Opinion; Gaza Strip; Garland, Merrick B; War And Armed Conflicts; Assaults; Palestinians; Israel; United States Politics And Government; Muslim Americans; Discrimination; Middle East; Hate Crimes; International Relations; Nine One One (911) (Emergency Phone Number); Homeland Security Department; Democratic Party; Pritzker, J B; Palestinian Americans; Al Fayoume, Wadea (2017 23); United States International Relations; Anti Semitism; Council On American Islamic Relations; Children And Childhood; Merrick (Ny); Chicago (Ill); Terrorism; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Funerals And Memorials; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Muslim Boy, 6, Mourned in Illinois After Attack Called Hate Crime

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-17T00:34:33Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2877571113

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/muslim-boy-6-mourned-illinois-after-attack-called/docview/2877571113/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright Ne w York Times Company Oct 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Devo's Look at the Future Was Clear: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Pareles, Jon

Publication info: Pareles, Jon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/devos-look-at-future-was-clear/docview/2877063909/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Half a century after Devo began singing about cultural De-Evolution, the visionary new wave band would have preferred to be wrong.
Devo isn't overjoyed about being prescient. The band got started half a century ago as a satirical art statement. But by now, much of what Devo mocked has become inescapable. Gerald Casale, who founded Devo with Mark Mothersbaugh, said, "If somebody would have told you 50 years ago where we would be at as a culture now, you probably wouldn't have believed it. Neither would I. But here we are."
Devo's lone hit, "Whip It" in 1980, only reached No. 14 in the United States. But the influence of Devo's buzzy, blippy synthesizer tones, its robotic moves and its re-contextualized retro graphics has grown ubiquitous, from commercials to cartoons and perhaps even into K-pop, where synthesizers, uniforms and tightly synced dance routines reign. This year, with a continuing world tour and a new, 50-song boxed set, "50 Years of De-Evolution" -- a knowing assortment of hits and obscurities -- Devo is savoring and reasserting its legacy.
"I think they're highly underrated in terms of the zeitgeist," Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails said in a phone interview. "Devo challenged the idea of what a rock band could be. It felt like rock was mutating. It made me realize, 'Oh, there aren't any rules. You know, you can do anything."'
Devo's ideas grew out of anger, political disillusionment, visual instincts, sonic ambitions, skepticism about rock and an absurdist sense of humor. Its abiding streak of outsider independence was forged in Akron, Ohio, where the band spent its formative years before finding a national audience on the early punk circuit. "It worked to our advantage to be in a cultural wasteland for years," Mothersbaugh, 73, said from his Los Angeles studio, Mutato Muzika.
Devo envisioned American culture evolving in the wrong directions, or devolving: dumbing down, losing individuality, succumbing to corporate imperatives and treating people as machines while anesthetizing itself with consumption. Those trends, to put it mildly, have not reversed.
"We were noticing an exponential increase in a certain kind of dysfunction going on. And we labeled it," said Casale, who is 75. He was also in Los Angeles, sitting in front of a favorite interview backdrop: a sliced-up world map with the word "DE-EVOLUTION" emblazoned across it. "But it was mostly, you know, a smartass college guy being clever. I didn't really think that we'd go where we went, because de-evolution is real. And this is beyond my worst dystopian nightmare."
Devo anticipated the ascent of music videos in the 1980s, conceiving its early songs as inseparable from surreal short films. (The band expected video Laserdiscs to replace albums; it didn't happen. The "visual album" would arrive much later.) By the early 1980s, Devo's concerts had the band interacting with video footage, despite the era's primitive technology. And decades before social media or influencers, Devo foresaw that artists and other public figures would end up marketing themselves as brands.
Yet Devo's founders also went on to participate in the mainstream consumer culture they distrusted. "We understood that dichotomy and that duplicity from the beginning," Casale said. "We were playing with it. You know, having your cake and eating it, too. Making fun of corporations and being one. You have to suck it up and be an adult about it."
Since the 1980s, in the increasingly long gaps between Devo's albums and tours, both Casale and Mothersbaugh have had extensive careers in film and advertising. Casale has directed music videos for acts including the Cars, Soundgarden and Foo Fighters, and Mothersbaugh has composed music for more than 150 films, television shows and video games, among them "Pee-wee's Playhouse," "The Royal Tenenbaums," "The Lego Movie" and "Cocaine Bear." The closing song on "50 Years of De-Evolution," "Watch Us Work It," was initially commissioned for a Dell computer ad.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Devo's founders studied visual arts at Kent State University, where on May 4, 1970, the Ohio National Guard shot dead four antiwar protesters. The school shut down the next day, and in the unexpected hiatus, Casale, Mothersbaugh and some friends began conceptualizing what would become Devo.
"We learned from Kent State that rebellion is obsolete," Mothersbaugh said. "If the government doesn't agree with you, and you become too big of a pain in the butt for them, they just push you back down and shoot.
"And I was thinking, well, who does change things in this world?" he continued. "Look at TV. It's Madison Avenue. It's commercials. It's subversion. You get people to eat sugar that's not good for them. You get them to buy cars that are stupid and not well-designed. And they're happy when they do it. And we thought, what if you use those techniques for something else? What if you use those techniques to talk about de-evolution?"
Casale was in a blues band; Mothersbaugh was in a prog-rock band. Neither was satisfied with what rock had become by the early 1970s. Arena-rock featured preening, strutting, self-indulgent stars. Early punk was developing its own orthodoxy. "You know, 'You have to use these three chords and dress like this,' and you had to a have certain kind of lyric that was anti-intellectual rage," Casale said. "Devo was angry, but our anger was not misplaced, and it was certainly articulated, and it was not anti-intellectual. We were like punk scientists."
Devo coalesced as a band with Casale's and Mothersbaugh's brothers, both named Bob, on guitars, and the crisp, unswerving drummer Alan Myers. The band members' backgrounds show up on early recordings included on the "50 Years" set, like the 1974 "I'm a Potato"; it's a blues shuffle, but Casale was already singing about "De-evolution/Self execution/No solution."
Mothersbaugh was determined to change rock's sonic vocabulary, and he got his hands on an early Mini-Moog synthesizer. "One of the Futurists had said that the contemporary orchestra does not have the instruments that are capable of creating the sound of an industrial society," he said. "I wanted to know what the sounds were for 1972, 1973. I was thinking, 'We're watching the Vietnam War on television every night.' And so I'm thinking V-2 rockets, mortar blasts, ray guns. And I felt like TV commercials were using synthesizers more successfully than bands. I was looking to create a new soundscape for the world."
Devo's music quickly grew more dissonant and angular. Reznor described Devo's first albums as "a rock band with electronics that sound like they're from the TV repair shop thrown in," he said. "That informed me a lot about what the role of a synthesizer and electronics could be."
The band's early shows in Akron were largely greeted with indifference or hostility, a reception that only solidified the band's sense of purpose and idiosyncratic showmanship. They performed in uniforms bearing corporate-style logos; they honed stiff-limbed dance routines. They sometimes wore masks, plastic hairpieces or their distinctive "energy domes": tiered red plastic hats inspired by an Art Deco-era light fixture.
By the time Devo started national and international touring, they were as tightly rehearsed as they were eccentric, a stark contrast to the anarchic punk bands playing the same clubs. Their homemade films and videos introduced recurring characters like the adult-sized, falsetto-voiced infant Booji Boy and the crass Big Entertainment executive Rod Rooter, whose dialogue, Casale said, was drawn entirely from actual meetings. On the coasts and abroad, Devo found a fan base among artists and musicians; Brian Eno produced Devo's 1978 debut album, "Q: Are We Not Men? A:We are Devo!"
"They found different ways of getting under people's skin," said Martyn Ware, a founding member of the English electropop bands Human League and Heaven 17; he first saw Devo in the late 1970s. "The artiness of it all, this idea of the interaction with film and presenting yourself as almost Dadaist, was something that just completely entranced us. It felt more like a Futurist manifesto than a rock band. And with de-evolution, there's a little bit of Nostradamus there too."
Devo's third album, "Freedom of Choice," had Robert Margouleff, who had worked with Stevie Wonder, as associate producer. It brought out enough of a groove in the songs to yield a hit with "Whip It." For Devo, that was a decidedly mixed blessing.
Suddenly, its record company was paying attention. "When it finally was a hit, they were like, 'Do another "Whip It"! Do another "Whip It"!,"' Casale recalled. "We couldn't even imagine how to do that. We moved on. We were using different equipment, having different ideas, talking about different things, and we were incapable of making another 'Whip It."'
Record-company pressures, self-consciousness and the temptations of new technology took a toll on Devo's later albums. "Something went off the rails," Casale said bluntly. "It got very intricate, very busy, with too many little sounds. So it started just sounding like ditties, trinkets and children's music. Devo was always, like, humans playing like machines. Now suddenly it was machine music for real. So the interesting part of Devo -- playing tightly like robots but really doing it -- was buried.
"Toys do run away with you," he added. "We always cautioned about that, but there we were, including ourselves in the equation. We did say, 'We're all Devo.' We didn't exempt ourselves, and we proved it."
By the late 1980s, Devo's principals were building their other careers, and after the 1990 album "Smooth Noodle Maps," Devo didn't make another studio album for 20 years. Casale was directing while amassing songs he'd eventually record as Jihad Jerry and the Evildoers. Mothersbaugh had taken on the prodigious job of scoring "Pee-wee's Playhouse," composing for an entire show every week; it was the beginning of his prolific career writing soundtrack music. He's had enough unused material from films to release full-length instrumental albums like the 2021 "Mutant Flora," which began as additional music for "Thor: Ragnarok."
Mothersbaugh overcame ambivalence to start making commercials in the late 1980s. The first was for Hawaiian Punch, with dancing robots. "Yeah, I'm doing it -- but I'm making a commercial for sugar," he recalled thinking.
A decade earlier, an audience member had accused Devo of placing subliminal messages -- "submit and obey" -- in its first film, "In the Beginning Was the End: The Truth About De-Evolution." There were none, but Mothersbaugh hadn't forgotten the notion. He decided to add a subliminal message to the ad, intoning "Sugar is bad for you," under a blast of drums. He went on to place other messages -- "Question authority," "Choose your mutations carefully" -- in other ads. "I did about 30 commercials like that before I got caught," he said.
Devo also licensed its own songs to advertisers, sometimes with severe regrets afterward -- a cringe-worthy Swiffer ad rewriting "Whip It" -- and sometimes with a proud sense of subversion, like a beer ad using "Freedom of Choice," a song that mocks the illusion of freedom.
Through the decades, Devo has kept on touring, and its songs have continued to resonate with fans who can hear them as snarky predictions or present-day realities. Songs like "It's a Beautiful World" can now describe the way glossy social media presentations spawn anxiety and depression.
Yet Devo's upbeat music and jokey visuals have always defied the songs' more dire implications. "That's the ironic thing about Devo," Mothersbaugh said. "At the end of the day, we've always been hopelessly optimistic that even if it's only greed, there has to be some human trait that's going to avert total disaster. Because nobody wants total disaster, even though they do want to make a killing in the meantime. It's like, you could trade a little bit of your killing for people staying around another hundred thousand years."
De-evolution doesn't mean giving up hope. "I like the idea of the future," Mothersbaugh said. "I like seeing what's going to come. Sometimes you're really disappointed. But sometimes something amazing happens that you really love."
Photograph Top, from left, Bob Casale, Gerald Casale, Bob Mothersbaugh and Mark Mothersbaugh performing as Devo in the late 1970s. Above, a change in uniform. Below, Devo performing in Copenhagen this year on its world tour. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY RAY/GETTY IMAGES; ALLAN TANNENBAUM/IMAGES, VIA GETTY IMAGES; TOM LITTLE/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page AR15.

Subject: Bands; Television advertising; Music videos; Culture; Motion pictures; Blues music; Musical performances; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Television advertising Social networks

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US; Ohio

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/12/arts/music/devo-mothersbaugh-casale.html

Title: Devo's Look at the Future Was Clear:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 15, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2877063909

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/devos-look-at-future-was-clear/docview/2877063909/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Worried About Rising Waters? Try a House That Floats.: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kaysen, Ronda

Publication info: Kaysen, Ronda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/worried-about-rising-waters-try-house-that-floats/docview/2870653652/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Eventually, coastal cities threatened with rising tides and bigger storms could use not just the waterfront, but also the water, as places to build housing.
As sea levels rise and storms worsen, threatening the planet's fragile coastlines, some architects and developers are looking to the water not as a looming threat, but as a frontier for development.
"We want to change cities worldwide, we want to see how we can push the cities into the water," said Koen Olthuis, a Dutch architect and the founder of Waterstudio, an architectural firm that specializes in floating buildings. "I hope that in 50 years time, we look back at our cities and say, 'Well, floating structures, they are just part of this city recipe, they make sense, they add something to it, they bring us space, cheap houses, flexible cities."'
About 3 billion people, roughly half of the world's population, lives within 125 miles of a coastline, according to the Population Reference Bureau. Eventually, coastal cities could claim not just the waterfront, but also the water, building in their harbors, bays, canals and rivers.
It's already happening in the Netherlands. With a third of its land below sea level, the country has floating offices, a floating dairy farm and a floating pavilion. Floating buildings are often built atop concrete and foam pontoon foundations, allowing them to sit on the water, and rise and fall with currents.
Proponents of the design argue that these buildings protect the environment. While a 2022 study published in the Journal of Water & Climate Change found that floating structures can have a positive benefit, attracting birds to nest and providing habitat and food for sea life, the study also found that they can impact light, currents, wind patterns and water quality. .
A short ferry ride from central Amsterdam is Schoonschip, a community of 30 floating houses, half of them duplexes, on a canal in a former manufacturing neighborhood. The homes, made of wood, are built atop concrete bases and connected by a jetty.
The first residents arrived in 2019, more than a decade after the neighborhood was first conceived. Maarten Remmers, 43, a film producer, paid 450,000 euros for the three-story, three-bedroom home he lives in with his girlfriend and their two children. The house feels steadier than a boat, but sways with the currents. "If it storms, you really feel it, and you see the land dancing," he said.
The community of more than 100 people feels like a village, with shared e-bikes and cars, and a floating garden. His children, ages 7 and 9, fish and swim in the canal. "You wake up with birds, and ducks next to your window, or swans," he said.
While Mr. Remmers looks at his community as a sustainable one -- the homes have heat pumps, green roofs and are solar powered -- he does not see moving his family onto the water as a solution to rising sea levels, balking at the argument that floating cities are somehow a solution to climate change. "It's nonsense," he said. "If the whole city is flooded, then, OK, our house will float, but there's no reason to keep living there anymore."
Yet, as sea levels rise, low-lying countries like the Maldives are grappling with an existential threat, and building on the water is a way to create land from the encroaching sea. The government, in partnership with the developer Dutch Docklands, is building an entire floating neighborhood in a lagoon 10 minutes by boat from Malé, the nation's capital.
Next year, the first phase of the 5,000-modular unit development will open -- apartments, schools, shops and restaurants built on a floating landscape of serpentine jetties fitted together like Lego pieces. "That is the future," said Mr. Olthuis, the Dutch architect, who developed the master plan for the Maldives development.
But there are bureaucratic barriers. City building and zoning codes do not address floating houses and neighborhoods built on concrete and foam foundations. Even Amsterdam, a city of known for its houseboats, was not ready for a waterborne neighborhood like Schoonschip, and it took years to navigate the bureaucracy. "There were lots of times I was totally fed up with all the legislation," Mr. Remmers, who was involved in the development of the community, said. "It took so long."
Cities may not be prepared for floating neighborhoods, but they are familiar with yachts. So Nicolas Derouin and Arnaud Luguet, two French engineers, designed a yacht that looked like a condo, with a flat roof and open-concept floor plan. Lower the retractable hydraulic pilings down to the ocean floor, and the boat stabilizes. In a storm, the pilings and jack-up system can lift the boat out of the water, protecting it from a storm surge. In 2019, they built their first model -- the Arkup 75 -- selling it for over $ 4 million. (The owner is living on the 75-foot boat offshore from the mansion he is building in Miami, Mr. Derouin said.)
Now Arkup has a dozen orders placed for a smaller version, the Arkup 40, which sells for between $ 500,000 and $ 1.2 million, depending on configurations. The boats, with 660 square feet of indoor living space, and more than twice as much outdoor space, are being built in Indiana and will travel to Miami by truck.
Dock one outside a beach house and it acts as the ocean's answer to a pool house. "It becomes an extension of their waterfront property, like a guesthouse or a family room," Mr. Derouin said. Moor it far from shore and it is an isolated retreat. Lower the pilings and open the retractable decks of the Arkup 40 alongside another one, and you create a network of vessels far from land where you can walk from one boat to the other. "You create a floating villa," Mr. Derouin said. "You can really create a floating community." Top, as sea levels rise, developers are eyeing the water as the next frontier, potentially mooring yachts shaped like floating homes in Biscayne Bay in Miami. Above, the Maldives is building a floating neighborhood near its capital, with apartments, schools, shops and restaurants, as shown in this rendering. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, ARKUP; BELOW, DUTCH DOCKLANDS MALDIVES AND WATERSTUDIO) This article appeared in print on page RE13.

Subject: Architecture; Canals; Neighborhoods; Housing developments; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Housing developments

Location: Maldives

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/29/realestate/floating-houses-floods-climate-change.html

Title: Worried About Rising Waters? Try a House That Floats.:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 1, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2870653652

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/worried-about-rising-waters-try-house-that-floats/docview/2870653652/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

J.D. Vance Is Not Your Usual Political Opportunist: [Op-Ed]

Author: Cottle, Michelle

Publication info: Cottle, Michelle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/j-d-vance-is-not-your-usual-political-opportunist/docview/2870653624/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: J.D. Vance was trying to find his groove. I had just shown up at his office last week to interview the Ohio Republican about his first nine months in the Senate, where he has proved curiously hard to pigeonhole. As we sat down, Mr. Vance -- at 39, one of the chamber's youngest members -- squirmed in his ornate leather arm chair, complaining that it was uncomfortable. Whoever used it previously, he explained, had created a "giant ass print" that made it a poor fit for him.
Then the senator kicked a foot up on the low coffee table in front of him. This gave me a glorious view of his custom socks: a dark-red background covered with pictures of his 6-year-old son's face. On the far end of the table was a Lego set of the U.S. Capitol that his wife had bought him on eBay for Father's Day. With his crisp dark suit, casual manner and personal touches, Mr. Vance suddenly looked right at home. I suspected there was some grand metaphor in all this about the young conservative working to carve out his spot in this world of old leather and hidebound traditions.
I asked what had been his most pleasant discovery about life in the Senate. "I've been surprised by how little people hate each other in private," he offered, positing that much of the acrimony you see from lawmakers was "posturing" for TV. "There's sort of an inherent falseness to the way that people present on American media," he said.
This may strike many people as rich coming from Mr. Vance, who is one of the Republican Party's new breed of in-your-face, culture-warring, Trump-defending MAGA agitators. And indeed, Mr. Vance knows how to throw a partisan punch. Yet in these early days on the job, he has also adopted a somewhat more complicated political model, frequently championing legislation with Democrats, including progressives such as Elizabeth Warren and Tammy Baldwin.
Pragmatic bipartisan MAGA troll feels like a dizzyingly paradoxical line to toe. And it risks feeding into the larger critique of Mr. Vance as a political opportunist. This is, after all, the guy who won attention in the 2016 election cycle as a harsh conservative critic of Mr. Trump, only to undergo a stark MAGA makeover and spend much of his 2022 Senate race sucking up to the former president. "I don't know that I can disrespect someone more than J.D. Vance," Mitt Romney, the Utah senator and former Republican presidential nominee, told his biographer about the party's 2022 midterm contenders. "It's like, really? You sell yourself so cheap?"
Mr. Vance is not someone who would ignore such swipes. "Mitt Romney is one to talk about changing his mind publicly. He's been on every side of 35 different issues," he clapped back to Breitbart News.
But there seems to be something going on with Mr. Vance beyond the usual shape-shifting flip-floppery. He contends that his approach is the more honest, hopeful path to getting things done for the conservative grass roots. In his telling, he's not the cynical operator; his critics are.
In some respects -- especially with his defense of Mr. Trump -- the freshman senator is transparently full of bull. But when it comes to how to navigate and possibly even make progress in today's fractious G.O.P., not to mention this dysfunctional Congress, he may well be onto something.
Mr. Vance and I sat down on a morning when Congress was all in a dither over a possible government shutdown being driven by a spending fight among House Republicans. While sympathetic to his colleagues' concerns, Mr. Vance sees the battle as unfocused, unproductive and bad for the party.
"My sense is this shutdown fight will go very poorly for us unless we're very clear about what we're asking for," he told me. With different blocs of Republicans demanding different things, "that's just going to get confused, and the American people are going to punish us for it."
He argued that if the conservatives would hunker down and focus, they could get one major concession. "And we should be fighting for that one thing," he said. What did he think they should prioritize? "If we could get something real on border security, then that would be a deal worth taking."
Mr. Vance described himself as less an ideological revolutionary than a principled pragmatist. He did not go to Washington to blow up the system or overhaul how theSenate operates. He said his outlook was, "There are things I need to get done, and I will do whatever I need to do to do them."
If this means making common cause with the political enemy now and again, so be it. "I am a populist in a lot of my economic convictions, and so that will lead to opportunities to work with Democrats," he reasoned.
Mr. Vance's cross-aisle endeavors include teaming up with Ms. Warren to push legislation that would claw back compensation from bank executives who were richly paid even as they were "crashing their banks into a mountain," as Mr. Vance put it. He has joined forces with Ms. Baldwin on a bill that would ensure that technologies developed with taxpayer money are manufactured in the United States. He is working with Senators Amy Klobuchar and Ron Wyden on a bill to reduce thefts of catalytic converters. And in the coming weeks, his focus will be on pushing through railway safety reform that he and Ohio's senior senator, Sherrod Brown, introduced in the wake of the derailment disaster in East Palestine. That is the bill about which he was most optimistic. "We have 60 votes in private," he said.
Even if nothing makes it through this year, Mr. Vance is playing the long game. "Those productive personal relationships are quite valuable because they may not lead to an actual legislative package tomorrow, but they could two years from now," he said.
Squishy "relationship" talk can be dangerous in today's G.O.P., even for members of the relatively genteel Senate. Being labeled a RINO -- that is, a Republican in Name Only -- generally earns one the sort of opprobrium normally reserved for child sex traffickers.
But here's where his MAGA antics may provide a bit of cover. In his brief time in Washington, the senator has proved himself an eager and a prolific culture warrior. The first bill he introduced -- an important moment in any senator's career -- aimed to make English the nation's official language. In July, after the Supreme Court ruled against affirmative action in university admissions, he fired off a letter to the eight Ivy League schools, plus a couple of private colleges in Ohio, warning them to retain any records that might be needed for a Senate investigation of their practices. That same month, he introduced a bill to ban gender-affirming care for minors. He even waded into the hysteria last winter over the health risks of gas stoves. This month, he's out hawking a bill that would ban federal mask mandates for domestic air travel, public transit systems and schools, and bar those institutions from denying service to the maskless.
Perhaps most vitally, Mr. Vance remains steadfast in his support of Mr. Trump. In June, he announced he was putting a hold on all Justice Department nominees in protest of "the unprecedented political prosecution" of Mr. Trump. And he plans to work hard as a surrogate to return the MAGA king to the White House. "I'm thinking about trying to be as active a participant as possible."
His critique of Mr. Trump's critics can be brutal.
"Trump is extraordinarily clarifying on the right and extra confusing on the left," he said. The hatred for Trump among progressives is so strong that people cannot see past it to acknowledge the former president's "good parts," he contended. While among conservatives, "Trump has this incredible capacity to identify really, who the good people are on the right and who the bad people are on the right."
Elaborating on the "bad" category, he points to former Representative Liz Cheney and the neoconservative writer Bill Kristol. "They say, 'Donald Trump is an authoritarian' -- which I think is absurd. 'Donald Trump is anti-democratic' -- which, again, in my view is absurd. I think they're hiding their real ideological disagreements," he argued.
Mr. Vance is entitled to his view, of course. But glibly rejecting stated concerns about Mr. Trump's anti-democratic inclinations -- and characterizing his critics' reactions as "obsessive" -- would strike many as the real absurdity.
Asked specifically about Mr. Trump's election fraud lies, which Mr. Vance has at times promoted, the senator again shifted into slippery explainer mode. "I think it's very easy for folks in the press to latch onto the zaniest election fraud or stolen election theories and say, 'Oh this is totally debunked,"' he said. "But they ignore that there is this very clear set of institutional biases built into the election in 2020 that -- from big tech censorship to the way in which financial interests really lined up behind Joe Biden."
"People aren't stupid. They see what's out there," he said. "Most Republican grass roots voters are not sympathetic to the dumbest version of the election conspiracy. They are sympathetic to the version that is actually largely true."
Except that, as evidence of what is "actually largely true," Mr. Vance pointed to a 2021 Time article detailing a bipartisan effort not to advance a particular candidate but to safeguard the electoral system. More important, the "dumbest" version of the stolen election conspiracy is precisely what Mr. Trump and his enablers have been aggressively spreading for years. It is what drove the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, landed many rioters in prison, led to Fox News paying a $ 787.5 million defamation settlement and prompted grand juries to indict Mr. Trump in federal and state courts. Mr. Vance may want to believe that most Republicans are too smart to buy such lunacy, but he is too smart not to recognize the damage to American democracy being wrought by that lunacy.
As for those who criticize his approach, Mr. Vance saw them as out of sync with voters. The conservative grass roots are "extremely frustrated with Washington not doing anything," he said. "I think if you are a critic of them -- if you are a critic of the way they see the world -- you see people who want to blow up the system. Who are just pissed off. And they want fighters." And not necessarily fighters who are "directed" or strategic in their efforts, he said, so much as just anyone who channels that rage.
By contrast, "if you're sympathetic to them and you like them," he continued, you understand that "the problem is not that people don't bitch enough or complain enough on television." Rather, it's that voters are fed up that "nothing changes" even when they "elect successive waves of different people. So I actually think being a bridge builder and getting things done is totally consistent with this idea that people are pissed off at the government as do-nothing."
When I asked how Mr. Vance defined his political positioning, he abruptly popped out of his chair and hurried over to his desk. He returned with a yellow sticky note on which he drew a large grid. Along the bottom of the paper he scrawled "culture" and on the left side, "commerce." He started drawing dots as he explained: "I think the Republican Party has tended to be here" -- top right quadrant, indicating a mix of strong cultural and pro-business conservatism. He added, "I think the Democratic Party has tended to be here," pointing to the bottom left quadrant, which in his telling represents a strong liberal take on both. "And I think the majority, certainly the plurality of American voters -- and maybe I'm biased because this is my actual view -- is somewhere around here," he said, placing them on the grid to suggest that people are "more conservative on cultural issues but they are not instinctively pro-business."
Mr. Vance reminded me that he has always been critical of his party's pro-business bias. And it is primarily in this space that he is playing nice with Democrats.
Bridge builder. Deal maker. MAGA maniac. Trump apologist. Call Mr. Vance whatever you want. And if you find it all confused or confusing, don't fret. That may be part of the point. Mr. Trump's Republican Party is something of a chaotic mess. Until it figures out where it is headed, a shape-shifting MAGA brawler who quietly works across the aisle on particular issues may be the best this party has to offer.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNA MONEYMAKER/GETTY IMAGES; MEGAN JELINGER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page SR5.

Subject: Conservatism; Government shutdowns; Voter fraud; Politics; Critics; Government mandates

Business indexing term: Subject: Government shutdowns

Location: United States--US; Ohio

People: Trump, Donald J; Romney, W Mitt

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/26/opinion/jd-vance-trump.html

Title: J.D. Vance Is Not Your Usual Political Opportunist:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 1, 2023

column: Michelle Cottle

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2870653624

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/j-d-vance-is-not-your-usual-political-opportunist/docview/2870653624/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 1, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In 'Horror Story,' Kim Kardashian Skims the Surface: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Soloski, Alexis

Publication info: Soloski, Alexis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/horror-story-kim-kardashian-skims-surface/docview/2868520922/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In her debut on Wednesday night, Kardashian seemed to treat the series with the same unblinking resolve she applies to any business venture.
Kim Kardashian is a reality star, a tabloid sensation, a prison-reform advocate, a beauty and shapewear mogul and a former video vixen. As of Wednesday night, she is also a member of the Ryan Murphy extended universe, with a series regular role in FX's "American Horror Story: Delicate." (It is also streaming on Hulu.) She plays Siobhan, the high-gloss publicist employed by Emma Roberts's Anna Victoria Alcott, an actress attempting an Oscar campaign as she undergoes a third cycle of in vitro fertilization.
Siobhan first appears in an impossibly vast Manhattan office, silhouetted against a view that makes downtown high-rises look like so many Lego towers. Immaculately groomed and entirely self-possessed, Siobhan bestrides the world of public relations like an expertly contoured colossus. Her jacket is an unholy combination of blazer and bustier. Her earrings are deconstructed McDonald's arches. Her ponytail scrapes the sky.
Her first line, a threat aimed at the directing duo the Daniels ("Everything Everywhere All at Once"), is gleefully profane and wholly unpublishable. She follows it with, "It's exhausting being better than everyone," though she doesn't sound exhausted at all.
Throughout the episode, Siobhan's face remains smooth, untroubled, even when Anna receives cryptic threats, like a doll in her likeness with a black X on its tummy, left for her in the green room of "Watch What Happens Live With Andy Cohen."
"Oh my God, Andy's so funny," Siobhan says, barely looking up from her phone. If you could bottle her blasé, it would sell for more than Crème de la Mer.
Kardashian's entry into semi-prestige television was not exactly an auspicious one. "American Horror Story: Delicate" continued shooting even after the Writers Guild of America had authorized its strike. Most other shows had shut down -- in solidarity, to avoid crossing picket lines -- but "Delicate" persevered, despite vociferous protests outside Silvercup Studios in Queens, where the series was filmed.
Seemingly unaware of the conflict, Kardashian sent a tweet in mid-June: "Hi guys! I'm on set of AHS and we have some time between shots. What are you all up to????"
The actor and writer Joel Kim Booster had perhaps the driest response: "Picketing, Kim."
Whether or not you consider Kardashian an actress likely depends on your opinion of the truth value of the unscripted show that made her famous, "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," which ran on E! from 2007 to 2021. A related series, "The Kardashians," premiered on Hulu last year. (It returns for a new season next week.)
In her other television and film appearances, she has mostly played herself. (An exception, in tones that have shifted over the years from sexy baby to elegant gravel: voice-overs for "PAW Patrol: The Movie" and "American Dad!") But Murphy has a long history of diva-forward stunt casting. Past "American Horror Story" participants have included Naomi Campbell, Stevie Nicks, Lady Gaga, Patti LaBelle. Kardashian, in her fitted outfits, fits right in.
This is her first appearance in the horror genre, unless you count the home tour she offered to Vogue in 2019. (Remember that sink?) How her character contributes to the larger story, which seems to center on Anna's fertility and a black-clad beldam played by Julie White, remains unknown. So far, Siobhan seems designed to dismiss Anna's fears and anxieties, an odd role for a woman who has fought to be taken seriously and has had horrific experiences mocked.
And yet, there is an exquisite symmetry in casting Kardashian as a publicist, a woman wholly concerned with surfaces. Kardashian is a master of self-presentation who has made her face and figure into several fortunes. One of the truest things her former husband Kanye West ever said was to GQ in 2014: "In order to win at life, you need some Kim K skills, period." But that face has its limitations. In her scenes as Siobhan, her plump lips open and close. Her lashes occasionally flutter. Otherwise those beautiful features do not move. Kardashian suggests the polished stillness of a mountain lake or new veneers: perfect, uncanny.
In a teaser for the show, posted Wednesday, Kardashian appears in a white-blonde wig, with red lips, an undead pallor and the false eyelashes typically favored by Liza Minnelli impersonators. "Anytime you try something, you just have to have the intention of growing and challenging yourself," she tells the camera in a behind-the-scenes clip. "Then you just kind of release and have fun."
She does not look as if she were having fun. She seems to treat the series with the same unblinking resolve she applies to any business venture -- curated shoes, shapewear, an emoji app. Is this acting? Is it being? In a role that has so far involved pecking at a phone and murmuring about the Time 100 in a raspy drawl, does the difference even matter? This confusion of person and persona is also a Kim K skill. Does that scare you?
Photograph Kim Kardashian plays a Manhattan publicist in the new season of "American Horror Story." (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC LIEBOWITZ/FX) This article appeared in print on page C5.

Subject: Actors

People: Kardashian, Kim

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/21/arts/television/kim-kardashian-american-horror-story-delicate.html

Title: In 'Horror Story,' Kim Kardashian Skims the Surface:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 26, 2023

column: Reporter's Notebook

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2868520922

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/horror-story-kim-kardashian-skims-surface/docview/2868520922/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2868520917/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: PHARMACEUTICALS
Production Is Restarting At a Critical Drug Plant
A major Pfizer pharmaceutical plant in Rocky Mount, N.C., that makes critical supplies for U.S. hospitals has restarted production about 10 weeks after it was heavily damaged by a tornado, the company announced on Monday.
The plant produces anesthesia and other drugs as well as nearly one-fourth of the sterile injectable medications Pfizer supplies to U.S. hospitals, the company said.
Full production across the facility's three manufacturing sites is expected by the end of the year.
Thirteen medicines were prioritized based on patient need and inventory levels and are now back in production on the lines that have restarted, Pfizer said. The medicines are expected to ship to distribution centers in the fourth quarter of this year.
Although manufacturing has resumed, the company said some medicines may not be back in full supply until next year. ASSOCIATED PRESS
TOYS
Lego Drops One Attempt At Recycling but not Goal
Lego, the world's largest toymaker, said on Monday that it remains committed to finding sustainable materials to reduce carbon emissions, even after an experiment by the company to use recycled bottles did not work. Lego said it has "decided not to progress" with making its trademark colorful bricks from recycled plastic bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate, known as PET. After more than two years of testing, the company said, it "found the material didn't reduce carbon emissions."
Still, the toymaker remains "fully committed to making Lego bricks from sustainable materials by 2032," it said.
Two years ago, the privately-held group, which makes its bricks out of oil-based plastic, started researching a potential transition to recycled plastic bottles made of PET plastic, which doesn't degrade in quality when recycled. ASSOCIATED PRESS
AUTOMAKERS
Nissan to Go All Electric For Cars Sold in Europe
Nissan said on Monday that as of now, all new models that it introduces in Europe will be fully electric and that it plans to sell only electric vehicles on the continent by 2030.
The Japanese carmaker said one of two new electric models that it had already confirmed for Europe would be manufactured at its Sunderland plant in England.
Earlier this year, Nissan raised its targets for electric models as it plays catch-up in a segment dominated by newcomers, saying it would introduce 19 by 2030.
Nissan previously said that by its 2026 fiscal year, ending on March 31, 2027, 98 percent of its sales in Europe would be electrified - either fully electric cars or hybrids, which have both a large battery and a combustion engine.
The new goal of going fully electric in Europe by 2030 brings Nissan in line with its alliance partner, Renault, which plans to make the brand all electric by then. REUTERS
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN NACKSTRAND/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Sustainable materials; Toy industry; Polyethylene terephthalate; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Sustainable materials Toy industry

Location: United States--US; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Pfizer Inc; NAICS: 325412, 339113

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/25/business/26bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2868520917

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2868520917/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Finding a Better Way to Build: [Climate]

Author: Kamin, Debra

Publication info: Kamin, Debra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/finding-better-way-build/docview/2866624834/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Governments are weighing both regulations and incentives to cut emissions and energy use in new construction.
This article is part of our special section on the Climate Forward event that will include policy and climate leaders from around the world.
Charlotte the child is active: running, playing, giggling while she rides her bike. But her namesake, Charlotte the condo building, is passive. Its airtight rooms use a fraction of the energy required by the buildings around it, staying cool in the summer and warm in the winter, while light-soaked and quiet.
Buildings account for nearly 40 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions, and on a rapidly warming planet, the pressure on the construction industry to build more sustainably is mounting fast.
Governments are placing restrictions on buildings' energy use and greenhouse gas emissions while tech companies are tapping automation and robotics to build smarter and more sustainably. And architects are increasingly considering resiliency and efficiency in their designs. Reducing emissions is one of the topics that will be discussed by leaders in business, science and public policy during The New York Times Climate Forward event on Thursday.
Charlotte of the Upper West Side, an eight-story condo on Columbus Avenue in Manhattan, is an example of how emission reduction was incorporated from the start.
It is one of a growing number of residential projects in New York City to receive Passive House certification: a climate-focused stamp of approval saved for insulated buildings that slash their energy usage by up to 75 percent compared to those around them. The developer, John Roe, named it after his 4-year-old daughter, and he said he approached Passive House certification as the ultimate amenity.
"To achieve true wellness, you can't do it without sustainability," he said.
But Charlotte, one of about 65 Passive Houses in New York City, also will have a significant advantage next year when Local Law 97, a cornerstone of former Mayor Bill de Blasio's Climate Mobilization Act, goes into effect.
The law, part of a series of steps devised to shrink the city's carbon emissions by 80 percent by 2050, will require any building of more than 25,000 square feet in New York City to meet new energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emission standards or risk fines each year. The penalties are stiff: $ 268 for every metric ton of carbon dioxide above the allotted limit, which studies estimate could amount to $ 200 million per year in penalties for some buildings. And it's a two-tier process, with initial caps being rolled out in 2024 and stricter ones looming in 2030, when fines could jump to $ 900 million per year for buildings that aren't in line.
Bridget Gainer, a vice president at the risk management firm Aon who currently also serves as commissioner of Cook County in Illinois, said laws like this were crucial to encouraging more sustainable building. "Everyone is responding to some sort of incentive, be it negative or positive," she said.
Besides government mandates, Ms. Gainer added, another force pushing the real estate industry toward sustainability today is insurance companies, which are increasingly pulling out of areas at risk of extreme weather and prompting home buyers to ask harder questions when considering properties.
"People are thinking, 'Am I going to be able to get insurance?', which is what allows them to ultimately get a mortgage," she said. "They are demanding far more resilient rebuilds, or else no one will want to insure their house."
Developers are increasingly looking for an overlap between building with resilience to extreme weather and building with more sustainable methods and materials, she said. And while new regulations are effective, Jeff Hendler, chief executive of the smart building software company Logical Buildings, said incentives were having an impact, too.
"It takes both the carrot and the stick to accelerate the change," he said.
Mr. Roe estimates he spent more than $ 90 million on Charlotte of the Upper West Side, which opened this spring. All units have four bedrooms with individualized ventilation, heating and cooling systems, and start at $ 9.95 million.
Todd Poisson of the firm BKSK Architects knew he would have to get inventive with his plans for the project, which he converted from a three-story commercial structure into a seven-unit, low-energy luxury condo building.
Now, four panes of triple-glazed glass act as a thermal cushion on the building's windows, while its facade, lined with terra-cotta baguettes -- long, slender ceramic pipes stacked in neat vertical lines -- that block the high summer sun while coaxing in extra light from the lower winter sun, regulate interior temperatures in even the most extreme weather.
"The thermal comfort inside is even, and the building doesn't need heating or cooling at the window wall as much as a typical building would," Mr. Poisson said. "Energy use is significantly less."
Mr. Hendler said he believed that creative ideas to combat climate change in the built environment were being rolled out largely because "younger people who grew up with climate change, who were little when Hurricane Katrina hit, are now the decision makers."
His company, Logical Buildings, is one of a handful that have created software to help buildings understand, then cut, their power usage.
Using a custom app and new smart meters from the local utility company, Con Edison, Logical Buildings works with owners of both private homes and multifamily buildings to lower energy usage. It's a service that comes in handy for those looking to enroll in programs like Demand Response, in which energy suppliers pay customers a bonus when they use less power.
"Paying people to use less is an incredible accelerant to fighting climate change," Mr. Hendler said.
Offering a pathway to faster, more streamlined construction is another.
At least that's what Amit Haller, chief executive of the building technology company Veev, believes.
In 2017 Mr. Haller, realizing that the process of erecting a single house was fragmented between carpenters, electricians, plumbers and builders, began exploring construction technology in a bid to offer a more efficient way to build a home.
At his company's factory outside San Francisco, he creates prefabricated closed walls with electrical, piping and heating and cooling elements already inside and delivers them to single-family home builders in Texas and California. Like life-size Lego pieces, they arrive ready to be assembled, cutting carbon emissions during the building process by as much as 50 percent.
"People don't think about the home as a product, but it's the most expensive product we'll ever buy in our lives," Mr. Haller said. "And there are so many inefficiencies with how they're built. We thought things should be done better."
They are part of a crowded new market.
Eco Material Technologies and HIVE 3D are producing near-zero-carbon 3D-printed homes in Texas, using a proprietary cement mixture that they say can be produced with 92 percent lower emissions than traditional concrete.
Plantd is creating building materials using perennial grass; Hempstone is turning to the power of hemp, which has been popular in European buildings since the 1990s, to produce sustainable insulation for structures in New England with a combination of hemp and lime. And straw bale construction -- which contrary to the tale of the Three Little Pigs, offers superior protection from fire damage than traditional materials and thermal insulation that can be three times more effective than other building methods -- is gaining a foothold in California, where wildfire risk looms larger every season.
On a national level, the real estate industry has yet to truly respond to climate change, said L. Carl Fiocchi, a senior lecturer in the Building and Construction Technology Program at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst. But he's holding out hope for change at the local level.
At least 147 bills to cut carbon emissions from buildings have been introduced in 24 states just this year, according to the National Caucus of Environmental Legislators.
Cobble together the flurry of local regulations that are now forthcoming in cities across America, he added, and there is real potential for the industry's carbon footprint to shrink at last.
"The hope is that the silver lining in this enormously black cloud is that it drives states to start adopting these codes," he said.
Photograph Left, Charlotte of the Upper West Side is an eight-story condo on Columbus Avenue in Manhattan. Above, the building's facade is lined with terra-cotta baguettes -- long, slender ceramic pipes stacked in neat vertical lines -- that help regulate interior temperatures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE ETHEREDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Veev, a building technology company, creates prefabricated closed walls, right, with electrical, piping and heating and cooling elements already inside. Laurel Townhomes in San Carlos, Calif., above, were built with Veev walls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON WOJACK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page F13.

Subject: Cooling; Greenhouse gases; Emissions; Carbon; Sustainability; Fines & penalties; Energy; Emission standards; Architects; Climate change; Building construction

Business indexing term: Subject: Architects

Location: Texas; United States--US; California; New York City New York

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/20/realestate/building-construction-emissions-climate-change.html

Title: Finding a Better Way to Build:   [Climate ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 21, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866624834

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/finding-better-way-build/docview/2866624834/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Novo Nordisk Tilts G.D.P. In Denmark: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Nelson, Eshe

Publication info: Nelson, Eshe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/novo-nordisk-tilts-g-d-p-denmark/docview/2858547667/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Novo Nordisk, the Danish company behind two popular obesity medications, is reaping huge profits and is now responsible for most of the country's economic growth.
After 100 years of relatively quiet existence as a maker of diabetes drugs, the Danish firm Novo Nordisk has suddenly grown so big that the company is reshaping the Danish economy.
The reason: Ozempic and Wegovy, two drugs made by Novo Nordisk that have been proclaimed as revolutionary in the field of obesity.
The company's booming success now explains almost all of Denmark's recent economic growth, and the surge in overseas sales in the drugs is prompting the Danish central bank to keep interest rates lower than it otherwise would, economists say. In the past few weeks, Novo Nordisk's market value has exceeded the size of the Danish economy. Its soaring share price has made it the second-most valuable public company in Europe, after the luxury goods group LVMH.
The company's shadow is so expansive that Danish economists are now debating whether the country needs to publish another set of economic statistics that strips out Novo Nordisk. In other words, there's Novo Nordisk, and there's the rest of the economy.
Denmark, a country of under six million people, is no stranger to globally significant companies, such as Lego and the shipping giant Maersk, but the impact of Novo Nordisk on economic statistics is unique, economists say.
"We've never been in a situation like this in Denmark before where one single company has played such a large role," said Jens Naervig Pedersen, an economist at Danske Bank.
Last year, two-thirds of Denmark's economic growth could be attributed to the pharmaceutical industry, said Jonas Dan Petersen, a chief adviser at Denmark's national statistics agency, which doesn't provide company-specific data.
And the impact has grown even more stark: "Without the pharmaceutical industry, there was almost no growth" in economic output in the first quarter of this year from a year earlier, Mr. Petersen added. The Danish economy grew 1.9 percent over that period, with 1.7 percentage points of that contributed by pharma.
Denmark is the home of other pharmaceutical companies, but Novo Nordisk has far outpaced them. The company's revenue last year was about 10 times that of the next largest Danish pharmaceutical company, Lundbeck.
For a long time, Novo Nordisk was almost single-minded in its focus on tackling diabetes. But its new drugs are now heavily prescribed for weight loss, particularly in the United States. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Ozempic as a diabetes medication in 2017; the agency approved Wegovy in 2021.
Novo Nordisk's profit surged 45 percent to 39 billion Danish kroner, about $ 5.7 billion, in the first half of the year, driven by demand for the drugs. They are so successful that the company is struggling to keep up with the demand and is limiting supplies in the United States, while it tries to ramp up production.
Economists at the Danish statistics agency started looking closely at the influence of the pharmaceutical industry in the spring, when they were analyzing the gross domestic product data for the fourth quarter of 2022 and saw the large effect.
Later this week, when the agency publishes detailed economic output data for the second quarter, it will include, for the first time, a special section detailing the impact of the pharmaceutical industry on the economy, Mr. Petersen said.
Even though Denmark's pharmaceutical industry has had a substantial impact on economic growth data, there hasn't been a corresponding increase in employment. Over the past five years, the industry has added 3.4 percentage points to Denmark's growth but just 0.1 points to employment, Mr. Petersen said. That's why it's useful to provide the additional breakdowns in the economic data, he said.
"Especially for the economists who are trying to analyze the business cycle, this is very hard for them," he added, because it means the G.D.P. data isn't a "good signal" for the overall business cycle in Denmark.
Part of the reason is that much of Novo Nordisk's production takes place overseas, for example in the United States. Still, there are broad benefits for the Danish population. Novo Nordisk is the biggest contributor of corporation tax in Denmark, a boon for the country's public finances.
And the company is expected to only grow, because there are plenty of potential patients. More than 100 million American adults are obese, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
This month, the results of a five-year trial found that Wegovy slashed the risk of serious heart problems, a finding that could increase pressure on insurers to cover the drugs, and further expand their reach.
With all this money being made, and expected to be made, in the United States, economists say there is an influence on Denmark's currency.
"You have companies, such as Novo Nordisk, that have a greater need for exchanging foreign currency into Danish kroner, then you start to see an upward pressure emerge on the Danish krone," Mr. Pedersen of Danske Bank said. But Denmark keeps the krone pegged to the euro, so when the krone rises in value, "the central bank has to respond," he added.
The central bank has been spending kroner to buy foreign exchange and building up reserves. Because of these purchases, the central bank has also increased the gap between Denmark's interest rates and the ones set by the European Central Bank. By keeping the Danish interest rate slightly lower than the one in the eurozone -- currently 0.4 percentage points lower than the E.C.B.'s rate -- it should discourage foreign investors from holding the krone.
The central bank declined to comment for this article.
Some economists in Denmark worry that the country could become too dependent on Novo Nordisk, with fretful comparisons to the fate of the Finnish economy when Nokia lost its dominance in the cellphone industry. There are also concerns that so-called Dutch disease could come to Denmark, said Helge J. Pedersen, the chief economist at Nordea, referring to the economic phenomenon when a country suddenly experiences a large increase in income, which is seemingly good economic news, but it actually has a negative effect on the rest of the economy.
The term originated after the Dutch discovered vast natural gas reserves, leading to a large increase in exports in the 1960s. It caused the country's currency to soar, in the process making other exports expensive and uncompetitive and hampering the overall Dutch economy.
"There is a Denmark without Novo Nordisk, and that has to be taken into consideration when coming with recommendations to economic policy and wage agreements," Mr. Pedersen of Nordea said. "We need to be fairly modest because many Danish companies are also facing severe competition from abroad."
He sees more positives, however, than negatives for the Danish people when it comes to Novo Nordisk. The company's popularity could draw attention to the country, its education system and medical industry, as well as increasing the government's soft power. If it helps maintain Denmark's high-wage economy, it will also push other companies to be more innovative and efficient to stay competitive.
Mr. Pedersen grew up when the country had a current account deficit and recalls painful government fiscal policies to combat it. "Those were harsh times," he said. The current situation "gives a lot of economic policy freedom, no doubt about that."
Jasmina Nielsen contributed research.
Jasmina Nielsen contributed research.
Photograph While Denmark has other globally significant companies, like Lego and Maersk, Novo Nordisk's impact on economic statistics is unique, economists say. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLOTTE DE LA FUENTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Central banks; Interest rates; Economic growth; FDA approval

Business indexing term: Subject: Central banks Interest rates Economic growth FDA approval

Location: United States--US; Denmark

Company / organization: Name: Danske Bank AS; NAICS: 522110; Name: Novo Nordisk AS; NAICS: 325412, 541714

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/28/business/denmark-ozempic-wegovy.html

Title: Novo Nordisk Tilts G.D.P. In Denmark:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2858547667

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/novo-nordisk-tilts-g-d-p-denmark/docview/2858547667/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gun Toll Grows As Simple Device Adds To Carnage: [National Desk]

Author: Londoño, Ernesto; Thrush, Glenn

Publication info: Londoño, Ernesto; Thrush, Glenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gun-toll-grows-as-simple-device-adds-carnage/docview/2849425769/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Caison Robinson, 14, had just met up with a younger neighbor on their quiet street after finishing his chores when a gunman in a white car rolled up and fired a torrent of bullets in an instant.
"Mom, I've been shot!" he recalled crying, as his mother bolted barefoot out of their house in northwest Las Vegas. "I didn't think I was going to make it, for how much blood was under me," Caison said.
The Las Vegas police say the shooting in May was carried out with a pistol rigged with a small and illegal device known as a switch. Switches can transform semiautomatic handguns, which typically require a trigger pull for each shot, into fully automatic machine guns that fire dozens of bullets with one tug.
By the time the assailant in Las Vegas sped away, Caison, a soft-spoken teenager who loves video games, lay on the pavement with five gunshot wounds. His friend, a 12-year-old girl, was struck once in the leg.
These makeshift machine guns -- able to inflict indiscriminate carnage in seconds -- are helping fuel the national epidemic of gun violence, making shootings increasingly lethal, creating added risks for bystanders and leaving survivors more grievously wounded, according to law enforcement authorities and medical workers.
The growing use of switches, which are also known as auto sears, is evident in real-time audio tracking of gunshots around the country, data shows. Audio sensors monitored by a public safety technology company, Sound Thinking, recorded 75,544 rounds of suspected automatic gunfire in 2022 in portions of 127 cities covered by its microphones, according to data compiled at the request of The New York Times. That was a 49 percent increase from the year before.
"This is almost like the gun version of the fentanyl crisis," Mayor Quinton Lucas of Kansas City, Mo., said in an interview.
Mr. Lucas, a Democrat, said he believes that the rising popularity of switches, especially among young people, is a major reason fewer gun violence victims are surviving in his city.
Homicides in Kansas City are approaching record highs this year, even as the number of nonfatal shootings in the city has decreased.
Switches come in various forms, but most are small Lego-like plastic blocks, about an inch square, that can be easily manufactured on a 3-D printer and go for around $ 200.
Law enforcement officials say the devices are turning up with greater frequency at crime scenes, often wielded by teens who have come to see them as a status symbol that provides a competitive advantage. The proliferation of switches also has coincided with broader accessibility of so-called ghost guns, untraceable firearms that can be made with components purchased online or made with 3-D printers.
"The gang wars and street fighting that used to be with knives, and then pistols, is now to a great extent being waged with automatic weapons," said Andrew M. Luger, the U.S. attorney for Minnesota.
Switches have become a major priority for federal law enforcement officials. But investigators say they face formidable obstacles, including the sheer number in circulation and the ease with which they can be produced and installed at home, using readily available instruction videos on the internet. Many are sold and owned by people younger than 18, who generally face more lenient treatment in the courts.
Social media platforms like YouTube ban content that shows people how to make illegal weapons. However, such content is protected under the First Amendment and remains widely available online.
Federal law enforcement officials have contacted Glock, the company that produces a weapon that has come to define an entire class of easily available 9 millimeter handguns, in search of ways to modify the weapon to make it harder to attach switches. Carlos Guevara, a vice president at Glock, said the company has collaborated with law enforcement officials to target illegal sellers and users of switches but has determined the design of the pistol cannot be altered in that way.
In 2021, a man with a gun modified with a switch fired at two police officers in Houston, killing one and injuring the other. One of the gunmen in a 2022 gang shootout in Sacramento that left six dead and injured 12 people carried a gun fitted with a switch, according to the police. In recent months, shootings using modified weapons have been caught on camera in Milwaukee, prompting the city's mayor to compare the scene to a war zone.
Dr. James Miner, the chair of emergency medicine at Hennepin Healthcare in Minneapolis, which has the largest trauma center in Minnesota, said he first heard about switches in 2020 when he was trying to make sense of why gunshot victims were arriving at the hospital with numerous wounds and why more people seemed to be reporting being shot by stray bullets.
"It's more common now for someone to say: 'I was walking down the street and I heard the sound and all of a sudden my leg hurt, my chest hurt,"' he said. "Rather than: 'I was held up or I was involved in a drug deal gone wrong."'
Since the 1930s, federal laws have tightly restricted ownership of machine guns outside of the military and police departments. In 1986, Congress banned the production of new machine guns for civilian use, making them even more uncommon in the years that followed.
Devices to turn firearms fully automatic have existed for years, but they had not been a major concern for the authorities until recently.
In 2019, federal agents began seizing a significant number of switches imported from China, said Thomas Chittum, a former associate deputy director at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives who now oversees analytics and forensic services at Sound Thinking.
Soon, the authorities began seeing a rise in switches -- which in 2019 sold for as little as $ 19 -- in several major American cities. Between 2017 and 2021, the A.T.F. recovered 5,454 machine gun conversion parts, a 570 percent increase from the preceding five years.
Steven M. Dettelbach, director of the A.T.F., said that trend ominously echoed the days of "Al Capone and the Tommy gun," when criminals often had more firepower than law enforcement.
In an interview, he recalled having asked one of his advisers to bring an inexpensive 3-D printer to his office last year to show how a switch was made. The speed, ease and cheap cost, he said, were chilling.
He said they handed one to him "after a half-hour, 40 minutes."
The Justice Department has stepped up prosecutions of sellers and suppliers over the past few years. Under the Gun Control Act of 1968, it is a crime to manufacture a machine gun, a violation that carries a maximum of 10 years in prison. Last week, prosecutors in Chicago charged a 20-year-old man with selling 25 switches and a 3-D printer to an undercover agent. In November, federal prosecutors in Texas charged a supplier who, they assert, had sold thousands of switches -- shipping some inside of children's toys.
Switches are fast becoming embedded in youth culture, and have been the subject of rap songs and memes on social media. One of four teenagers accused in the killing of an off-duty Chicago police officer this year posted on the internet a song called "Switches," rapping "shoot the switches, they so fast" as he showed an arsenal of weapons.
Caison Robinson said he knew about switches before he was nearly killed by one. Teenagers he knew began bragging about having acquired the converted guns, often from older siblings, he said. They called the switches "buttons," he said, which came in several colors.
"It's become a thing you get to be cool," said Caison, who said in an interview that he tried to steer clear of armed cliques of teenagers in his Las Vegas neighborhood. "It's like a trend now."
His mother, Takeila Peebles, moved to Las Vegas from Chicago seven years ago. She said she thought he would be safer in their new city.
The day of the shooting, Ms. Peebles, who works in medical billing and as a chef from her home, told Caison he could go outside to play only after he tidied up his bedroom, threw in a load of laundry and vacuumed the stairs. When Caison finished his chores, around 3:45 p.m., he headed out. Not long after, she heard gunfire and caught a glimpse of a white Kia Optima speeding away.
A soldier in uniform who happened to be nearby saw what had happened and tended to Caison's wounds until a passing motorist rushed him to the hospital.
One bullet struck his colon, part of which had to be removed, medical officials say. Another pierced his liver. A third punched through a principal vein in his abdomen. The other bullets broke his femur and caused nerve damage to his forearm.
Investigators concluded that the shooting was tied to a gang dispute and that Caison was not the intended target. In late June, Hakeem Collette, 17, pleaded guilty to battery with a deadly weapon and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. He will be eligible for parole in two years.
Caison's mother, Ms. Peebles, said the punishment is outrageous, considering the anguish her family has experienced. For three weeks after her son was shot, she had a recurring nightmare in which she watched helplessly as Caison bled to death on the pavement.
Lately, Ms. Peebles said she often tiptoes into his bedroom to make sure he is still there.
"I'm always at a loss for words when I look at him," she said. "He's not a touchy person, but I just always want to hug him."
Photograph Switches, which are small Lego-like plastic blocks, are put on the back of handguns. (A1); With a switch, pistols can fire dozens of bullets with a single tug of the trigger. Automatic gunfire surged in 2022.; Dr. James Miner noticed gunshot victims in Minneapolis were arriving with numerous wounds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Caison Robinson, 14, survived five gunshot wounds from an attack with a modified gun. He was not the intended target. His mother, Takeila Peebles, came to his aid outside their home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIDGET BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Law enforcement; Social networks; Military weapons; Public prosecutors; 3-D printers; Gun violence; Criminal investigations; Firearm laws & regulations; Murders & murder attempts; Cities; Teenagers; Fatalities

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Kansas City Missouri; Minnesota; Las Vegas Nevada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/12/us/guns-switch-devices.html

Title: Gun Toll Grows As Simple Device Adds To Carnage:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 13, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849425769

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gun-toll-grows-as-simple-device-adds-carnage/docview/2849425769/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inexpensive Add-on Spawns a New Era of Machine Guns

Author: Londoño, Ernesto; Thrush, Glenn

Publication info: Londoño, Ernesto; Thrush, Glenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inexpensive-add-on-spawns-new-era-machine-guns/docview/2849343394/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LAS VEGAS — Caison Robinson, 14, had just met up with a younger neighbor on their quiet street after finishing his chores when a gunman in a white car rolled up and fired a torrent of bullets in an instant.
“Mom, I’ve been shot!” he recalled crying, as his mother bolted barefoot out of their house in northwest Las Vegas. “I didn’t think I was going to make it, for how much blood was under me,” Caison said.
Las Vegas police say the shooting in May was carried out with a pistol rigged with a small and illegal device known as a switch. Switches can transform semi-automatic handguns, which typically require a trigger pull for each shot, into fully automatic machine guns that fire dozens of bullets with one tug.
By the time the assailant in Las Vegas sped away, Caison, a soft-spoken teenager who loves video games, lay on the pavement with five gunshot wounds. His friend, a 12-year-old girl, was struck once in the leg.
These makeshift machine guns — able to inflict indiscriminate carnage in seconds — are helping fuel the national epidemic of gun violence, making shootings increasingly lethal, creating added risks for bystanders and leaving survivors more grievously wounded, according to law enforcement authorities and medical workers.
The growing use of switches, which are also known as auto sears, is evident in real-time audio tracking of gunshots around the country, data shows. Audio sensors monitored by a public safety technology company, SoundThinking, recorded 75,544 rounds of suspected automatic gunfire in 2022 in portions of 127 cities covered by its microphones, according to data compiled at the request of The New York Times. That was a 49% increase from the year before.
“This is almost like the gun version of the fentanyl crisis,” Mayor Quinton Lucas of Kansas City, Missouri, said in an interview.
Lucas, a Democrat, said he believes that the rising popularity of switches, especially among young people, is a major reason fewer gun violence victims are surviving in his city.
Homicides in Kansas City are approaching record highs this year, even as the number of nonfatal shootings in the city has decreased.
Switches come in various forms, but most are small Lego-like plastic blocks, about 1 inch square, that can be easily manufactured on a 3D printer and go for around $200.
Law enforcement officials say the devices are turning up with greater frequency at crime scenes, often wielded by teens who have come to see them as a status symbol that provides a competitive advantage. The proliferation of switches also has coincided with broader accessibility of so-called ghost guns, untraceable firearms that can be made with components purchased online or made with 3D printers.
“The gang wars and street fighting that used to be with knives, and then pistols, is now to a great extent being waged with automatic weapons,” said Andrew M. Luger, the U.S. attorney for Minnesota.
Switches have become a major priority for federal law enforcement officials. But investigators say they face formidable obstacles, including the sheer number in circulation and the ease with which they can be produced and installed at home, using readily available instruction videos on the internet. Many are sold and owned by people younger than 18, who generally face more lenient treatment in the courts.
Social media platforms like YouTube ban content that shows people how to make illegal weapons. However, such content is protected under the First Amendment and remains widely available online.
Federal law enforcement officials have contacted Glock, the company that produces a weapon that has come to define an entire class of easily available 9 mm handguns, in search of ways to modify the weapon to make it harder to attach switches. Carlos Guevara, a vice president at Glock, said the company has collaborated with law enforcement officials to target illegal sellers and users of switches but has determined the design of the pistol cannot be altered in that way.
In 2021, a man with a gun modified with a switch fired at two police officers in Houston, killing one and injuring the other. One of the gunmen in a 2022 gang shootout in Sacramento, California, that left six dead and injured 12 people carried a gun fitted with a switch, according to police. In recent months, shootings using modified weapons have been caught on camera in Milwaukee, prompting the city’s mayor to compare the scene with a war zone.
Dr. James Miner, the chair of emergency medicine at Hennepin Healthcare in Minneapolis, which has the largest trauma center in Minnesota, said he first heard about switches in 2020 when he was trying to make sense of why gunshot victims were arriving at the hospital with numerous wounds and why more people seemed to be reporting being shot by stray bullets.
“It’s more common now for someone to say: ‘I was walking down the street and I heard the sound and all of a sudden my leg hurt, my chest hurt,’” he said. “Rather than: ‘I was held up or I was involved in a drug deal gone wrong.’”
Since the 1930s, federal laws have tightly restricted ownership of machine guns outside of the military and police departments. In 1986, Congress banned the production of new machine guns for civilian use, making them even more uncommon in the years that followed.
Devices to turn firearms fully automatic have existed for years, but they had not been a major concern for authorities until recently.
In 2019, federal agents began seizing a significant number of switches imported from China, said Thomas Chittum, a former associate deputy director at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives who now oversees analytics and forensic services at SoundThinking.
Soon, authorities began seeing a rise in switches — which in 2019 sold for as little as $19 — in several major American cities. Between 2017 and 2021, the ATF recovered 5,454 machine gun conversion parts, a 570% increase from the preceding five years.
Steven M. Dettelbach, director of the ATF, said that trend ominously echoed the days of “Al Capone and the Tommy gun,” when criminals often had more firepower than law enforcement.
In an interview, he recalled having asked one of his advisers to bring an inexpensive 3D printer to his office last year to show how a switch was made. The speed, ease and cheap cost, he said, were chilling.
He said they handed one to him “after a half-hour, 40 minutes.”
The Justice Department has stepped up prosecutions of sellers and suppliers over the past few years. Under the Gun Control Act of 1968, it is a crime to manufacture a machine gun, a violation that carries a maximum of 10 years in prison. Last week, prosecutors in Chicago charged a 20-year-old man with selling 25 switches and a 3D printer to an undercover agent. In November, federal prosecutors in Texas charged a supplier who, they assert, had sold thousands of switches — shipping some inside children’s toys.
Switches are fast becoming embedded in youth culture, and have been the subject of rap songs and memes on social media. One of four teenagers accused in the killing of an off-duty Chicago police officer this year posted on the internet a song called “Switches,” rapping “shoot the switches, they so fast” as he showed an arsenal of weapons.
Caison Robinson said he knew about switches before he was nearly killed by one. Teenagers he knew began bragging about having acquired the converted guns, often from older siblings, he said. They called the switches “buttons,” he said, which came in several colors.
“It’s become a thing you get to be cool,” Caison said.
In an interview, he said that he tried to steer clear of armed cliques of teenagers in his Las Vegas neighborhood. “It’s like a trend now.”
His mother, Takeila Peebles, moved to Las Vegas from Chicago seven years ago. She said she thought he would be safer in their new city.
The day of the shooting, Peebles, who works in medical billing and as a chef from her home, told Caison he could go outside to play only after he tidied up his bedroom, threw in a load of laundry and vacuumed the stairs. When Caison finished his chores, around 3:45 p.m., he headed out. Not long after, she heard gunfire and caught a glimpse of a white Kia Optima speeding away.
A soldier in uniform who happened to be nearby saw what had happened and tended to Caison’s wounds until a passing motorist rushed him to the hospital.
One bullet struck his colon, part of which had to be removed, medical officials say. Another pierced his liver. A third punched through a principal vein in his abdomen. The other bullets broke his femur and caused nerve damage to his forearm.
Investigators concluded that the shooting was tied to a gang dispute and that Caison was not the intended target. In late June, Hakeem Collette, 17, pleaded guilty to battery with a deadly weapon and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. He will be eligible for parole in two years.
Peebles said the punishment is outrageous, considering the anguish her family has experienced. For three weeks after her son was shot, she had a recurring nightmare in which she watched helplessly as Caison bled to death on the pavement.
Lately, Peebles said she often tiptoes into his bedroom to make sure he is still there.
“I’m always at a loss for words when I look at him,” she said. “He’s not a touchy person, but I just always want to hug him.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Law enforcement; Social networks; Military weapons; Public prosecutors; 3-D printers; Criminal investigations; Gun violence; Firearm laws & regulations; Murders & murder attempts; Teenagers; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Kansas City Missouri; Minnesota; Las Vegas Nevada

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Assaults; Lego Group; United States; Automobiles; Bureau Of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms And Explosives; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Lucas, Quinton; Texas; Federal State Relations (Us); Computers And The Internet; Factories And Manufacturing; Mass Shootings; Sacramento (Calif); Kia Motors Corp; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Houston (Tex); Organized Crime; 3 D P rinters; Justice Department; Youth; Glock Gmbh; Minneapolis (Minn); Disasters And Emergencies; Teenagers And Adolescence; Sensors; Police; Missouri; Capone, Al; Social Media; Sacramento, Calif, Shootings (2022); Law And Legislation; YoutubeCom; Dettelbach, Steven M; Kansas City (Mo); Democratic Party; Kansas; Minnesota; Computer And Video Games; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Gun Control; Las Vegas (Nev); Chicago (Ill); Milwaukee (Wis); Doctors; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Urban Areas; New York Times; Police Department (Chicago, Ill); Age, Chronological

Title: Inexpensive Add-on Spawns a New Era of Machine Guns

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-12T16:26:17Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849343394

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inexpensive-add-on-spawns-new-era-machine-guns/docview/2849343394/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Super Pets, a Shape-Shifter and a Ladybug: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Gachman, Dina

Publication info: Gachman, Dina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/super-pets-shape-shifter-ladybug/docview/2847191133/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This month's picks include a stereotype-defying shape-shifter, superpowered shelter pets and the newest "Guardians of the Galaxy" adventure.
'Nimona'
Watch it on Netflix.
Nimona is a shape-shifter, a monster, a misunderstood hellion with a heart of gold. Voiced by Chloë Grace Moretz, the title character busts into a futuristic world where knights defend the castle and the powerful might not be as benevolent as they'd like the citizens to believe. Based on a best-selling graphic novel by ND Stevenson and directed by Nick Bruno and Troy Quane (who also co-directed "Spies in Disguise"), this 2023 animated feature from Netflix gives young children a mile-a-minute main character who slides between "good guy" and "bad guy" status, defying the usual stereotypes. Stevenson has called the story a transgender allegory, and the L.G.B.T.Q. representation is a welcome change from the usual kids' movie universes, where knights fall in love with princesses, not with each other. Here, Riz Ahmed voices Ballister Boldheart, a knight who has been wrongly accused of murdering Queen Valerin (Lorraine Toussaint). Ballister reluctantly allows Nimona to help him take down a corrupt system, prove his innocence and reunite with his partner, Ambrosius Goldenloin (Eugene Lee Yang). As a character, Nimona has zero chill and might prove a little tough for adults to watch for any length of time, but my son was entertained by the character's constant motion, chaotic energy and what-will-come-next transformations.
'Miraculous: Ladybug & Cat Noir, The Movie'
Watch it on Netflix.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Many youngsters will already be familiar with the hit French series "Miraculous: Tales of Ladybug & Cat Noir," about two Parisian teen superheroes named Marinette (voiced by Cristina Vee for the English-speaking cast) and Adrien (Bryce Papenbrook), who secretly transform into Ladybug and Cat Noir to save their city from villains. They're members of The Miraculous, a group of protectors who vanquish evil all over the world. This time, the superheroes get nearly two hours of screen time to join forces and stop the evil Hawk Moth (Keith Silverstein) from unleashing destruction throughout the City of Light. Directed by Jeremy Zag, who co-wrote the screenplay with Bettina López Mendoza and also wrote the songs, the 2023 movie amps up the action, with plenty of scenes in which Ladybug and Cat Noir fly over Parisian landmarks and battle the bad guys. There are musical numbers, moments of valor, and enough silly humor and flirty banter between the real-life teenagers and their alter egos to keep elementary-age kids watching. The vibrant reds and purples that make the series stand out visually are on full display, and the same girl power theme that defines the series carries over to the film.
'Heroes of the Golden Mask'
Rent it on Amazon Prime and Vudu.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
In this Arcana Studios 2023 production directed by Sean Patrick O'Reilly, an orphan named Charlie (voiced by Kiefer O'Reilly) is trying his best to survive on the mean streets of his city. Just as Charlie is about to get nabbed by the cops for another petty crime, a door opens and a strange figure offers him a quick escape in the form of a magic portal. Charlie hops through, and he's transported to an ancient Chinese kingdom called Sanxingdui. He meets an unlikely group of golden-masked superheroes who tell Charlie they need his help defeating a ruthless enemy set on conquering the kingdom. At first Charlie schemes to help the heroes with the secret intention of taking the golden masks, but lessons are learned and Charlie discovers that money and greed aren't the most important things in life. The animation looks a little like a low-budget video game, and the writing and performances are definitely not awards-season worthy, but Patton Oswalt voices a blue ogre named Aesop, Ron Perlman voices Kunyi, and Christopher Plummer, before his death, voiced the character Rizzo. It's a bit of a mishmash, but if your kid is craving swordplay, winged tigers and dragons that look like they mated with a moose, give this one a try.
'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3'
Watch it on Disney+.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The final installment of the director James Gunn's "Guardians of the Galaxy" trilogy, released in May, might not go down as the best of the three, but it should entertain older elementary school and middle school kids who've come to love Peter Quill/Star-Lord (Chris Pratt), Gamora (Zoe Saldaña), Groot (voiced by Vin Diesel), Rocket (voiced by Bradley Cooper) and Drax (Dave Bautista). When we meet back up with the Marvel gang, Star-Lord is grieving Gamora, who died in "Avengers: Infinity War." Never fear, though! Gamora (sort of) returns to the crew in the form of a time-traveling variant, but this Gamora has no memory of her relationship with Peter. The story largely centers on Rocket, and the Guardians' attempts to save his life and take down the High Evolutionary (Chukwudi Iwuji), an evil scientist who created Rocket and who is now intent on mutiny. Cooper brings some genuine emotion to Rocket's journey, and Iwuji portrays a formidable villain.
'DC League of Super-Pets'
Watch it on Max.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
One could easily imagine this movie being pitched in a conference room: An animated superhero movie, but about their pets! The delightful simplicity of it would be tough to pass up. Here, we have Dwayne Johnson voicing Superman's dog, Krypto, a pup whose favorite chew toy is a little squeaky Batman doll. Youngsters won't care about the voices behind the adorable super-pets, but Kevin Hart, Keanu Reeves, Kate McKinnon, Natasha Lyonne and Marc Maron make a formidable cast. Krypto was sent to Earth as a puppy to look after Superman (voiced by John Krasinski), so the two have a sweet bond that might make both children and adults feel a little weepy because dogs are the best. Krypto can fight crime, but he's a misfit when it comes to relating to non-superhero dogs. When Superman proposes marriage to Lois Lane (Olivia Wilde), he takes Krypto to a shelter to meet some other dogs, so he won't feel like a third wheel, and just like that, a league of super-pets is formed. With a screenplay by the "Lego Batman Movie" writers Jared Stern and John Whittington, this 2022 charmer, directed by Stern and Sam Levine, has enough action, sweetness and humor to warrant multiple viewings.
Photograph Ballister Boldheart (voiced by Riz Ahmed), left, and the shape-shifting title character (voiced by Chloë Grace Moretz) in "Nimona." (PHOTOGRAPH BY NETFLIX) This article appeared in print on page C4.

Subject: Superheroes; Screenplays; Motion pictures; Pets

People: Ahmed, Riz

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/04/movies/kids-movies-streaming.html

Title: Super Pets, a Shape-Shifter and a Ladybug:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 8, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2847191133

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/super-pets-shape-shifter-ladybug/docview/2847191133/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On the Big Screen, And on the Couch: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Cohn, Gabe

Publication info: Cohn, Gabe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-big-screen-couch/docview/2846773274/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Two YouTube hosts have built a following by dissecting the psychology of movie characters. Here, they analyze some of this summer's familiar faces.
Is Indiana Jones better at burying his feelings than digging up priceless artifacts? How might Scarlett Johansson and Adam Driver's characters in "Marriage Story" have better navigated divorce and co-parenting? Hey, wait a minute: Does the hero of "The Lego Batman Movie" contain all the building blocks of a narcissist?
Such questions are the bread and butter -- or perhaps the popcorn and butter-flavored topping -- of the YouTube series "Cinema Therapy." Founded in 2020 by its hosts, Jonathan Decker, a marriage and family therapist, and Alan Seawright, a filmmaker, the channel has built a following in part by holding faux therapy sessions for heroes, villains and onscreen couples, treating movie plots and characters as case studies for mental health topics. Some typical titles: "Psychology of a Hero: 'Hulk' and Anger Management," "Villain Therapy: Jobu Tupaki From 'Everything Everywhere All at Once"' and "Movie Couple Therapy: 'Shrek."'
Like TikTok therapists and mindfulness podcasts, "Cinema Therapy" is part of a wave of modern media that delves into topics once reserved for psychology books, academic journals and, well, actual therapy. The hosts and their team shoot the videos in the basement of Seawright's Utah home. By YouTube's count, many episodes have been viewed more than a million times each.
In a recent interview, Decker and Seawright, both 42, discussed characters from four of this summer's big movies.
Barbie
Greta Gerwig's take on the toy line centers on a version of Barbie (Margot Robbie) whose ostensibly perfect life is interrupted when she develops flat feet and irrepressible thoughts of death.
DECKER Barbie is having an existential crisis. We see this in real life -- the whole, "things start to go wrong in my life and I'm not sure why, because I'm just chugging along like I always have been." And the assumption is, what I've always been doing is fine. There's a phrase in trauma healing, "the thing that used to help you has now got you stuck." What saved me before is now hurting me.
SEAWRIGHT There's a difference in life, and in film characters, between what the character wants and what they need.
DECKER Barbie wants everything to just keep going the way it's going. What she needs is self-reflection, introspection and perspective-taking. Perspective-taking allows her to make a shift, to let go of the thing that worked for her in the past and to walk into a future that's going to work for her. What I would prescribe is exactly what the movie does.
J. Robert Oppenheimer
"Oppenheimer," Christopher Nolan's biopic about the man who was central to the development of the atomic bomb, shows its subject (played by Cillian Murphy) grappling with the consequences of his invention -- and maintaining a romantic connection with a political activist, Jean Tatlock (Florence Pugh), while married to Katherine Oppenheimer (Emily Blunt), known as Kitty.
SEAWRIGHT It was really fascinating to see [Nolan] apply his complex, nonlinear time sense to a guy who, in a very similar way, looked at the rules of physics and was like, "No, I'm going to break those" -- and who looked at the rules of relationships and went, "No, I'm going to break those."
DECKER Oppenheimer to me, it's like the difference between narcissism and hubris. Because Oppenheimer isn't devoid of compassion for other people. Generally, he doesn't put others down to make himself look better. He does think that he is unique and specially gifted, but, to be fair, he was. So Oppenheimer is not a narcissist, but he does have a high amount of hubris. It's the hubris that led to the naïveté -- the naïveté in his personal relationships that, "I can carry on with Jean while being married to Kitty and this'll go fine." What I would prescribe in therapy is cognitive behavioral treatment exploring his assumptions about himself and the world around him, to challenge that thinking.
Miles and Rio Morales
One story line in "Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse," the latest adventure of the teenage hero Miles Morales (voiced by Shameik Moore), finds Miles furthering a relationship with Gwen Stacy (Hailee Steinfeld). Miles's mother, Rio Morales (Lauren Vélez), struggles to accept it -- though she does come around.
DECKER In adulthood, presumably, we have full autonomy. In childhood, we're very reliant on our parents. And then in between is where the power struggle happens, where kids want more power than the parents feel they're ready for, and parents want more control than the kids want to give them. Alan and I both feel the same way: There have been so many unhealthy relationships played for drama, that to actually show people growing and doing right by each other is not only refreshing -- I think it's the future of storytelling. Some of our more popular episodes have been about healthy movie marriages or things where we show what good parenting looks like. People are like, "I have plenty of examples in my real life of what the negative looks like." And so I like to see Miles's mom arrive where she did.
Indiana Jones
Harrison Ford's whip-snapping archaeologist is in low spirits at the start of "Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny," which finds an aging Indy separated from his wife, Marion (Karen Allen), and grieving the death of their son.
SEAWRIGHT This is a married couple who lost a son. They need to be in therapy. Granted, it's, what, the late '60s, early '70s? That's not really a thing that's done.
DECKER I don't know if I would give him major depressive disorder, maybe dysthymic disorder, which is like depressive disorder but it doesn't have as many rigorous criteria. Instead of chronic, it would be circumstantial: circumstantial related to aging, the loss of his son, his separation from his wife. The way he has a lack of not just energy, but a lack of interest in life, in people. The things that used to excite him don't excite him anymore. What I would urge him to do in counseling is to not do what he generally does, which is to bury his feelings. I would advise him to go to therapy with Marion and to work on expressing his vulnerability and opening up to her.
Photograph Top, from left: Miles Morales (Shameik Moore), Barbie (Margot Robbie) and J. Robert Oppenheimer (Cillian Murphy). All three characters have issues, according to Jonathan Decker, bottom, at left, and Alan Seawright, right, who host the YouTube series "Cinema Therapy." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SONY PICTURES; WARNER BROS.; UNIVERSAL PICTURES; CINEMA THERAPY) (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Narcissism

Location: Indiana; United States--US

People: Murphy, Cillian; Robbie, Margot; Oppenheimer, J Robert (1904-1967)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/01/movies/cinema-therapy-barbie-oppenheimer.html

Title: On the Big Screen, And on the Couch:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 7, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846773274

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-big-screen-couch/docview/2846773274/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Sure of Love? 100 Percent, and Then Some.: [Society Desk]

Author: Lee, Anna Grace

Publication info: Lee, Anna Grace. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-sure-love-100-percent-then-some/docview/2846428251/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Anne Huntington was producing a podcast about dating -- all while avoiding commitment. Tyler DePatis, on the other hand, was "110 percent" sure about her.
On their first date, Anne Stewart Huntington and Tyler Paul DePatis broke their own rules.
He had been advised not to have dinner on a first date because it could get too long and awkward, and she had always turned down rides home from first dates. But when the two met at a bar in Chicago in August 2021, after matching on the dating app Hinge, she was hungry, and he was curious.
They played an impromptu game of bar trivia, the hubbub of the game filling the beats between each story they told. They ate dinner at the bar, and when he offered to drive her home, she said yes. She had a good feeling about him.
Ms. Huntington, 33, was well-versed in the ways of online dating. "I loved first dates," she said. "I just am naturally curious about people, and there's kind of no other format where you sit down with a stranger and hear their life story in the same way."
In February 2020, she challenged herself to go on 21 first dates in 30 days, creating a podcast to document the process called "Anne Hunting Love." She ended the project early when the pandemic began -- but it gave her a unique outlook on dating.
She decided to get back into the dating game in the summer of 2021, going on a first date every week. Mr. DePatis was different from other men she had met, some of whom were put off by the mention of her podcast. He was simply interested in hearing more.
The two set up a second date, but Ms. Huntington had never been in a serious relationship before, and was afraid of commitment. She frequently traveled in her late teens and 20s, spending time in Spain, India, China, Egypt, South Africa and Nigeria for various work, study and volunteer opportunities.
Mr. DePatis, 33, had recently started dating again after the end of a long-term relationship, and was still getting his bearings. For example: He didn't kiss her until the fifth date.
Their fourth date lasted 10 hours. They walked along the Chicago Riverwalk, barhopping and talking until the early morning hours. "I had ample opportunities to kiss her," Mr. DePatis said.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
She thought he would kiss her as he got into his Uber. Instead, he complimented her eyes. Later that night, she texted him, "Next time, just kiss me." On their next date, he quieted his nerves and just "grabbed her face," he said.
"Now he kisses me along all the stops that he didn't kiss me, whenever we walk that walk," she said.
Around February 2022, after about five months of dating, Ms. Huntington asked Mr. DePatis a big question. "I'm a researcher, I like to quantify things," she said. "So I was like, 'Percentage-wise, how sure are you that I'm the one?"' He wouldn't answer.
Then, on the Saturday before St. Patrick's Day, they were driving to see friends in Indiana. Ms. Huntington had been drinking, and she started crying in the car. She was thinking about marriage and was overwhelmed to find that the idea didn't seem so scary anymore.
Mr. DePatis told her what he had held back weeks before: He was "110 percent" sure that she was the one. Six months later, he proposed on their first anniversary.
Ms. Huntington, who grew up in River Forest, Ill., has a bachelor's degree in history and Arabic from Notre Dame, a master's degree in teaching from Emmanuel College in Boston and a master's degree in education from Stanford. She is a research associate at Education Development Center in Chicago. Mr. DePatis, who is from Petersburg, Ill., is a project engineer for TERRA Engineering in Chicago and has a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.
They were married July 15 at St. Vincent Ferrer Church in River Forest, Ill., by the Rev. John Meany, a Roman Catholic priest, in front of 165 guests. A troupe of seven flower children walked down the aisle of the church, which went slightly, adorably haywire. (One toddler was entranced by the stained glass and kept exclaiming, "Beautiful!") Afterward, they had a brunch reception at the Oak Park Country Club in River Grove, Ill., where guests built Lego versions of themselves in lieu of a traditional guest book.
Instead of a wedding cake, there were lemon bars, cookies and an ice cream sundae bar. The couple's first dance was to the orchestral version of "MMMBop" by Hanson, one of Ms. Huntington's favorite songs.
In the evening, they had a pool party at the country club with their favorite Chicago foods: beef sandwiches, curly fries, pizza and Italian ices. Ms. Huntington wore a white swimsuit and Mr. DePatis wore a tuxedo T-shirt. They jumped off the diving board together.
Photograph Anne Huntington, Tyler DePatis (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN ANGELA PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST11.

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/04/style/anne-huntington-tyler-depatis-wedding.html

Title: How Sure of Love? 100 Percent, and Then Some.:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846428251

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-sure-love-100-percent-then-some/docview/2846428251/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Up From the Sewers in Search of Acceptance: [Review]

Author: Phillips, Maya

Publication info: Phillips, Maya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/up-sewers-search-acceptance/docview/2845380344/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This time around, the four kung-fu-fighting old masters of the sewers dream of having a normal life with the humans. But not if Ice Cube can help it.
There's a refreshing sense of nostalgia in "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem" -- and it doesn't just have to do with the fact that the eternally youthful ninja turtles have been around since the 1980s, in the form of the original comic book series, as well as TV adaptations, films, toys and video games.
It's in the very look of the movie: meticulous computer-generated animation remixed with lively doodles and scribbles, splotches of color and unclean lines -- the kind of art that would come from the combination of a free period, a pack of Sharpies and a composition notebook. After all, what's more adolescent than that?
You probably already know the back story: Four cute little turtles get transformed by radioactive ooze and are adopted and raised underground, in the sewers of New York, by a rat named Splinter (voiced by Jackie Chan) who's a master of martial arts. They're all big fans of pizza.
Now, as teenagers, the turtles -- pugnacious Raphael (Brady Noon), doofy Michelangelo (Shamon Brown Jr.), nerdy Donatello (Micah Abbey) and their ever-earnest leader, Leonardo (Nicolas Cantu) -- dream of having a normal life with humans. But the aboveground masses face their own threat: Another mutated creature, Superfly (Ice Cube), aims to overtake the human world, Magneto-style. The turtles team up with a student journalist named April (Ayo Edebiri) to try to save the day and hopefully be accepted into human society.
This is certainly a Ninja Turtles for the Internet Age -- which, like the web itself, is fun and vast, but ultimately tiring. The dialogue is stacked with pop culture references to show that the four kung-fu-fighting old masters of the sewers definitely have YouTube and Netflix (and, one assumes, surprisingly good Wi-Fi). So they reminisce about sneaking off to an Adele concert and catch Ferris Bueller at a Brooklyn movie drive-in, and Donatello waxes poetic about anime.
The movie shows the most heart when the group gets hyped up together, going into long, digressive riffs punctuated with jokes and dance moves, channeling the wholesome playfulness that has kept the franchise so popular.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
"Mutant Mayhem" pulls off its zany cartoon humor mainly in its fight scenes, where Jeff Rowe's direction, full of frenzied angles and high-flying action, perfectly replicates the chaos. There's a bit of body humor that, though not always as effective (with the noted exception of a vomiting scene, ironically paired with a chipper Natasha Bedingfield song), feels appropriate given its depiction of the roach-and-sewer experience that's New York living.
To top it off, "Mutant Mayhem" is sprinkled with self-referential jokes that poke fun at its own logic, like the inconsistent science behind the magical radioactive gunk. Even its villains troll the turtle-heroes, calling the green siblings "Geico geckos" and "Shreks."
With its far-reaching references, "Mutant Mayhem" is similar to the new wave of animated films, like "The Mitchells vs. the Machines" and the Spider-Verse films (and perhaps even going back a few years, with "Ralph Breaks the Internet" and the Lego movies), that revel in a pop culture pastiche of emojis, gifs, viral videos and chatspeak.
And the music is always on-point; Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross produce a killer score in their signature wild, industrial rock mixed with a few softer piano-heavy interludes. Other sequences jump off the screen thanks to the addition of quintessentially New York hip-hop, such as DMX and Blackstreet.
The casting is a thing of beauty, with more comedic talent than I have the space to call out here. Hearing Paul Rudd, Rose Byrne, Seth Rogen, John Cena, Hannibal Buress and Post Malone (as a reluctant bad guy who just wants to sing) as various colorful -- and I mean that literally and figuratively -- mutants is like, say, getting a free order of breadsticks with your pizza.
In fact, the cast of side characters almost outshines the turtles themselves in the comedy department, with Chan's endearing Splinter and Ice Cube's 1970s Blaxploitation-style funky-fresh villain, Superfly, being the prime examples.
But in the end, there's little complexity to the characters and no surprise to the plot. And even the messaging, about tolerance, good intentions and outsiders finding their brood, is so unimaginatively expressed that it feels cliché.
A film unintentionally stuck in its own kind of adolescence, "Mutant Mayhem" has plenty of charms but tries so hard to be cool, funny and relevant -- so totally online -- that it forgets to kick back with a slice, some buds and just, you know, vibe.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem
Rated PG. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes. In theaters.
Photograph From left, the perennially pubescent crime-fighting terrapins Donatello, Michelangelo, Leonardo and Raphael in "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem." (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Motion pictures; Popular culture

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/02/movies/teenage-mutant-ninja-turtles-mutant-mayhem-review.html

Title: Up From the Sewers in Search of Acceptance:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 4, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 2845380344

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/up-sewers-search-acceptance/docview/2845380344/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Launching a Time Capsule of Human Creativity: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Biersdorfer, J D

Publication info: Biersdorfer, J D. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/launching-time-capsule-human-creativity/docview/2842746934/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Lunar Codex, an archive of contemporary art, poetry and other cultural artifacts of life on Earth, is headed to the moon.
"Just keep telling the story," says the director character in Wes Anderson's latest film, "Asteroid City," which takes a stylized look at midcentury America's fascination with space and interstellar communications. Later this year, the Lunar Codex -- a vast multimedia archive telling a story of the world's people through creative arts -- will start heading for permanent installation on the moon aboard a series of unmanned rockets.
The Lunar Codex is a digitized (or miniaturized) collection of contemporary art, poetry, magazines, music, film, podcasts and books by 30,000 artists, writers, musicians and filmmakers in 157 countries. It's the brainchild of Samuel Peralta, a semiretired physicist and author in Canada with a love of the arts and sciences.
Prints from war-torn Ukraine and poetry from countries threatened by climate change are in the Codex, as well as more than 130 issues of PoetsArtists magazine. Among the thousands of images are "New American Gothic," by Ayana Ross, the winner of the 2021 Bennett Prize for women artists; "Emerald Girl," a portrait in Lego bricks by Pauline Aubey; and the aptly titled "New Moon," a 1980 serigraph by Alex Colville. Some works were commissioned for the project, including "The Polaris Trilogy: Poems for the Moon," a collection of poetry from every continent, including Antarctica.
An art collector and poet himself, Peralta, the executive chairman of the Toronto-based media and technology company Incandence, has been reaching out to creators through gallery and publishing connections to select the works (and get archival permissions) for free inclusion in the Codex. He has also accepted works submitted by individual artists.
"This is the largest, most global project to launch cultural works into space," Peralta said in an interview. "There isn't anything like this anywhere."
The Codex represents creators from a range of experiences. It includes several pieces from Connie Karleta Sales, an artist with the autoimmune disease neuromyelitis optica, who makes paintings using eye-gaze technology. "Electric Joy," one of the works, "celebrates the color and movement of my mind," Sales said in an email. "I might have limited use of my physical body, but my mind is limitless. It is dancing, laughing, crying and loving."
Olesya Dzhurayeva, a Ukrainian printmaker, had evacuated Kyiv in April 2022 in the first months of the Russian attack when Peralta, who had previously purchased some of her work, contacted her with a supportive message. He also asked for her permission to archive images of several of her linocuts in the Lunar Codex, and she agreed. "This project is so life-affirming with thoughts about the future," she wrote in an email. "This is exactly what I needed in those first months." A collection of her pieces are represented in the Codex, including a series of woodcuts printed with black Ukrainian soil.
The moon has hosted earthly art for decades. "The Moon Museum," a tiny ceramic tile featuring line drawings by Forrest Myers, Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Rauschenberg, David Novros and John Chamberlain, was discreetly attached to the leg of a lunar module left on the moon as part of the Apollo 12 mission in 1969. "Fallen Astronaut," an aluminum sculpture by the Belgian artist Paul van Hoeydonck, was left on the lunar surface by the Apollo 15 crew in 1971, with a plaque commemorating 14 American astronauts and Soviet cosmonauts who died in scientific service to their countries.
Outside of the Lunar Codex project, other contemporary artists are aiming to place solo works on the moon's surface through commercial space travel, including Jeff Koons and the British artist Sacha Jafri. The Arch Mission Foundation has sent Isaac Asimov's "Foundation" trilogy and millions of Lunar Library pages into space.
But the Lunar Codex has bigger storytelling ambitions. It's divided into four time capsules, with its material copied onto digital memory cards or inscribed into nickel-based NanoFiche, a lightweight analog storage media that can hold 150,000 laser-etched microscopic pages of text or photos on one 8.5-by-11-inch sheet. The concept is "like the Golden Record," Peralta said, referring to NASA's own cultural time capsule of audio and images stored on a metal disc and sent into space aboard the Voyager probes in 1977. "Gold would be incredibly heavy. Nickel wafers are much, much lighter."
Ada Limón, the current U.S. poet laureate, wrote a poem for NASA's Europa Clipper spacecraft bound for Jupiter next year. She also has poetry in the Lunar Codex, which holds about 25 years' worth of "The Poet and the Poem," a poetry radio show/podcast founded and hosted by Grace Cavalieri -- including episodes featuring Rita Dove, Louise Glück and other U.S. poet laureates. Cavalieri, a prolific poet herself, observed that sending art and poetry into space shows off civilization in a very human way. "We have the land deals, we have the treaties, but the only way we knew how people really felt, and their sensibilities, is in the poetry from the beginning of time," she said.
Didi Menéndez, the publisher, curator and editor of PoetsArtists, has been sending digitized issues and other publications to Peralta for inclusion in the Lunar Codex. "Many of the artists work in the contemporary figurative," she said of the moon-bound collection. "We're talking about things that are happening in politics and socially. It's a view of the Earth and what's happening now from an artist's perspective. And what's really happening with emotions."
Steven Alan Bennett and his wife, Elaine Melotti Schmidt, the founders of The Bennett Prize, are also supporters of the Lunar Codex and have contributed catalogs featuring the past winners and finalists. "It's not just STEM, it's STEAM," Bennett said, adding "arts" to the "science, technology, engineering and math" acronym.
"For Apollo, they were all male artists," Menéndez said, noting the moon art previously delivered by NASA crews. "These payloads Sam is putting together have a very diverse group."
Peralta, a polymath who got his Ph.D. in physics from the University of Wales, is the son of the Filipino anthropologist/playwright Jesus T. Peralta and the abstract artist Rosario Bitanga-Peralta. He started the Lunar Codex during the coronavirus pandemic to send his own work, including his science fiction books, to the moon before deciding to expand the scope.
He's been compiling content for a few years, although some people he's contacted haven't taken him seriously. "I say, 'I'd like to put your art on the moon,' and they think this is some sort of a scam," he said. His basic requirement for acceptance is that the artist or writer has been pre-curated by having work included in an exhibition, catalog or anthology.
One Codex capsule has already orbited the moon on NASA's Orion mission last year. The Codex's other capsules are scheduled to land and stay on the moon starting this fall through NASA'S Commercial Lunar Payload Services program, which awards contracts to aerospace engineering companies like Astrobotic Technology of Pittsburgh and Intuitive Machines of Houston. After the companies create the lander modules for NASA's equipment, they can sell any extra room on board. Prices vary; Astrobotic charges $ 3,270 to ferry a 0.5-inch-by-1-inch "moon capsule" onboard one of its lunar landers.
Peralta is largely funding the cost of the payload space on the three landers and doesn't have a final price yet, but he said it's been a fraction of the cost of buying a "space tourist" ticket on a commercial rocket. (A Virgin Galactic trip costs $ 450,000.)
Peralta sees the Lunar Codex as "a message in the bottle for the future that during this time of war, pandemic and economic upheaval people still found time to create beauty." And, for those who want to follow its travels, the Codex's current launch schedule and contents of each collection can be viewed at lunarcodex.com.
Photograph Above, a digital copy of "New Moon," a serigraph by Alex Colville, included in the Lunar Codex. Right, from top: an image of Pauline Aubey's portrait "Emerald Girl," made with Lego bricks; "New American Gothic," a painting by Ayana Ross; "Electric Joy," a painting by Connie Karleta Sales; Olesya Dzhurayeva's "We Stand on Our Own Land." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ESTATE OF ALEX COLVILLE; VIA MIRA GODARD GALLERY; 33 CONTEMPORARY GALLERY; THE BENNETT PRIZE; OLESYA DZHURAYEVA AND MESH GALLERY); Left, Samuel Peralta, a physicist and author, created the Lunar Codex. Above, from left: exhibition catalogs full of artwork have been miniaturized and etched onto nickel-based NanoFiche for the trip to the moon; Isaac Asimov's "Foundation" is stored on a disc. This storage media can withstand electromagnetic radiation, high heat, extreme cold and other harsh conditions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN GEORGE KO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LUNAR CODEX) This article appeared in print on page C12.

Subject: Archives & records; Artists; Poetry; Painting

Location: United States--US

People: Colville, Alex; Asimov, Isaac (1920-1992)

Company / organization: Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA; NAICS: 927110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/27/arts/design/lunar-codex-time-capsule-moon.html

Title: Launching a Time Capsule of Human Creativity:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N .Y.

Pages: C.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 28, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842746934

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/launching-time-capsule-human-creativity/docview/2842746934/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

G.M.'s Electric Vehicle Rollout Delayed by Slow Battery Production: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Boudette, Neal E

Publication info: Boudette, Neal E. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/g-m-s-electric-vehicle-rollout-delayed-slow/docview/2841717228/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The company is earning big profits on gasoline cars and trucks but is struggling to catch up to Tesla in the fastest-growing segment of the auto market.
General Motors is investing tens of billions of dollars to produce new electric vehicles and, it hopes, catch up to Tesla.
But those ambitious goals appear distant. This year, the company is struggling to produce a new electric car battery pack meant for the electric vehicles it plans to introduce over several years.
On Tuesday, G.M.'s chief executive, Mary T. Barra, said the delays were "disappointing" and stemmed from a supplier's inability to deliver automated manufacturing machinery.
"We are working on multiple fronts to put this behind us," she said in a conference call with analysts.
Many investors are increasingly worried about the company's plans because electric vehicles are the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry and are the most important piece of Ms. Barra's long-term strategy for G.M.
The company's share price was down 3.5 percent at the close of trading on Tuesday.
A big fear for investors is that G.M., Ford Motor and other large automakers stand to lose customers as more drivers buy battery-powered cars. In China, Europe and California, where electric vehicles account for a significant and growing share of new car sales, once dominant automakers like Volkswagen and Toyota have been losing market share to Tesla and Chinese automakers like BYD.
Two years ago, Ms. Barra said, G.M. aimed to double annual revenue by 2030, to about $ 280 billion. Much of the increased business is supposed to come from electric vehicles, and new revenue from software and services linked to those cars and trucks. The company has also set a goal of phasing out internal combustion models by 2035.
Right now, G.M. is "way behind where they should be," said Sam Fiorani, vice president of global vehicle forecasting at AutoForecast Solutions, a consulting firm. "If they're having trouble with the first wave of these new E.V.s, and if they can't roll them out, that's not good for the next wave of higher-volume models."
In the first half of this year, G.M. built just 50,000 electric vehicles, and about 80 percent were Chevrolet Bolts that use an older battery pack made by a supplier. In the United States, G.M. sold fewer than 2,800 vehicles that used its new, modular Ultium battery packs, which are made at an Ohio factory that the company owns with LG Energy Solution. Two other Ultium factories are under construction, in Tennessee and Michigan.
Ms. Barra said G.M. was sticking with a previous forecast that it would make 400,000 electric vehicles in North America from 2022 to 2024, and it is expected to make 100,000 in the second half of this year. But she did not repeat an earlier prediction that the company would make more than one million in 2025, most of which were supposed to use Ultium technology.
Ultium battery packs are made from Lego-like modules that can be combined in different sizes. By using them in many vehicles, from compact cars to large pickups, G.M. hopes to reap economies of scale and gain a cost advantage over other automakers.
G.M. had said it would stop making the Bolt, but Ms. Barra said the company now planned to update the car with Ultium technology.
For now, the sluggish electric vehicle rollout isn't hurting the company's bottom line. G.M. said on Tuesday that it made a profit of $ 2.6 billion from April to June, an increase of 52 percent from a year earlier. Revenue totaled $ 44.7 billion, up 25 percent.
G.M.'s chief financial officer, Paul Jacobson, said the company had benefited from higher prices and strong sales of trucks and sport utility vehicles in North America. The average price of the vehicles that G.M. sold in the second quarter was $ 52,000 -- about $ 1,600 more than in the first quarter of the year.
G.M. sold 833,000 cars and trucks in North America in the second quarter, a 26 percent increase from a year earlier. In the rest of the world, it sold 147,000 vehicles, about 8,000 fewer than a year earlier.
Mr. Jacobson also said G.M. now expected to earn $ 9.3 billion to $ 10.7 billion this year, up from a previous target of $ 8.4 billion to $ 9.9 billion. The company also expects to reduce costs by $ 3 billion by the end of 2024, $ 1 billion more than an earlier forecast.
The company could struggle to hit its financial targets this year if the United Auto Workers go on strike. The company's contract with the U.A.W. ends in September and management and union officials recently started negotiating a new deal. The union has taken a more aggressive posture to the talks under a new president, Shawn Fain.
G.M. currently offers only a few vehicles that use Ultium batteries. They include the Cadillac Lyriq, an S.U.V.; the GMC Hummer, which has a starting price of about $ 90,0000; and large delivery vans made by a new division called BrightDrop.
This summer and fall, G.M. is supposed to add three electric Chevrolets -- the Blazer and Equinox S.U.V.s and an electric Silverado pickup. The company had previously said the Silverado would go on sale in the spring, but the truck is now not expected until the fall.
Photograph The manufacturing of General Motors and LG's new Ultium battery pack has been slowed by a lack of machinery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Automobile industry; Strikes; Electric vehicles; Trucks; Factories; Product introduction

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Strikes Factories Product introduction

Location: North America

Company / organization: Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/25/business/general-motors-electric-vehicles-profits.html

Title: G.M.'s Electric Vehicle Rollout Delayed by Slow Battery Production:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2841717228

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/g-m-s-electric-vehicle-rollout-delayed-slow/docview/2841717228/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Com pany Jul 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Flyweight's Success, U.F.C. Sees a Chance To Expand Its Reach: [Sports Desk]

Author: Morgan, Emmanuel

Publication info: Morgan, Emmanuel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/flyweights-success-u-f-c-sees-chance-expand-reach/docview/2834552152/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Even with a long history of fighters of Mexican heritage in combat sports, Brandon Moreno is the first U.F.C. champion born in Mexico. His rise comes as the company looks to expand its reach.
Brandon Moreno, the Ultimate Fighting Championship's flyweight champion, sat on a gym mat and stretched his lower body while music from the Argentine pop group La K'onga blared through speakers overhead.
While many nearby businesses were closed for Independence Day, Moreno was working during the U.S. holiday as part of the final stages of preparation for his upcoming title defense, with hints of his Mexican culture scattered throughout the small, private facility on the outskirts of the Las Vegas Strip. On the wall overlooking the training space, a large portrait of Moreno, the U.F.C.'s first Mexican-born champion, depicts Moreno smiling with the championship belt and his country's flag draped over his shoulders.
Moreno's rise has brought a spotlight to the U.F.C.'s ambitions to expand in the country, an effort bolstered by the emergence of two more Mexican-born champions: the women's flyweight title-winner Alexa Grasso and the men's interim featherweight belt-holder Yair Rodríguez.
"It is part of our future and I feel very grateful with life to be an example for the Mexican people and Mexican kids who can use myself as inspiration for their own careers," Moreno said in an interview.
On Saturday, in the co-main event of U.F.C. 290, Moreno will defend his belt against Alexandre Pantoja, a Brazilian fighter who has beaten Moreno twice previously. The top bout of that card will have Rodríguez fighting against Alexander Volkanovski, one of the top pound-for-pound fighters in the sport.
Moreno grew up in Tijuana, Mexico, a major tourism hub along California's southern border. He was the youngest of three children and his parents owned a piñata business. Moreno said he accompanied them on trips to San Diego and Los Angeles to sell their products.
He began practicing mixed martial arts when he was 12 years old; he said he was chubby and needed something to keep him occupied after school other than video games and eating Oreos. In 2011, when Moreno was 17, he needed his parents' signature to compete in his first professional fight, he said.
Dana White, the U.F.C. president, had long viewed Mexico, with its rich history of cultivating championship-level boxers, as an area for growth in mixed martial arts. He sent matchmakers to scour the country for talent, and when they identified Moreno, he was invited to try out for "The Ultimate Fighter," a television reality competition in which the winner earned a U.F.C. contract. Moreno qualified for the tournament in 2016 but lost his first fight -- he was submitted by Pantoja -- which seemed to halt his U.F.C. dreams.
But Moreno appeared as a replacement when a fight fell through in October 2016 and fought five times, including a tough loss in which he was dominated by Pantoja in 2018. Moreno was released, in part because U.F.C. was wavering on whether it wanted to have a 125-pound men's division at all, given a lag in popularity compared with higher weight classes.
"When you sign with the U.F.C., you expect to have multiple fights and to spend your whole professional career with them," Moreno said. "There was a lot of sadness and frustration and a lot of bad feelings in the battlefield of my mind."
Moreno wanted to fight as soon as possible to continue earning money, and to eventually re-enter the U.F.C. He signed with a new manager, Jason House of Iridium Sports Agency, who helped Moreno secure a championship bout in the flyweight division of the Legacy Fighting Alliance, a smaller mixed martial arts promotional company. Moreno won the fight, and three months later, in September 2019, he fought again in the U.F.C.
He strung together some wins and then matched up with the Brazilian fighter Deiveson Figueiredo, the flyweight champion, in December 2020. The competitive fight ended in a draw, and the two rematched in June 2021. In the third round, Moreno submitted Figueiredo via rear naked choke, taking the belt.
Moreno's stardom instantly grew, White said. His bubbly personality and his interests -- he collects Legos and Pokémon cards -- made him marketable to a wide swath of people. He also occasionally calls fights for the U.F.C.'s Spanish-language broadcasts, and speaking Spanish and English allowed him to connect with more fans.
"He's everything you want in a champion," White said in an interview. "We've been looking for a real Mexican from Mexico who has all the things that this kid has and it's such a huge win for us and him."
The U.F.C. has had champions of Mexican heritage, such as Cain Velasquez, Dominick Cruz and Henry Cejudo, but not one that had been born in the country until Moreno. Rodríguez won his interim belt in February and Grasso became a champion in March after a surprise win by submission over Valentina Shevchenko.
The three Mexican champions are among 150 fighters on the active U.F.C. roster from Latin American countries -- nearly a quarter of the company's athletes -- including 27 from Mexico. Rodríguez told reporters this week that Moreno was an "inspiration."
"After I entered the U.F.C., I saw that things were possible, that things were real, but he opened my eyes even more and said, 'Look, bro, here's the U.F.C. belt, now everything beyond this depends on the individual,"' Rodríguez said. " I'm proud to be sharing a card together, and that we're representing Mexico."
Moreno lost the belt to Figueiredo via unanimous decision in 2022, but regained it in January via a technical knockout, when a punch to Figueiredo's right eye caused it to swell and a doctor stopped the bout in the third round.
Moreno's jubilation for reclaiming the title was muted by controversy leading into the bout. He had been forced to switch coaches as he was preparing because his former coach, James Krause, was under investigation by gambling authorities.
Ahead of a fight in November, U.S. Integrity, a betting monitoring company, became alerted of significant changes in odds involving a fighter Krause had worked with. The fighter, Darrick Minner, had lost via technical knockout and was later discovered to have had an undisclosed injury entering the fight. The U.F.C. reviewed the situation and eventually threatened to bar fighters from events if they continued to train with Krause. Multiple agencies, including U.S. Integrity and the Nevada State Athletic Commission, are still investigating. Krause did not respond to a message seeking comment.
After Krause's dismissal, Moreno began training with Sayif Saud after the manager House arranged a practice for them in Las Vegas. Saud and Moreno bonded immediately, the fighter said, amid the stress of the situation. Moreno retained Saud after his win over Figueiredo and trained with him in Dallas ahead of U.F.C. 290. Should Moreno win, White said he expects his fandom to increase, which will further benefit the U.F.C.'s outreach to Mexico.
In September around Mexican Independence Day, Grasso will have a rematch with Shevchenko as the headlining fight on a card in Las Vegas filled with Hispanic fighters. In October, the U.F.C. plans to open a performance institute in Mexico City, similar to facilities it has in Las Vegas and China, to become a central location for potential fighters in Latin America. A win Saturday, Moreno said, would show that the company should continue investing in the region.
"It's a statement to the U.F.C. like, 'Hey, I'm winning my fights and I can put on for my country,"' Moreno said. "Let's put a pay-per-view there and put the confidence in me and the fans that we can go there and put on a show for everybody."
Photograph Brandon Moreno, top right and above, beat Deiveson Figueiredo in January to regain the flyweight title. Moreno, who in 2021 became U.F.C.s first Mexican-born champion, will try to defend his belt on Saturday night against Alexandre Pantoja. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRUNA PRADO/ASSOCIATED PRESS; AMY KAPLAN/ICON SPORTSWIRE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Independence Day; Martial arts

Location: Mexico; United States--US; Las Vegas Nevada

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/07/sports/ufc-brandon-moreno.html

Title: In Flyweight's Success, U.F.C. Sees a Chance To Expand Its Reach:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 8, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General I nterest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2834552152

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/flyweights-success-u-f-c-sees-chance-expand-reach/docview/2834552152/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Getting Medieval On Oppressors, All Jokes Aside: [Review]

Author: Nicholson, Amy

Publication info: Nicholson, Amy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/getting-medieval-on-oppressors-all-jokes-aside/docview/2831149511/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A zingy, chintzy, idea-driven animated feature based on the ND Stevenson comic.
Imagine Bugs Bunny blended with the Joker and you'll get a sense of Nimona, an impish, shape-shifting villain who presents as a pink-haired, miniskirted punk but prefers to buck description. "I'm not a girl, I'm a shark!" Nimona (voiced by a vibrant Chloë Grace Moretz) insists. At will, Nimona is also an otter, ostrich, rhinoceros, gorilla, girl-shaped humanoid, boy-shaped humanoid, kitty cat, pizza rat and blue whale who swallows its enemies and squirts them out of its blowhole with a filthy snicker.
Likewise, "Nimona," a zingy, chintzy, idea-driven animated feature, was once a Tumblr comic, an art school thesis and an award-winning graphic novel (all three incarnations by the author ND Stevenson). Then, in 2021, it became an internet cri de coeur when Disney shut down production on a feature. Annapurna and Netflix stepped in, and the final film version, directed by Nick Bruno and Troy Quane from a script by Robert L. Baird and Lloyd Taylor, is a rush job with little resemblance to the much bleaker web comic. But it's a vivid creature all its own.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The story is set in a futuro-medieval walled city with jumbotrons and knights who say, "Bro." Fear has reigned for a millennium, ever since the hero Gloreth battled back a monster. Now, Gloreth's Valkyrie-esque statue looms large over the populace, casting a shadow that extends over billboards that blare, "If you see something, slay something," and an outlaw knight, Ballister Boldheart (Riz Ahmed), cowering in disgrace from a wrongful accusation of regicide.
Ballister yearns to be once again embraced by the kingdom, and his ex, the lustily named Ambrosius Goldenloin (Eugene Lee Yang), who broke Ballister's heart and sliced off his arm. Enter Nimona, a bloodthirsty wrecking ball who wants to use Ballister to destroy the entire system. To do so, Nimona brings further shame upon the exile, even publicly claiming that Ballister likes -- Egads! -- freestyle jazz.
At first, the look (particularly the lifeless backgrounds) is so slapdash that you're tempted to flee. But jokes litter the film like scattered Legos, making you hesitate long enough to appreciate how the light glints off Ballister's armor-plated shoulders. Attention has been paid; it's just not equally distributed. The tone is uneasy teetering on anarchic, veering from giddily moronic one-liners to -- more shockingly -- a climax with deep empathy and visual awe.
This is a big message film that wants audiences to reflect on social paranoia. At its heart, it's a pointed allegory about politicians who build their national profile on the backs of queer and transgender children. Nimona the character doesn't claim to speak for them, but does try to speak to them and to others grappling with the concept of what it might feel like when your shell doesn't match your soul. "I feel worse when I don't do it," Nimona says of metamorphosing, "like my insides are itchy." But the movie is also willing to poke fun at its own politics when, minutes later, Nimona sabotages a losing game of Monopoly with a comic rant about overthrowing our oppressors, and, as a capper, feigns sudden death.
Nimona
Rated PG. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes. Watch on Netflix.
Nimona Rated PG. Running time: 1 hour 41 minutes. On Netflix.
Photograph The knight Ballister Boldheart (voiced by Riz Ahmed) and the title character (voiced by Chloë Grace Moretz) in the animated film "Nimona." (PHOTOGRAPH BY NETFLIX) This article appeared in print on page C5.

Subject: Motion pictures

People: Ahmed, Riz

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/29/movies/nimona-review.html

Title: Getting Medieval On Oppressors, All Jokes Aside:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 30, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 2831149511

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/getting-medieval-on-oppressors-all-jokes-aside/docview/2831149511/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 30, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Let Children Get Bored. It's Good for Them.: [Science Desk]

Author: Pearson, Catherine

Publication info: Pearson, Catherine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/let-children-get-bored-good-them/docview/2829620459/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A reminder to parents soldiering through the summer: Boredom has its virtues.
I have a few particularly vivid memories of my childhood summers: the smell of the grill, the rattle of the cicadas -- and the feeling of being bored out of my mind.
While I had a relatively regimented schedule and spent long stretches of every summer at camp, there were weeks when my parents, who both worked, hadn't filled my schedule with much of anything, and they didn't give a hoot about whether I felt sufficiently engaged or amused.
That has been on my mind as my own sons make their way through the summer with a hodgepodge of camps, babysitters and grandparent time that is breathtakingly expensive and yet feels insufficient in terms of actual child care or stimulation.
I am hardly alone in feeling like it is my parental duty to stuff their days full of activities and learning opportunities. A study cited in a 2018 New York Times article that lamented the relentlessness of modern parenting found that regardless of education, income or race, parents believed children who are bored should be enrolled in extracurricular activities. As Erin Westgate, an assistant professor of psychology at the University of Florida, explained it to me, there is a kind of cultural stigma attached to boredom, particularly in the United States.
Only boring people get bored, the saying goes.
But the reality is that boredom is "normal, natural and healthy," said Dr. Westgate, whose research focuses on what boredom is, why people experience it and what happens when they do. Though she cautioned that there has been little empirical research exploring boredom in kids, Dr. Westgate believes that in moderate doses, boredom can offer a valuable learning opportunity, spurring creativity and problem solving and motivating children to seek out activities that feel meaningful to them.
"Guarding kids from ever feeling bored is misguided in the same way that guarding kids from ever feeling sad, or ever feeling frustrated, or ever feeling angry is misguided," she said.
Here's what you and your children can learn from feelings of boredom.
Boredom is informative.
Boredom is an emotion, said Dr. Westgate, who likened it to an indicator light on a car's dashboard: "Boredom is telling you that what you're doing right now isn't working." Usually that means the task you are doing is too easy or too difficult, she said, or that it lacks meaning.
One way parents can help children, particularly younger ones, learn to manage boredom is to work with them on developing what Dr. Westgate called greater emotional granularity. For instance, you can help them to distinguish between feeling sad or bored. "Name it to tame it," a phrase coined by the psychiatrist Dan Siegel, is a technique many child development experts use to help children identify their feelings.
Kids will often say "I'm bored" when they are lonely, or want attention, said Katie Hurley, who holds a doctorate in social work and is the author of "The Happy Kid Handbook." So it can help to ask if they are looking for comfort or companionship, she said.
Also, do what you can to normalize the feeling. "We have a tendency to treat boredom as a sign of distress, or a sort of call for help," Dr. Hurley said. "It is uncomfortable, but it's not necessarily negative."
Boredom can lead to fulfillment.
Boredom offers children an opportunity to experiment with the kinds of pursuits that feel fulfilling and interesting to them, Dr. Westgate said.
For example, if you let your kids loose in the backyard, they may feel bored initially, she said. But they can learn to prevent that feeling, or resolve it, by finding activities that feel meaningful to them, whether that's counting bugs, playing with a ball or drawing with sidewalk chalk. If parents don't allow for free, imaginative play, children may never discover their innate love of nature, sports or art, or even the pleasure they can find in simply relaxing or playing.
"Being able to identify and develop those sources of meaning is a really critical skill to have lifelong," Dr. Westgate said.
'Boredom busters' can break the spell.
Parents sometimes fear boredom, and the havoc it can wreak around the house, Dr. Hurley said. But free time carves out room for discovery. Dr. Hurley recommends looking at your child's weekly schedule and asking: "Is there something we can take away, and just call it 'quiet downtime'?"
But parents should not expect kids to instinctively know what might feel meaningful to them. Instead, parents should remind their children of things they are interested in or care about, Dr. Westgate said.
"It's the difference between leaving the child in a room with absolutely nothing to do," she said, versus "bringing them into a room that you know has books and puzzles -- things that would be meaningful to your kid -- and that would be a good fit for them." (She also noted that research has shown that without positive outlets, people can be more inclined to engage in harmful behaviors.)
Dr. Hurley said that kids aged 5 and under need a specific menu of "boredom busters," or questions like: Do you want to play with Legos? Do you want to play with Play-Doh? Do you want to go outside? Parents often feel pressure to get down on the floor and play with young children every time the children are feeling bored, she said, but that can keep children from learning how capable they are of stepping into their imaginations.
With slightly older children, Dr. Hurley said she might say something like, "Take a walk around the house and come up with three ideas, and get back to me." Once kids shift from a state of boredom to positive action, "it opens up creativity, problem solving and all kinds of academic learning skills."
Phones and devices require little effort, Dr. Westgate noted, so children and adults often turn to them as a way to soothe feelings of boredom.
"With kids, it makes complete sense that they ask for screens when they're bored, but that doesn't mean, obviously, that is what's best for them in that situation," she said.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN LANCASTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D6.

Subject: Problem solving; Parents & parenting; Children & youth; Extracurricular activities

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/19/well/family/kids-summer-boredom.html

Title: Let Children Get Bored. It's Good for Them.:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 27, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2829620459

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/let-children-get-bored-good-them/docview/2829620459/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Hokusai's Art Crashed Over the World: [Review]

Author: Farago, Jason

Publication info: Farago, Jason. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-hokusais-art-crashed-over-world/docview/2828583401/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The MFA Boston shows how one of the greatest printmakers, from Edo Japan, inspired a tidal wave of followers, from Gauguin to Lichtenstein.
One of the most influential figures in European modern culture never set foot in Europe. Katsushika Hokusai, like all subjects in self-isolated Edo Japan, could not have left the archipelago if he wanted to, and his publishers could not export his prints of Kabuki actors, flowers and Mount Fuji. But a few years after his death in 1849, when the "black ships" of Commodore Matthew Perry sailed into what's now Tokyo Bay, Japan's markets were forcibly opened, and Hokusai's woodblocks started to flutter over the ocean. In France, in Britain, and soon in America, a whole new kind of art would emerge: born in Tokyo, spanning the whole world.
In "Hokusai: Inspiration and Influence," an exhibition of Japanese woodblocks and global contemporary art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, one of the greatest of all printmakers appears at the nucleus of a worldwide cultural transformation, in which art became more urbane and more fleeting, and the observed world got flattened out into signs and symbols. Beautiful and bloated by turns (but well worth the trip), it makes ample use of the MFA's unparalleled collection of Japanese art. (In fact, the MFA organized the very first American Hokusai retrospective, back in 1892.)
Here you will see more than 100 of Hokusai's prints, paintings and manga -- literally "whimsical sketches" of bathers and courtesans and birds and beasts, which Hokusai published in 15 best-selling volumes. There are 11 ice-crisp sheets from his most famous series, "Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji," including those two coffee-mug icons: "Fine Wind, Clear Weather," which distills the august mountain to a clay-red cone, and "Under the Wave Off Kanagawa," known familiarly as the "Great Wave," in which the snow-capped Fuji nearly disappears beneath a tentacular blue breaker.
As the title signals, "Inspiration and Influence" is a show of two halves. A first section, fixed in 18th- and 19th-century Japan, charts Hokusai's education, apprenticeship, independent career and instruction of younger makers of the prints called "pictures of the floating world." He shares these initial galleries with his master teacher, Katsukawa Shunsho; his greatest rival, Utagawa Hiroshige; as well as several female artists, including his talented daughter, Katsushika Oi, represented by a handsome scroll painting of an all-women musical trio.
Then comes a more global second half, which skips across chronology, media and tone to highlight the worldwide migration and metabolization of Hokusai's vivid compositions and bourgeois themes. Prints by Gauguin and Whistler imbibe Hokusai's blocky colors and flattened spaces. There are Japan-mimicking decorative arts from the Steuben Glass Works or Boucheron jewelers, and snatches of Debussy's "La Mer," whose published score has Hokusai's wave on the cover. New art, of greater or (often) lesser importance and subtlety, hangs with contemporary manga.
Hokusai himself worked in commercial domains (the Western distinction between fine and popular art was hardly bright in the Edo period), so it's perfectly fine that this show skitters from paintings to comic books. By now he has penetrated popular culture so thoroughly to have become the only artist with his very own emoji: the cresting blue wave [ð], denuded of the half-drowned fishermen in the original woodblock.
But a lot of the contemporary work here is chintzy or schematic, and in going for quantity over quality, the show's second half feels a bit like ... a tide crashing over you. The MFA's best impression of Hokusai's wave appears here not in contemplative isolation but crowded among imitations, parodies and tribute acts. We find "Great Wave" copies by Andy Warhol and Yoshitomo Nara; some Mexican waveform bracelets and some trompe-l'oeil surfer-dude furniture; and even a promotional image of the willowy Olympic champion figure skater Yuzuru Hanyu, swanning in a blue-and-white costume and arcing his right arm like the Kanagawa surf. Roy Lichtenstein's "Drowning Girl" -- lent by the Museum of Modern Art and picturing a blue-haired woman vanishing beneath silvery waves -- is facing, embarrassing to say, a replica of Hokusai's big kahuna made from blue and white Lego blocks.
Hokusai was born in 1760, as Japan was coming out of a long depression and returning to prosperity. He was adopted by his uncle, who served the shogun as a maker of mirrors, and at age 19 he entered the studio of Shunsho, who specialized in imagery of actors and women. In a handsome side-by-side display of two scroll paintings by master and student, we see Shunsho distilling a dancer's motions into ripples of floral patterns, and Hokusai later using the same lines for the bunched fabric of a woman carrying firewood. The aristocratic and spiritual dimensions of painting were giving way to something more fashionable, more mondaine. The stage, the street, the bathhouse, the brothel: These would become, as much as the Japanese landscape, Hokusai's inspirations and obsessions.
Critically, his scenes of pleasure were more cosmopolitan than Westerners, who idolized the supposedly untainted beauty of "closed Japan," would later acknowledge. Hokusai and his students and rivals made use of Chinese and also Dutch antecedents to flatten the world into color and line, and sometimes used foreign pigments imported (or smuggled) through the trading post off Nagasaki.
This show includes two magnificent six-panel folding screens that Shunsho painted around 1790, in which well-dressed women lie along parallel diagonal lines at the same scale -- so-called axonometric perspective, a pillar of Chinese painting. Hanging right alongside is a lavish print series by Hokusai made 20 years later. It depicts a house of pleasures in Edo -- but now, the ladies up front are drawn bigger than the ladies in the rear.
One-point perspective, so revolutionary for the European Renaissance, became familiar to Japanese artists as early as the 1740s -- and they weren't that impressed. If a few, notably the printmaker Utagawa Toyoharu, made cunning use of the European technique, most saw it as little more than a party trick. Or so it was until Hokusai began integrating Asian and European methods of spatial delineation into a new, hybrid image of the modern world. My all-time favorite Hokusai is one of the "Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji" (and FYI, for your next art history pub quiz, there are actually 46 views: his publisher asked for some sequels), depicting travelers blown off a twisting road by a sudden gust of wind. The figures on the right-hand side are placed along a diagonal in the Chinese manner, but on the left, the figures shrink and recede upward, European-style. As for Fuji, the most majestic site in the country, it's nothing but three quick strokes: a swoop to the top, a bobble for the summit, a long glide back to the ground.
Europeans had, by Hokusai's day, been drawing from Chinese, Persian and Indian examples in the creation of the decorative arts. But when Japanese prints finally began to circulate in Western Europe after his death -- especially in 1870s Paris, defeated in war and transforming at full tilt into a metropolis -- they appeared as both aesthetic gems and spiritual life rafts. In Hokusai and his rivals, young Parisians losing their roots found a liberation from worn visual vocabularies, and Japonisme, as the fashion was called, stretched from the painting salon to the dinner table. Fuji-themed inkstands. Velvet curtains bedecked with lotus blossoms. Transferware with fish and fowl copied from manga. "Japonisme was in the process of revolutionizing the vision of the European peoples," wrote the diarist Edmond de Goncourt. The pottery, the lacquerware, and above all the woodblocks "brought to Europe a new sense of color, a new decorative system, and, if you prefer, a poetic imagination."
That these artists, composers and designers did not take a scientific interest in Japanese culture hardly needs spelling out, any more than Japanese printmakers did when they depicted the "exotic" West. But the French fashion for things Japanese offers one of the richest examples ever of the productive capacity of misunderstanding foreign things -- above all for the artists who would become the Impressionists and Post-Impressionists, whose soft colors, flat expanses and neglect of shading would never have emerged without their Japanese forerunners. It wasn't just the pictorial grammar; it was also Hokusai's bourgeois sensibility, his attention to theater and fashion and women of the night. That taste for city life convinced Monet, Degas and their peers that their fleeting impressions of modern French life could be the stuff of high art. And even as they indulged stereotypes of Japanese delicacy or purity -- when they fell into the "battery of desires, repressions, investments, and projections" that Edward Said called Orientalism -- these Europeans were changed all the same by Japan, and irrevocably.
The MFA show is too pell-mell in its second half to chart properly how Hokusai's example took global flight in the 20th century. The contemporary selections in particular have the feel of search-engine curating, and that Lego "Great Wave" should have stayed by the gift shop. What I'd really wished for, rather than all those literal waves and mountains, was more of the eclecticism that characterized Japonisme and that also animated the exchanges between Asia and the West in the 2009 Guggenheim exhibition "The Third Mind: American Artists Contemplate Asia, 1860--1989." A notable miss is the art of Yasumasa Morimura, who fed European artists' misapplications of Japan back into his own alienated self-portraits.
It would really have helped -- because a few years ago, America went through a painfully simplistic debate about how artists from one place should or should not depict images and objects from another. New shibboleths arose, phrases like "lived experience" and "power imbalance," to adjudicate who had the right to what pictures, what materials, what forms, what words. (The MFA crashed on these shoals; in 2015, it drew protests and counter-protests for inviting visitors to try on a kimono in front of a Japoniste portrait by Monet.) But what Hokusai and his successors affirm over and over is that there's no such thing as a pure "culture" divisible from others -- not even the culture of a shogunate whose subjects couldn't leave on pain of death. Culture is always an ebb and flow of fragmentations and recombinations, of encounters both violent and peaceful. You cannot stay separate; everything floats; your job is to ride the wave.
Hokusai: Inspiration and Influence
Through July 16, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 465 Huntington Avenue, Boston; 617-267-9300; mfa.org.
Hokusai: Inspiration and Influence Through July 16 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; 617-267-9300, mfa.org.
Photograph Katsushika Hokusai's woodblock print "Fine Wind, Clear Weather," also known as "Red Fuji," from the artist's series "Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji" (about 1830-31). (C1); "Scenes of Amusement in Spring and Summer" (1789-1801), left, by Katsukawa Shunsho and "Interior of a House in the Yoshiwara" (about 1808-13), right, by Katsushika Hokusai, with a shift in perspective (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON); The motif and style of Hokusai's woodblock print "Under the Wave Off Kanagawa" (about 1830-31), above, are evoked in popular works like Roy Lichtenstein's "Drowning Girl" (1963), above left. Left, "Ejiri in Suruga Province" (about 1830-31), by Hokusai, adopts a European approach to perspective.. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON; ESTATE OF ROY LICHTENSTEIN; MUSEUM OF MODERN ART/LICENSED BY SCALA/ART RESOURCE, NY) (C10) This article appeared in print on page C1, C10.

Subject: Artists; Prints and printmaking; Women; Painting; Art exhibits

Location: Mount Fuji; Japan; Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/22/arts/design/hokusai-boston-museum-fine-arts-review.html

Title: How Hokusai's Art Crashed Over the World:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 23, 2023

column: Art Review

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Arts Exhibits Review

ProQuest document ID: 2828583401

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-hokusais-art-crashed-over-world/docview/2828583401/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Hokusai’s Art Crashed Over the Modern World

Author: Farago, Jason

Publication info: Farago, Jason. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-hokusai-s-art-crashed-over-modern-world/docview/2828508399/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BOSTON — One of the most influential figures in European modern culture never set foot in Europe. Katsushika Hokusai, like all subjects in self-isolated Edo Japan, could not have left the archipelago if he wanted to, and his publishers could not export his prints of Kabuki actors, flowers and Mount Fuji. But a few years after his death in 1849, when the “black ships” of Commodore Matthew Perry sailed into what’s now Tokyo Bay, Japan’s markets were forcibly opened, and Hokusai’s woodblocks started to flutter over the ocean. In France, in Britain, and soon in America, a whole new kind of art would emerge: born in Tokyo, spanning the whole world.
In “Hokusai: Inspiration and Influence,” an exhibition of Japanese woodblocks and global contemporary art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, one of the greatest of all printmakers appears at the nucleus of a worldwide cultural transformation, in which art became more urbane and more fleeting, and the observed world got flattened out into signs and symbols. Beautiful and bloated by turns (but well worth the trip), it makes ample use of the MFA’s unparalleled collection of Japanese art. (In fact, the MFA organized the very first American Hokusai retrospective, back in 1892.)
Here you will see more than 100 of Hokusai’s prints, paintings and manga — “whimsical sketches” of bathers and courtesans and birds and beasts, which Hokusai published in 15 bestselling volumes. There are 11 ice-crisp sheets from his most famous series, “Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji,” including those two coffee-mug icons: “Fine Wind, Clear Weather,” which distills the august mountain to a clay-red cone, and “Under the Wave Off Kanagawa,” known familiarly as the “Great Wave,” in which the snow-capped Fuji nearly disappears beneath a tentacular blue breaker.
As the title signals, “Inspiration and Influence” is a show of two halves. A first section, fixed in 18th- and 19th-century Japan, charts Hokusai’s education, apprenticeship, independent career and instruction of younger makers of the prints called “pictures of the floating world.” He shares these initial galleries with his master teacher, Katsukawa Shunsho; his greatest rival, Utagawa Hiroshige; and several female artists, including his talented daughter, Katsushika Oi, represented by a handsome scroll painting of a female musical trio.
Then comes a more global second half, which skips across chronology, media and tone to highlight the worldwide migration and metabolization of Hokusai’s vivid compositions and bourgeois themes. Prints by Paul Gauguin and James McNeill Whistler imbibe Hokusai’s blocky colors and flattened spaces. There are Japan-mimicking decorative arts from the Steuben Glass Works or Boucheron jewelers, and snatches of Claude Debussy’s “La Mer,” whose published score has Hokusai’s wave on the cover. New art, of greater or (often) lesser importance and subtlety, hangs with contemporary manga.
Hokusai himself worked in commercial domains (the Western distinction between fine and popular art was hardly bright in the Edo period), so it’s perfectly fine that this show skitters from paintings to comic books. By now he has penetrated popular culture so thoroughly to have become the only artist with his very own emoji: the cresting blue wave, denuded of the half-drowned fishermen in the original woodblock.
But a lot of the contemporary work here is chintzy or schematic, and in going for quantity over quality, the show’s second half feels a bit like … a tide crashing over you. The MFA’s best impression of Hokusai’s wave appears here not in contemplative isolation but crowded among imitations, parodies and tribute acts. We find “Great Wave” copies by Andy Warhol and Yoshitomo Nara; some Mexican waveform bracelets and some trompe-l’oeil surfer dude furniture; and even a promotional image of willowy Olympic champion figure skater Yuzuru Hanyu, swanning in a blue-and-white costume and arcing his right arm like the Kanagawa surf. Roy Lichtenstein’s “Drowning Girl” — lent by the Museum of Modern Art and picturing a blue-haired woman vanishing beneath silvery waves — is facing, embarrassing to say, a replica of Hokusai’s big kahuna made from blue and white Lego blocks.
Hokusai was born in 1760, as Japan was coming out of a long depression and returning to prosperity. He was adopted by his uncle, who served the shogun as a maker of mirrors, and at age 19 he entered the studio of Shunsho, who specialized in imagery of actors and women. In a handsome side-by-side display of two scroll paintings by master and student, we see Shunsho distilling a dancer’s motions into ripples of floral patterns, and Hokusai later using the same lines for the bunched fabric of a woman carrying firewood.
The aristocratic and spiritual dimensions of painting were giving way to something more fashionable, more mondaine . The stage, the street, the bathhouse, the brothel: These would become, as much as the Japanese landscape, Hokusai’s inspirations and obsessions.
Critically, his scenes of pleasure were more cosmopolitan than Westerners — who idolized the supposedly untainted beauty of “closed Japan” — thought, and would later acknowledge. Hokusai and his students and rivals made use of Chinese and Dutch antecedents to flatten the world into color and line, and sometimes used foreign pigments imported (or smuggled) through the trading post off Nagasaki.
This show includes two magnificent six-panel folding screens that Shunsho painted around 1790, in which well-dressed women lie along parallel diagonal lines at the same scale — so-called axonometric perspective, a pillar of Chinese painting. Hanging alongside them is a lavish print series by Hokusai made 20 years later. It depicts a house of pleasures in Edo — but now, the ladies up front are drawn bigger than the ladies in the rear.
One-point perspective, so revolutionary for the European Renaissance, became familiar to Japanese artists as early as the 1740s, and they weren’t that impressed. If a few, notably printmaker Utagawa Toyoharu, made cunning use of the European technique, most saw it as little more than a party trick. Or so it was until Hokusai began integrating Asian and European methods of spatial delineation into a new, hybrid image of the modern world. My all-time favorite Hokusai is one of the “Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji” (and FYI, for your next art history pub quiz, there are actually 46 views; his publisher asked for some sequels), depicting travelers blown off a twisting road by a sudden gust of wind. The figures on the right-hand side are placed along a diagonal in the Chinese manner, but on the left, the figures shrink and recede upward, European-style. As for Fuji, the most majestic site in the country, it’s nothing but three quick strokes: a swoop to the top, a bobble for the summit, a long glide back to the ground.
Europeans had, by Hokusai’s day, been drawing from Chinese, Persian and Indian examples in the creation of decorative arts. But when Japanese prints began to circulate in Western Europe after his death — especially in 1870s Paris, defeated in war and transforming at full tilt into a metropolis — they appeared as both aesthetic gems and spiritual life rafts. In Hokusai and his rivals, young Parisians losing their roots found a liberation from worn visual vocabularies, and Japonisme, as the fashion was called, stretched from the painting salon to the dinner table. Fuji-themed inkstands. Velvet curtains bedecked with lotus blossoms. Transferware with fish and fowl copied from manga.
“Japonisme was in the process of revolutionizing the vision of the European peoples,” diarist Edmond de Goncourt wrote. The pottery, the lacquerware and above all the woodblocks “brought to Europe a new sense of color, a new decorative system, and, if you prefer, a poetic imagination.”
That these artists, composers and designers did not take a scientific interest in Japanese culture hardly needs spelling out, any more than Japanese printmakers did when they depicted the “exotic” West. But the French fashion for things Japanese offers one of the richest examples ever of the productive capacity of misunderstanding foreign things — above all for the artists who would become the impressionists and post-impressionists, whose soft colors, flat expanses and neglect of shading would never have emerged without their Japanese forerunners. It wasn’t just the pictorial grammar; it was also Hokusai’s bourgeois sensibility, his attention to theater and fashion and women of the night.
That taste for city life convinced Claude Monet, Edgar Degas and their peers that their fleeting impressions of modern French life could be the stuff of high art. And even as they indulged stereotypes of Japanese delicacy or purity — when they fell into the “battery of desires, repressions, investments, and projections” that Edward Said called Orientalism — these Europeans were changed all the same by Japan, and irrevocably.
The MFA show is too pell-mell in its second half to chart properly how Hokusai’s example took global flight in the 20th century. The contemporary selections in particular have the feel of search-engine curating, and that Lego “Great Wave” should have stayed by the gift shop. What I’d really wished for, rather than all those literal waves and mountains, was more of the eclecticism that characterized Japonisme and that also animated the exchanges between Asia and the West in the 2009 Guggenheim exhibition “The Third Mind: American Artists Contemplate Asia, 1860-1989.” A notable miss is the art of Yasumasa Morimura, who fed European artists’ misapplications of Japan back into his own alienated self-portraits.
It would really have helped, because a few years ago, America went through a painfully simplistic debate about how artists from one place should or should not depict images and objects from another. New shibboleths arose, phrases like “lived experience” and “power imbalance,” to adjudicate who had the right to what pictures, what materials, what forms, what words. (The MFA crashed on these shoals; in 2015, it drew protests and counterprotests for inviting visitors to try on a kimono in front of a Japoniste portrait by Monet.)
But what Hokusai and his successors affirm over and over is that there’s no such thing as a pure “culture” divisible from others — not even the culture of a shogunate whose subjects couldn’t leave on pain of death. Culture is always an ebb and flow of fragmentations and recombinations, of encounters both violent and peaceful. You cannot stay separate; everything floats; your job is to ride the wave.
—
‘ Hokusai: Inspiration and Influence’
Through July 16, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 465 Huntington Ave.; 617-267-9300; mfa.org.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Artists; Prints and printmaking; Women; Painting

Location: Mount Fuji; Japan; Europe

Identifier / keyword: Arts; Warhol, Andy; Boston (England); Jewels And Jewelry; Women And Girls; Beauty (Concept); Birds; Japan; Comic Books And Strips; Boucheron; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Books And Literature; Mount Fuji (Japan); Great Britain; Entertainment; Western Europe; Textiles; Nagasaki (Japan); Lichtenstein, Roy; International Trade And World Market; Furniture; Steuben Glass Llc; Culture (Arts); Europe; Museums; Art; Gauguin, Paul; Discrimination; Advertising And Marketing; Museum Of Fine Arts (Boston); Fashion And Apparel; Paris (France); Hiroshige; Collectors And Collections; Degas, Edgar; Kabuki (Japanese Theater); Said, Edward W; Figure Skating; Hanyu, Yuzuru; Nara, Yoshitomo; Netherlands; France; Monet, Claude; Tokyo (Japan); Debussy, Claude

Title: How Hokusai’s Art Crashed Over the Modern World

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-22T22:16:58Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2828508399

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-hokusai-s-art-crashed-over-modern-world/docview/2828508399/s e-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Teenage Fan's Homage Becomes Movie Reality: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Aguilar, Carlos

Publication info: Aguilar, Carlos. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teenage-fans-homage-becomes-movie-reality/docview/2824588296/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Preston Mutanga created a shot-for-shot version of the trailer with animated Lego characters. Then the producers asked him to work on the movie.
Early in the thrill-packed sequel "Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse," the story takes a brief yet memorable detour into a dimension that resembles Lego building blocks and figures.
The clever and amusing scene, a tribute to "The Lego Movie," was not the work of seasoned animation artists, but that of a 14-year-old fan turned professional creator living in Toronto.
Preston Mutanga, the prodigious Minnesota-born son of immigrant parents from the Northwest Region of Cameroon, had shown a flair for creativity from a young age. Forgoing the instructions for a set of Lego blocks, he built cars with his own designs.
"I also used to make comics when I was younger," Mutanga said during a recent video interview. "Looking back at them now, they're not the greatest, I'm not going to lie, but it was good practice for telling stories."
In December, the teenager started a project that would change the course of his young ambitions. Using his father's old computers, Mutanga recreated the trailer for "Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse" shot for shot to look as if it belonged in a Lego world.
By that point, he had been honing his skills for several years making short computer-generated Lego videos. "My dad showed me this 3-D software called Blender and I instantly got hooked on it," he said. "I watched a lot of YouTube videos to teach myself certain stuff."
He shared his version of the trailer online. The quality of his self-taught craftsmanship quickly gained attention and reached Phil Lord and Christopher Miller, the directors of "The Lego Movie" and two of the writer-producers of "Spider-Verse."
After deciding to include a segment in a Lego universe, Christina Steinberg, another of the film's producers, contacted Mutanga to ask him if he wanted to animate it.
"We found out that it was a 14-year-old kid who made it and we were like, 'This looks incredibly sophisticated for a nonadult, nonprofessional to have made," Miller said on a video call. "It blew us all away, including some of the best animators in the world."
Mutanga's supportive parents, Theodore and Gisele Mutanga, were skeptical when the production first contacted them. Not long before, their son's YouTube channel had been hacked, so the couple was reasonably wary that a Hollywood studio was seeking their son's talent.
But after finding the movie's Toronto-based production designer, Patrick O'Keefe, on LinkedIn, and confirming that Sony Pictures Animation's offer was legitimate, Theodore Mutanga, a medical physicist, built his son a new computer and bought him a state-of-the-art graphics card so he could render his work much faster.
His mother, Gisele Mutanga, a public health instructor, said, "I know Preston has a gift that was given to him by God, and once we identified that he had that gift, all we could do as parents was to nurture it and let him fly."
Over several weeks, first during spring break and then after finishing his homework on school nights, Mutanga worked on the Lego sequence. Every other week, he would meet via video with Miller, who would check on his progress and provide detailed input.
For the young storyteller, accustomed to working alone with complete creative freedom, collaborating as part of a larger production provided eye-opening. "One new thing I learned was definitely the feedback aspect of it, like how much stuff actually gets changed from the beginning to the final product," Mutanga said.
Miller saw Mutanga's contribution to "Across the Spider-Verse" not only as a testament to the democratization of filmmaking, but also to the artist's perseverance: he dedicated intensive time and effort to animation, which is "not ever fast or easy to make," Miller said.
"'The Lego Movie' is inspired by people making films with Lego bricks at home," Lord said by video. "That's what made us want to make the movie. Then the idea in 'Spider Verse' is that a hero can come from anywhere. And here comes this heroic young person who's inspired by the movie that was inspired by people like him."
While Mutanga is still dedicated to his high school studies, his career goal of becoming a full-time animator and director feels more within reach than he or his parents might have imagined at this stage. "I adored the first movie and was so hyped for the second one, so getting to work with the people who actually made this masterpiece was honestly like a dream," he said.
Photograph Above, Preston Mutanga, whose all-Lego fan trailer for a new Spider-Man film caused the filmmakers to ask him to animate a scene for the film itself. Below, Spidey in the Lego dimension, from the scene Mutanga worked on. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA SONY PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page C2.

Subject: Video recordings; Animation

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/07/movies/spider-man-across-the-spider-verse-lego.html

Title: Teenage Fan's Homage Becomes Movie Reality:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 12, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2824588296

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teenage-fans-homage-becomes-movie-reality/docview/2824588296/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Take Time to Look, Listen and Laugh: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/take-time-look-listen-laugh/docview/2823849764/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Looking for something to do in New York? Get the summer concert season rolling with Lizzo and others at Gov Ball or watch the films of a singular Japanese filmmaker.
Comedy
An Outdoor Red Hook Comedy Show
June 10 at 7:30 p.m. at Low Tide Motors, 50 Van Dyke Street, Brooklyn; eventbrite.com.
Kevin James Doyle is no stranger to finding unusual places to stage live stand-up.
Doyle, who wrote and starred with Margaret Copeland in the Off Broadway production "How to Be a New Yorker," filmed his first comedy special, "The 30-Year-Old Virgin," at the Parish of Calvary-St. George's, an Episcopal church in Manhattan. When the pandemic shut down performance spaces, Doyle said he found sanctuary at Low Tide Motors, an outdoor community motorcycle garage in Red Hook, Brooklyn, with room for about 150 spectators (and their dogs).
Saturday night's show will be the 10th at Low Tide and the first of 2023. Besides Doyle, the lineup will include Dina Hashem, Brad Howe and Dan Perlman, a creator and star of the Showtime series "Flatbush Misdemeanors." Tickets are $ 15 and available at Eventbrite. The rain date is June 17. SEAN L. McCARTHY
Music
Gov Ball
June 9-11, noon-10 p.m., at Flushing Meadows Corona Park, Queens; governorsballmusicfestival.com.
For some New Yorkers, Memorial Day weekend is the unofficial kickoff of summer. But for the festival set, the season begins with Gov Ball, the three-day bonanza that returns to Queens this weekend but is now setting up stage at Flushing Meadows Corona Park.
As usual, the organizers snagged A-list headliners, like Lizzo and Kendrick Lamar, as well as the electronic music duo Odesza. There are plenty of eye-catching names further down the bill, too. On Friday, highlights include Ice Spice, the Bronx rapper who has quickly risen from buzzed-about upstart to bona fide star; Kim Petras, a brash German pop singer with a devoted following; and Remi Wolf, a pop-funk artist. On Saturday, the Jamaican reggae musician Koffee and the R&B singer Amber Mark are among the standout acts; and on Sunday, PinkPantheress, a key figure in the recent drum-and-bass revival, and her fellow Brit, the drill rapper Central Cee, are not to be missed.
One-day tickets start at $ 139, and three-day passes, $ 319; they are available at the Gov Ball website. OLIVIA HORN
Ben Goldberg
Through June 10 at 8:30 p.m. at the Stone, 55 West 13th Street, Manhattan; thestonenyc.com.
The music of the clarinetist, composer and bandleader Ben Goldberg has deep roots -- klezmer, Dixieland, Thelonious Monk -- but it pushes restlessly forward, most recently into the tuneful avant-garde. On "Hard Science," which he released last year, the sextet he assembled for the album didn't see much of the music before recording in order to achieve of-the-moment freshness. His "Plague Diary" project, shared on Bandcamp throughout the Covid lockdown, explored piercingly emotional loop-and-pulse solos.
Goldberg's run at the Stone finds him in a predictably unpredictable mode, hosting a different ensemble each night. His trio Invisible Guy will perform on Thursday, augmented by what he calls a "Visible Guest," the musician and instrument maker Daniel Jodocy, joining in on contraptions of his own invention. On Friday, Goldberg will lead his Glamorous Escapades quartet, a murderers' row of improvisers (Steve Cardenas, Ben Allison and Allan Mednard), through "Porch Concert Material" from "Hard Science." And Saturday will mark the debut of Microdose, a quartet that came together after a chance meeting at Newark airport and features collaborators from the realm of avant metal (Matt Hollenberg and Kenny Grohowski) as well as the bassist Trevor Dunn. Tickets are $ 20 and only available at the door. ALAN SCHERSTUHL
Kids
KidsFilmFest
June 10, 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m., at Windmill Studios, 300 Kingsland Avenue, Brooklyn; brooklynfilmfestival.org.
Many children and teenagers love to watch movies, but some are surprisingly adept at making them, too. Cinema fans can see the evidence at the annual KidsFilmFest, where a majority of the directors this year are under 18, and the subjects of the short works include studious dinosaurs, adventurous cookies and a Lego character out to save the world.
Presented by the Brooklyn Film Festival, the kids' program is divided into segments according to the filmmakers' ages. At 11:15 a.m., attendees can enjoy "Dinosaur School" and "Lost and Found," classroom stop-motion projects by children under 10.
Animated films by adult directors screen at noon: "Ham" and "Spacepup," both featuring animal astronauts, and "Joy," which addresses the loss of a pet. At 12:45 p.m., all of the offerings are by young people over 10, some dealing with more serious subjects, like adolescent depression.
Each session concludes with a Q. and A. with visiting directors, as well as demonstrations of materials and techniques for aspiring filmmakers. Admission is free for children, $ 15 for adults. LAUREL GRAEBER
Film
Ozu 120
June 9-29 at Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, Manhattan; filmforum.org.
Although plenty of filmmakers have tried to make domestic dramas that resemble Yasujiro Ozu's, the more Ozu you watch, the more you realize that no director has ever been like him. A rigorous formalist with his own rules for staging and cutting, he was so precise he had a special stopwatch that counted frames as well as seconds, according to David Bordwell's great book "Ozu and the Poetics of Cinema."
While this Film Forum series opens with two of Ozu's most beloved and widely seen films, "Late Spring" (from Friday to Sunday, and on Tuesday and June 28) and "Tokyo Story" (showing several times beginning on Friday), there are other titles in the lineup, like "The Munekata Sisters" (on Saturday and Monday), that are less readily available in the United States. And later in the retrospective, Ichiro Kataoka, a benshi -- or narrator and performer -- will accompany screenings of a pair of Ozu's silent features, "I Was Born, But ..." (June 19) and "That Night's Wife" (June 20). BEN KENIGSBERG
Photograph Ice Spice, the rising Bronx rapper, is part of the lineup performing on Friday night at Gov Ball at Flushing Meadows Corona Park in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DUDELSON/GETTY IMAGES); The comedian Kevin James Doyle will do a set at Low Tide Motors on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARLAN J. ALFORD) This article appeared in print on page C2.

Subject: Rap music; Musicians & conductors; Motion picture directors & producers; Singers; Musical performances

People: James, Kevin

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/07/arts/things-to-do-in-new-york-city.html

Title: Take Time to Look, Listen and Laugh:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 9, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2823849764

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/take-time-look-listen-laugh/docview/2823849764/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Eating Ants? That's Fine.: [Correction]

Author: Holtermann, Callie

Publication info: Holtermann, Callie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/eating-ants-thats-fine/docview/2823392958/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On TikTok, the term is being used to describe romantic partners' weird habits that are less than a deal breaker, but not exactly a plus, either.
To sort through the chaos of modern dating, some taxonomically minded singles apply a color-coded system to potential partners. Red flags are behaviors to avoid (deceit, poor dental hygiene). Green flags are go-ahead signs (honesty, owning floss).
So what is a beige flag?
According to the TikTok users who have latched on to the term in the past month, a beige flag is an odd trait in a romantic prospect that is not quite a deal breaker, but not exactly a plus, either.
Dunking Oreos in water instead of milk is a beige flag. So is turning on caps lock to type the first letter of every sentence, or maintaining a Lego obsession into adulthood, or being afraid of astronauts.
Benign but baffling, they are the kinds of things that might come up in a gentle roast. As one user put it, a beige flag makes a potential partner or a partner pause and say "Huh?" for a few seconds before carrying on with the relationship.
"Everyone has their beige flags," said Marisa Bertani, 29, an actor in Los Angeles. For example, her girlfriend of over a year moves her couch to a different spot in her apartment roughly every two weeks. Ms. Bertani said she did not mind the habit, but she did not understand it, either. "I've never met anyone in my life that can think of so many ways to rearrange a living room," she said.
She posted a video about her partner's quirks on TikTok, where the hashtag #beigeflag has more than half a billion views. The videos, which are often set to a schmaltzy saxophone soundtrack, function as a kind of humblebrag: They appear self-effacing while still serving as a flex of the poster's relationship status.
Beige flags are just as subjective as the other ingredients in compatibility soup, said Kimberly Moffit, a therapist in Toronto who specializes in dating and relationships. What is adorable to one person will almost certainly be repellent to someone else, she added.
That beige flags are debatable may have helped the term take off on TikTok, a platform that prioritizes engagement. Many of the videos are accompanied by heated comment sections, some of them tens of thousands of messages long, in which viewers weigh in on just how peeved they would be by the trait in question.
Kallie Fockler, 19, a barista in eastern Ohio, watched one video in which a woman describes her boyfriend's habit of eating live ants he finds crawling around his house as a beige flag. "To me? Total red flag," Ms. Fockler said. (Many commenters agreed, although eating insects is common in many cultures outside the United States.)
Ms. Fockler posted a similar video about her own boyfriend, who struggles to remember plans but can retain a seemingly unlimited number of facts about sharks. Ms. Fockler is charmed by his encyclopedic knowledge of fin shapes, but some commenters on her video were not.
"I'll take the sharks," she said, "as long as you're not eating ants."
The newest shade of flag has entered a sprawling lexicon of dating terms that is expanding as more people discuss their love lives online. Definitions are in flux: In a video posted on TikTok last year, Caitlin MacPhail described beige flags as things that come across as boring on a dating app profile -- like alluding in any way to "The Office." "If you're looking for the Pam to your Jim, I'm just going to assume you have no deeper meaning," she said.
But the term has evolved into something weirder. "My husband's beige flag is when he acts like he's going to give me a kiss," one user wrote in a video posted last month, "but he's really hiding a whole strawberry in his mouth and then proceeds to push the strawberry into my mouth."
Lamont White, a dating coach in Atlanta, said it was good for partners to discover each other's beige flags. In the long term, we need to know if we can stomach a person's oddities -- and vice versa. "Guess what?" he said. "You have beige flags, too."
Ebony Jasmine Harris, 26, a content creator in Sarasota, Fla., thinks that anyone who denies having a beige flag is lying. Hers is that she refuses to save the phone number of anyone she's dating. "It is a little confusing," she admitted. "Sometimes I don't know who is who until I text the conversation."
When talk of red flags dominated TikTok, Ms. Harris said, she had started to feel discouraged about the dating scene. Beige flags have ever so slightly brightened her outlook.
"Maybe there's a little hope," she said, "that I'll just end up with somebody weird."
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALERII MINHIROV/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D2,

Subject: Personal relationships; Social life & customs; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Title: Eating Ants? That's Fine.:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 8, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2823392958

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/eating-ants-thats-fine/docview/2823392958/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

There Are No Universal Salves: [Style Desk]

Author: Havrilesky, Heather

Publication info: Havrilesky, Heather. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/there-are-no-universal-salves/docview/2813106486/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A mother finds herself spiritually out of stock at the Glossier flagship store in New York City.
My children and I were visiting New York City's most important landmarks, so naturally we began our journey at the Glossier flagship store in SoHo.
This store isn't a store so much as a national monument built to honor the brave few who fought to bring Futuredew oil serum hybrid and Cloud Paint seamless cheek color to the pale and dehydrated masses. Ever since 2014, those loyal to dewiness and glossiness have sought a consecrated place to pay homage to Balm Dotcom universal salve and Boy Brow grooming pomade. These and about 20 other small items luxuriate in roughly 3200 square feet of minimalist white space bathed in soft pink light, embodying the higher purpose at the heart of the Glossier mission:
At Glossier, we make products inspired by real life. We believe beauty is about having fun, celebrating freedom, and being present, because no matter where you are in your beauty journey -- YOU LOOK GOOD.
The mirror in the Glossier flagship store would like a word.
Although my children led me here to celebrate freedom, my personal beauty journey appears to have stalled out in some back alley where unsightly red splotches and desiccated lips have replaced plant-based, buttery moisture. I elbow my way through a hoard of teenagers to test Ultralip in Coupe, described as "a blood orange red." The Glossier website claims that wearing this lipstick feels just like "pulling on buttery-soft, well-loved cashmere sweatpants." But applying it with a Q-Tip under these late-pandemic conditions feels more like eating from a buffet table set up in a biological weapons lab.
I expect to be miraculously transformed into a fresh-faced teenager, but in the mirror I discover a creased old crone with inexplicably neon-orange lips.
"Oh Christ," I mutter. One of my eyebrows is very long -- we're talking Ernest Borgnine long. Now I'm chuckling maniacally. Dewy children close in around me on all sides, impatient for their turn at the mirror.
Forget that the entire Glossier product line could fit easily into one small tote bag. Forget that most of these kids have already purchased these items several times online. The point is to see the products in their native habitat, christened in soft pink light, patrolled by ladies in light pink jumpsuits with tablets in their hands, each ready to help us have more fun and be more present.
I pick up a tube of Balm Dotcom in Birthday. There's a little sticker on the side of it with the words OUT OF STOCK written on it. I pick up another tube. OUT OF STOCK.
Many of the 20 or so products present are OUT OF STOCK.
This shortage has the effect of bestowing the few remaining in stock items with an air of preciousness and necessity. My older daughter selects a tube of lavender Balm Dotcom, the only scent currently available. We marvel at how very lavender it smells. Its lavenderness starts to feel almost miraculous, like stumbling on an old canister of Glade rug and room deodorizer spray from 1987 and huffing it into your lungs until you're hammered on the fumes.
I fish for my phone and pull up the Glossier store online. Every item is in stock. At the Sephora down the block later that day, the entire Glossier line is available. This supply chain crisis seems limited to the exact 3200 square feet of prime Soho real estate dedicated to celebrating these products and their sublime contributions to the human endeavor.
We've unknowingly stumbled into the center of an emollient void, a serum desert. Products that were a click away a few minutes earlier are now unreachable. The realization spreads from one young face to another: There are no universal salves! Life is short and brutal and sheer, shimmering veils of blendable eye color are few and far between!
Now what once glowed with a rosy flush of youthful optimism has assumed the pale pink of a fading heart unable to go on, knowing that undetectable, flexible coverage could be ripped out of one's grasp in a single, fleeting moment.
Perhaps the national Glossier monument was cleverly designed for this very purpose -- to incite sensations of panic and loss in all who enter. Drawn in by this shimmering lodestar of freedom, visitors are soon forced to reckon with an archaic world where parched skin and chapped elbows were daily realities. With each mounting OUT OF STOCK sticker, young hearts must grapple with the harsh truth: Beauty was not about fun during the Middle Ages. Staying dewy during the Crusades mostly meant scavenging tubers out of a neighbor's muddy field without getting mauled by his bloodthirsty hounds. Being present was a major challenge during the Irish potato famine of 1845. For several centuries before industrialization, your beauty journey mostly included soaking gout-ridden feet in a cold stream, dragging a rough stone over calloused elbows, or rubbing pig fat into prematurely graying temples. And if you somehow managed to LOOK GOOD, that only got you married off to the wealthy old butcher 20 years your senior who lived in a nearby village and spent his leisure hours throwing axes at the wall. Life was neither energizing nor cruelty-free!
In stark contrast to this overheated age of never ending glow-ups, human existence has long been marked by sacrifice and drought, scrounging and suffering, unwanted body hair and uncontrollable hives!
"Let's go to the Lego flagship store now," my younger daughter says as we exit Glossier. "There might be a line outside, though."
Heather Havrilesky writes the Ask Polly advice column on Substack and is the author of four books, most recently the memoir "Foreverland."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST2.

Subject: Out of stock

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/12/style/there-are-no-universal-salves.html

Title: There Are No Universal Salves:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 14, 2023

column: Episode

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813106486

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/there-are-no-universal-salves/docview/2813106486/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Pioneer in Wind Power Is Back in Start-Up Mode: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Reed, Stanley

Publication info: Reed, Stanley. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pioneer-wind-power-is-back-start-up-mode/docview/2812914243/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The contemporary wind power industry, which has spawned hundreds of thousands of spinning rotors generating electricity without putting greenhouse gases into the air, was to a great extent born in a notoriously windy region of Denmark called Jutland.
It was here almost 50 years ago, after the 1973 oil embargo cut energy supplies to much of the West, that inventors and machinists began comparing notes about ways to harness the wind that sweeps across this flat expanse separating the North Sea from the islands that form the rest of Denmark. And while countless people have played a role in refining the machines that stud coastlines, plains and mountain ridges, perhaps no one has had more influence than a Jutlander named Henrik Stiesdal.
As a young man of 21, he built a rudimentary machine to generate electricity for his parents' farm. He was later co-designer of an innovative three-bladed turbine that set the stage for what has become a multibillion-dollar global industry. His inventions have led to about a thousand patents, and Mr. Stiesdal is widely seen as a pioneer in this very Danish field.
At age 66, he is not done. After decades working for what became some of the giant companies in wind energy, Mr. Stiesdal is putting his ideas into a start-up that bears his name, pursuing innovative ways to offer clean and affordable energy and tackle climate change.
At a factory in Give, a small town near the middle of Jutland, workers with welding tools are gearing up to produce massive tetrahedral structures, designed by Mr. Stiesdal, that will serve as bases for floating wind turbines. Made of tubes and resembling huge Lego toys, they will sit partly submerged, covering an area of roughly two American football fields.
Nearby, engineers are testing a machine that looks like a series of stacks of cafeteria trays. It is a new design for an electrolyzer -- a device that takes water and, from it, derives hydrogen gas, which is drawing increasing attention as a replacement for fossil fuels.
Two hours north is another product under development: an industrial oven that bakes farm waste -- like manure and straw -- so that its carbon content can't escape into the atmosphere and form carbon dioxide. It is carbon capture in action.
"You can see that it is not just talk" about climate change, Mr. Stiesdal said. "We have undertaken to do something."
A tall, plain-spoken man not afraid to experiment with hydrogen, a potentially explosive gas, in his basement, Mr. Stiesdal is betting that his suite of technologies will contribute to a significant cut in greenhouse gas emissions. He also wants to ensure that Denmark and other Northern Europe countries stay in the forefront as investment in the transition from fossil fuels to other energy sources ramps up.
Mr. Stiesdal is taking the initiative when the renewable-energy industry in Northern Europe is in the doldrums. The region's flagship wind turbine makers, including his former employer Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, have struggled because of rising costs and the slow approval of projects. The worry is that Chinese manufacturers, which long ago established dominance in making solar panels, will do the same in wind. Mr. Stiesdal has raised about $ 100 million for his company, Stiesdal, tapping a small group of investors. His family owns about 20 percent of the company, which has 125 employees. To keep costs down and to extend his reach, he plans to mostly license the new products, letting others build them.
Investors say they like Mr. Stiesdal's combination of technological smarts and focus on lowering costs. "He also has a strong business understanding, meaning he can attract money like ours," said Torben Moger Pedersen, chief executive of PensionDanmark, which manages retirement funds for 800,000 workers and is one of Stiesdal's largest investors.
Mr. Stiesdal is trying again to find the creative spark that led Jutland and Denmark to play a world-leading role in reducing carbon emissions, mostly through wind, over the last half-century.
In Jutland, in the 1970s, many young Danes were experimenting with generating electricity from wind, partly as a countercultural kick spurred by the high energy costs of the 1973 oil embargo, but also as an alternative to nuclear power, which they scorned.
"We wanted to go to Jutland and make a greener world," said Erik Grove-Nielsen, an early maker of wind turbine blades.
Mr. Stiesdal can date his aversion to fossil fuels to a bicycle trip to England when he was 19 and found himself riding for hours through a cloud of smoke spewing from a power plant.
"That gave me a strong feeling that this is not right," he said.
In the late 1970s, he and a blacksmith, Karl Erik Jorgensen (who died in 1982), designed a wind turbine for a local company now called Vestas Wind Systems, at the time a maker of cranes. Their machine combined a number of ideas that became known as the "Danish concept." It had three blades and "air brakes" to keep them from spinning out of control -- a common hazard. They also engineered the device to keep facing directly into the wind, for maximum energy yield.
At the time, Vestas was experimenting with a less efficient two-bladed prototype. The three-bladed machine became a foundation for Vestas, which is now the world-leading manufacturer of turbines, with 14.5 billion euros (nearly $ 16 billion) in sales in 2022.
After dividing time between college and consulting for Vestas, Mr. Stiesdal joined a second Jutland company that would become a giant in the industry, now called Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy. He led technical breakthroughs, like one-piece casting of blades, that allowed wind turbines to evolve from relatively small structures for farms to towers with blades more than 300 feet long.
"He established that vision and dream, and then he turned it into reality," said Steffen Poulsen, who heads design of new turbines at Siemens Gamesa.
Perhaps Mr. Stiesdal's most lasting advance was leading the industry into the sea, through the construction of the world's first offshore wind farm in 1991, a relatively modest project in shallow waters near Vindeby, Denmark. Vast arrays of seagoing turbines are now a common sight along many shores, and a major source of renewable electric power.
This innovation has helped nurture in Denmark two of the world's largest renewable energy developers: the Vindeby wind farm's owner, Orsted, and Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners, a private company with €19 billion under management.
"We have such a strong ecosystem that I think we will continue to be well positioned," said Mads Nipper, Orsted's chief executive.
Since retiring as chief technology officer of Siemens Gamesa, Mr. Stiesdal has looked for new ways to make a mark. One area: floating turbines, which can operate in deeper water than traditional wind farms. Although they open up far greater expanses of ocean to wind generation, floaters cost more to install, in part because they are not produced in assembly lines. Mr. Stiesdal aims to change that.
Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners has helped finance a prototype of a floating base designed by Mr. Stiesdal that would support a turbine, with an eye to using his design on future projects, including off Eureka in Northern California.
"Henrik is very focused on making sure the floaters can be produced in a smart way," said Torsten Smed, a co-founder and senior partner at Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners. The company is making these structures in Jutland for a wind farm planned off Scotland, using robots and other technology to remain competitive despite Denmark's high labor costs.
Mr. Stiesdal, with researchers at the Technical University of Denmark, is also developing electrolyzers that are intended to cut the high cost of making so-called green hydrogen, which is free of emissions. Climate experts and industrialists say hydrogen is likely to be needed to power heavy industries, such as steel, and perhaps vehicles like airplanes and trucks.
While his electrolyzers are still in the shakedown stage, Mr. Stiesdal has a preliminary agreement with Reliance Industries, an energy giant based in India, to manufacture the devices.
He is also building an enlarged version of his carbon capture machine, SkyClean, which uses heat to turn agricultural waste into what looks like charcoal pellets that can permanently lock up carbon and thus, he says, prevent it from returning to the atmosphere.
Mr. Stiesdal's company, like many start-ups, is losing money, he said, but he hopes to break even by next year. He thinks he has a good chance of success because the technologies he is nurturing are suited to a small country like Denmark, which has just under six million people.
The products are not especially high tech or labor intensive, he said, but depend on a hands-on approach and a well-educated work force produced by a widely accessible university system.
"In many ways," he said, "they resemble what I did as a pioneer 45 years ago."
A wind turbine near the office of Henrik Stiesdal in Give, Denmark. In the late 1970s, Mr. Stiesdal was one of the designers of the first three-bladed turbines. Today, he's working with a start-up on new technologies for clean energy (B1); Erik Grove-Nielsen at his home laboratory in Roslev, Denmark. Mr. Grove-Nielsen, above with a box of samples of carbon fiber, was part of a generation of Danes experimenting with wind power. "We wanted to go to Jutland and make a greener world," he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLOTTE DE LA FUENTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Henrik Stiesdal in 1978, with his father, Ove, and the wind turbine he built for his parents' farm. Later he designed a turbine for a local company called Vestas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STIESDAL) (B6); Workers, left and below, building windmill towers at Welcon's factory in Give, Denmark, the largest of its kind in Europe. At bottom, inside Mr. Stiesdal's SkyClean project, which bakes agricultural waste to prevent its carbon content from escaping into the atmosphere. (B6-B7); Testing liquids for use in electrolyzers, above, and some of the related testing equipment, at left. The machine under development can use water to produce hydrogen gas, which is drawing attention as a replacement for fossil fuels. Mr. Stiesdal, at far left, is funding research at the Technical University of Denmark to reduce the costs in the process. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLOTTE DE LA FUENTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6, B7.

Subject: Electricity distribution; Emissions; Hydrogen; Wind farms; Climate change; Industrial plant emissions; Nuclear power plants; Turbines; Carbon sequestration; Wind power; Gases; Infrastructure; Energy industry; Costs; Fossil fuels; Inventors; Startups; Electricity generation; Renewable resources; Design; Alternative energy sources; Product development

Business indexing term: Subject: Infrastructure Energy industry Costs Startups Renewable resources Product development

Location: Denmark; Northern Europe; Jutland

Company / organization: Name: Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy; NAICS: 221115

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/03/business/energy-environment/denmark-wind-power-stiesdal.html

Title: A Pioneer in Wind Power Is Back in Start-Up Mode:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 13, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2812914243

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pioneer-wind-power-is-back-start-up-mode/docview/2812914243/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Danish Wind Pioneer Keeps Battling Climate Change

Author: Reed, Stanley

Publication info: Reed, Stanley. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/danish-wind-pioneer-keeps-battling-climate-change/docview/2812914144/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
GIVE, Denmark — The contemporary wind power industry, which has spawned hundreds of thousands of spinning rotors generating electricity without putting greenhouse gases into the air, was to a great extent born in a notoriously windy region of Denmark called Jutland.
It was here almost 50 years ago, after the 1973 oil embargo cut energy supplies to much of the West, that inventors and machinists began comparing notes about ways to harness the wind that sweeps across this flat expanse separating the North Sea from the islands that form the rest of Denmark. And while countless people have played a role in refining the machines that stud coastlines, plains and mountain ridges, perhaps no one has had more influence than a Jutlander named Henrik Stiesdal.
At 21, he built a rudimentary machine to generate electricity for his parents’ farm. He was later co-designer of an innovative three-bladed turbine that set the stage for what has become a multibillion-dollar global industry. His inventions have led to about a thousand patents, and Stiesdal is widely seen as a pioneer in this very Danish field.
At 66, he is not done. After decades working for what became some of the giant companies in wind energy, Stiesdal is putting his ideas into a startup that bears his name, pursuing innovative ways to offer clean and affordable energy and tackle climate change.
At a factory in Give, a small town near the middle of Jutland, workers with welding tools are gearing up to produce massive tetrahedral structures, designed by Stiesdal, that will serve as bases for floating wind turbines. Made of tubes and resembling huge Lego toys, they will sit partly submerged, covering an area of roughly two American football fields.
Nearby, engineers are testing a machine that looks like a series of stacks of cafeteria trays. It is a new design for an electrolyzer — a device that takes water and, from it, derives hydrogen gas, which is drawing increasing attention as a replacement for fossil fuels.
Two hours north is another product under development: an industrial oven that bakes farm waste — like manure and straw — so that its carbon content can’t escape into the atmosphere and form carbon dioxide. It is carbon capture in action.
“You can see that it is not just talk” about climate change, Stiesdal said. “We have undertaken to do something.”
A tall, plain-spoken man not afraid to experiment with hydrogen, a potentially explosive gas, in his basement, Stiesdal is betting that his suite of technologies will contribute to a significant cut in greenhouse gas emissions. He also wants to ensure that Denmark and other Northern Europe countries stay in the forefront as investment in the transition from fossil fuels to other energy sources ramps up.
Stiesdal is taking the initiative when the renewable-energy industry in Northern Europe is in the doldrums. The region’s flagship wind turbine makers, including his former employer Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, have struggled because of rising costs and the slow approval of projects. The worry is that Chinese manufacturers, which long ago established dominance in making solar panels, will do the same in wind
Stiesdal has raised about $100 million for his company, Stiesdal, tapping a small group of investors. His family owns about 20% of the company, which has 125 employees. To keep costs down and to extend his reach, he plans to mostly license the new products, letting others build them.
Investors say they like Henrik Stiesdal’s combination of technological smarts and focus on lowering costs. “He also has a strong business understanding, meaning he can attract money like ours,” said Torben Moger Pedersen, chief executive of PensionDanmark, which manages retirement funds for 800,000 workers and is one of the Stiesdal company’s largest investors.
Henrik Stiesdal is trying again to find the creative spark that led Jutland and Denmark to play a world-leading role in reducing carbon emissions, mostly through wind, over the last half-century.
In Jutland, in the 1970s, many young Danes were experimenting with generating electricity from wind, partly as a countercultural kick spurred by the high energy costs of the 1973 oil embargo, but also as an alternative to nuclear power, which they scorned.
“We wanted to go to Jutland and make a greener world,” said Erik Grove-Nielsen, an early maker of wind turbine blades.
Stiesdal can date his aversion to fossil fuels to a bicycle trip to England when he was 19 and found himself riding for hours through a cloud of smoke spewing from a power plant.
“That gave me a strong feeling that this is not right,” he said.
In the late 1970s, he and a blacksmith, Karl Erik Jorgensen (who died in 1982), designed a wind turbine for a local company now called Vestas Wind Systems, at the time a maker of cranes. Their machine combined a number of ideas that became known as the “Danish concept.” It had three blades and “air brakes” to keep them from spinning out of control — a common hazard. They also engineered the device to keep facing directly into the wind, for maximum energy yield.
At the time, Vestas was experimenting with a less efficient two-bladed prototype. The three-bladed machine became a foundation for Vestas, which is now the world-leading manufacturer of turbines, with 14.5 billion euros (nearly $16 billion) in sales in 2022.
After dividing time between college and consulting for Vestas, Stiesdal joined a second Jutland company that would become a giant in the industry, now called Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy. He led technical breakthroughs, like one-piece casting of blades, that allowed wind turbines to evolve from relatively small structures for farms to towers with blades more than 300 feet long.
“He established that vision and dream, and then he turned it into reality,” said Steffen Poulsen, who heads design of new turbines at Siemens Gamesa.
Perhaps Stiesdal’s most lasting advance was leading the industry into the sea, through the construction of the world’s first offshore wind farm in 1991, a relatively modest project in shallow waters near Vindeby, Denmark. Vast arrays of seagoing turbines are now a common sight along many shores, and a major source of renewable electric power.
This innovation has helped nurture in Denmark two of the world’s largest renewable energy developers: the Vindeby wind farm’s owner, Orsted, and Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners, a private company with 19 billion euros under management.
“We have such a strong ecosystem that I think we will continue to be well positioned,” said Mads Nipper, Orsted’s chief executive.
Since retiring as chief technology officer of Siemens Gamesa, Stiesdal has looked for new ways to make a mark. One area: floating turbines, which can operate in deeper water than traditional wind farms. Although they open up far greater expanses of ocean to wind generation, floaters cost more to install, in part because they are not produced in assembly lines. Stiesdal aims to change that.
Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners has helped finance a prototype of a floating base designed by Stiesdal that would support a turbine, with an eye to using his design on future projects, including off Eureka in Northern California.
“Henrik is very focused on making sure the floaters can be produced in a smart way,” said Torsten Smed, a co-founder and senior partner at Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners. The company is making these structures in Jutland for a wind farm planned off Scotland, using robots and other technology to remain competitive despite Denmark’s high labor costs.
Stiesdal, with researchers at the Technical University of Denmark, is also developing electrolyzers that are intended to cut the high cost of making so-called green hydrogen, which is free of emissions. Climate experts and industrialists say hydrogen is likely to be needed to power heavy industries, such as steel, and perhaps vehicles like airplanes and trucks.
While his electrolyzers are still in the shakedown stage, Stiesdal has a preliminary agreement with Reliance Industries, an energy giant based in India, to manufacture the devices.
He is also building an enlarged version of his carbon capture machine, SkyClean, which uses heat to turn agricultural waste into what looks like charcoal pellets that can permanently lock up carbon and thus, he says, prevent it from returning to the atmosphere.
Stiesdal’s company, like many startups, is losing money, he said, but he hopes to break even by next year. He thinks he has a good chance of success because the technologies he is nurturing are suited to a small country like Denmark, which has just under 6 million people.
The products are not especially high tech or labor intensive, he said, but depend on a hands-on approach and a well-educated workforce produced by a widely accessible university system.
“In many ways,” he said, “they resemble what I did as a pioneer 45 years ago.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Electricity distribution; Emissions; Hydrogen; Wind farms; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Nuclear power plants; Turbines; Carbon sequestration; Gases; Infrastructure; Energy industry; Costs; Fossil fuels; Inventors; Electricity generation; Renewable resources; Design; Alternative energy sources; Product development

Business indexing term: Subject: Infrastructure Energy industry Costs Renewable resources Product development

Location: Denmark; Northern Europe; Jutland; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Technical University of Denmark; NAICS: 611310; Name: Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy; NAICS: 221115; Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Energy And Power; Air Pollution; Agriculture And Farming; California; Technical University; Europe; Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica S A; International Relations; Hydrogen; Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners; India; Family Business; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Names, Organizational; North Sea; Inventions And Patents; Electric Light And Power; Alternative And Renewable Energy; Carbon Dioxide; Carbon Capture And Sequestration; Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy Sa; Innovation; Sustainable Living; Nuclear Energy; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; England; Denmark; Global Warming; Siemens Ag; Wind Power; Reliance Industries; Fuel Efficiency; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Factories And Manufacturing; Eureka (Calif); Corporate Social Responsibility; Labor And Jobs; Vesta s Wind Systems As; Copenhagen (Denmark); Orsted As; Business; Colleges And Universities; Appointments And Executive Changes; Greenhouses; Start Ups; Wind; Scotland

Title: Danish Wind Pioneer Keeps Battling Climate Change

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-12T22:28:12Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2812914144

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/danish-wind-pioneer-keeps-battling-climate-change/docview/2812914144/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Echoes of Pain in Chavez Ravine: [Sports Desk]

Author: Jiménez, Jesus

Publication info: Jiménez, Jesus. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/echoes-pain-chavez-ravine/docview/2810767890/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: LOS ANGELES -- Standing less than a mile from Dodger Stadium on a recent Saturday afternoon, Vincent Montalvo could hear the roar of the crowd inside the ballpark.
It was Jackie Robinson Day, and more than 50,000 fans were nestling into their seats for a matchup against the Chicago Cubs. But Montalvo had no plans to attend.
It has been more than 30 years since he has stepped inside Dodger Stadium. His father took him to the ballpark when he was a child in the 1980s during "Fernandomania," the craze surrounding the star Mexican pitcher Fernando Valenzuela.
But the seemingly harmless act of attending that game deepened a wound that has festered in the Montalvo family and the city's Latino community. Reckoning with that hurt has been a challenge for the Dodgers as the team has tried to maintain a balance between acknowledging it and broadening the team's widely Latino fan base.
Long before the Dodgers won their first World Series at Dodger Stadium in 1963 and Sandy Koufax tossed the team's first perfect game in 1965, the land the ballpark was built on was home to hundreds of families living in communities called Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop.
Those neighborhoods and their residents were displaced in the 1950s by the city of Los Angeles, citing plans to build affordable housing. But eventually the land was given to the Dodgers to build a ballpark after the team moved to the city from Brooklyn in the late '50s. The area is now commonly called Chavez Ravine, a term that has become synonymous with Dodger Stadium.
Montalvo's grandfather and grandmother were born and raised in Palo Verde. Even though Montalvo's father didn't know that before going to that game in the '80s, Montalvo's grandfather resented that they visited the ballpark that had replaced his neighborhood.
"We never went back," Montalvo said.
The story of this displacement has been well documented in books, news articles and videos. But in recent years, descendants of marginalized communities in California have had success seeking reparations for land that was taken from them, in the form of money or the return of land. Spurred by that momentum, the descendants of the three Los Angeles communities see a chance to seek their own justice. The land on which Dodger Stadium was built, they say, should be returned to them.
Bought Out or Pushed Out
Montalvo's grandfather has long been reluctant to talk about his life in Palo Verde. But over time, Montalvo has gathered bits of information about the community, including that many residents sustained themselves by growing their own food.
"It was kind of like their little oasis there," Montalvo said.
But in the early 1950s, the city of Los Angeles began displacing the residents of Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop, through voluntary purchases and eminent domain, with plans to build a housing project in the area.
It was never built, and eventually, after the Dodgers moved to Los Angeles, the team acquired the deed to the land. A condition was that the team build a stadium with capacity for at least 50,000 people.
The process of displacing 300 families from the area was long and for many residents painful. While many sold their land to the city, others held out.
The last of the families were forcefully evicted by sheriff's deputies in May 1959. One woman, Aurora Vargas, who was known as Lola, was infamously photographed being carried out of her home by deputies. An article in The Los Angeles Times on May 9, 1959, described the scene as a "long skirmish." Vargas was kicking and screaming and children were "wailing hysterically," the newspaper reported.
Several years later, Melissa Arechiga, 48, learned about the eviction from her mother, and that Vargas had been her Aunt Lola. Arechiga found it hard to believe.
"When she told me it just sounded more like something out of a movie," Arechiga said.
The Start of a Movement
Montalvo and Arechiga met in 2018 and founded Buried Under the Blue, a nonprofit organization that seeks to raise awareness about the history of the displacement of the residents of Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop.
As so-called land-back movements have gained momentum, Montalvo and Arechiga have been working to define what reparations mean for them and how to get them.
"We know we're going uphill," Montalvo said. "But we also know this: There's a time right now in politics, both up and down the state, about reparations."
Those seeking reparations in California have been encouraged by the story of Bruce's Beach, a property that was bought by a Black couple, Charles and Willa Bruce, in 1912 in what would become the city of Manhattan Beach, Calif. The land was taken from the Bruces in 1924 when city officials condemned it through eminent domain, claiming to need it for a public park.
Last year, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors voted to transfer ownership of the land to the great-grandsons and great-great-grandsons of Charles and Willa Bruce. They sold the land back to the county for $ 20 million.
Buried Under the Blue and the descendants of those who were displaced have political support, including from Eunisses Hernandez, a member of the Los Angeles City Council who said she stands with them.
"Oftentimes we are in these situations because companies, corporations, people with a lot of money, have felt that other communities were disposable," Hernandez said. "We are still confronted with moments like that even today, and so we have to demand that these corporations, these companies, give back to the communities that they have taken from."
But Hernandez said that she would like to see a concrete plan from organizers on what reparations would look like before moving forward.
Leaders of Buried Under the Blue have also met with the descendants of Indigenous tribes that once lived in the Los Angeles Basin. In a true land-back effort, they say, land should be returned to the Indigenous groups who were the first occupants.
"There can't be true land-back without the Indigenous people first," Arechiga said.
Even if the land were returned to the descendants of the Indigenous tribes, Montalvo said, homeowners and renters who were displaced would still deserve financial reparations for investing in the community.
Buried Under the Blue has yet to determine what it would do with the land if it were ever returned, and it's unclear if that will ever happen or how long it would take.
At Dodger Stadium
Chavez Ravine is home to one of the most iconic ballparks in baseball, tucked between the San Gabriel Mountains and downtown Los Angeles. Dodger Stadium hosts dozens of games a year as well as concerts and other events. One of the wealthiest teams in Major League Baseball plays there.
For the Dodgers to be effectively forced out may seem unimaginable to some.
"It's going to take a lot," Hernandez said. "They're not going against just a small company. This is a brand and a company that's known throughout the country and the world, and so I just think folks need to organize and get as much people, power and support to support the demands that they have."
Walking into Dodger Stadium these days, fans are almost instantly met with the sound of Spanish in several forms.
There are fans speaking Spanish, others Spanglish. Julio Urías, a Dodgers pitcher from Mexico, takes the field to "Soy Sinaloense" -- I'm Sinaloan -- by Gerardo Ortiz. Throughout Dodger Stadium, fans sport "Los Dodgers" jerseys and shirts, and restrooms and other parts of the ballpark are labeled in English and Spanish.
The Dodgers built their Latino fan base, one of the largest in Major League Baseball, partly through their long history of fielding Latino players, including Valenzuela and Adrián González.
Creating that Latino support, however, took time after the displacement of so many Mexican American families in the late 1950s. Adrian Burgos, a University of Illinois professor who teaches about race, sports and society, said pushing out local residents "set up a very bad relationship between the Mexican American community and the Dodgers."
"It really doesn't change much till Fernando," Burgos said, referring to Valenzuela. "He began to make it OK for Mexicanos to root for the Dodgers."
Margaret Salazar-Porzio, a National Museum of American History curator who has worked on initiatives such as "Latinos and Baseball: In the Barrios and the Big Leagues," said that Valenzuela's arrival with the Dodgers was a sort of "symbolic reconciliation with many Latinos in L.A. at that time."
"He kind of looks like your uncle or your brother," Salazar-Porzio said. "Fernando Valenzuela gave Mexican Angelenos a reason to celebrate and to show up to the games."
The Dodgers also brought in the first full-time Spanish-language broadcast in M.L.B. under announcer René Cárdenas, who was joined by Jaime Jarrín.
"He became really quickly one of the most recognizable voices in L.A. Latino households," Salazar-Porzio said of Jarrín. "He brought the Dodgers into our homes."
Making Amends
Since the 1980s, the Dodgers have continued to grow their Latino fan base with help from players like Urías, who was on the mound for the final out of the team's 2020 World Series win.
But the team, which did not comment for this article, has still wrestled with how to make amends with displaced residents and their descendants.
In 2000, team officials, including former President Bob Graziano, joined former residents and their families for a ceremony at a church. The Los Angeles Times reported that one former resident even hugged Graziano at the ceremony, and they took communion together.
The history of the displacement of residents in Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop comes as news to some Dodgers fans, especially younger ones. It's hard for some to believe that a team that has built such a large Latino fan base plays on land that once belonged to so many Latino families.
Some fans, like Manny Trujio, 23, say they "know they basics of it." Others like Louie Montes, 29, say they know none of the history.
"It's easier to forgive if it wasn't members of your family that were being forcibly removed," Burgos said. "The reality is most of the Dodger fans we see at the ballpark today are much younger, and it might have been something that their grandparents had heard about and knew about."
Salazar-Porzio, for example, said she didn't know the story of Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop until she was in college. That history prompted her to learn more about the layers of the displacement, starting with the city's plan to build affordable housing.
"Some people understand that distinction," Salazar-Porzio said. "The Dodgers did have a role to play, but it wasn't like the Dodgers kicked out the Chavez Ravine residents."
Learning that history also prompted Salazar-Porzio to wrestle with how she viewed the team, having grown up going to Dodgers games, she said.
"It's very complicated," she said. "All of this happened, but also all this other stuff happened, too. I'm really proud of the memories that I have with my dad, with Fernando Valenzuela. That kind of personal connection is my layer of history that I choose to identify with."
Most of the former residents of Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop are now in their 90s. As they get older, Arechiga and Montalvo said their grandparents are still often reluctant to talk about that time of their lives.
Correcting their "painful histories," Montalvo said, serves as a motivation to work for reparations.
To reclaim the land and effectively push out the Dodgers could be next to impossible. But Arechiga said her family was hopeful.
"They also wonder, Is it possible? Is it obtainable?" Arechiga said. "We believe it is."
Photograph Dodger Stadium was built on land that once belonged to families in three communities. Encouraged by other reparations efforts in California, descendants say they see a chance for justice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEG OLIPHANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Aurora Vargas, known as Lola, was carried away by sheriff's deputies in 1959 after she refused to leave her home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOS ANGELES EXAMINER/USC LIBRARIES/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (D1); Dodgers fandom runs in families, uniting generations. It can be shown in ink, top, or Legos. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALLISON ZAUCHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; CARLOS GONZALEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Vincent Montalvo, top left, is the grandson of a resident who was displaced by the city of Los Angeles. Although Montalvo has not entered Dodger Stadium for decades, the team has a large Latino fan base. Above left, a Mexican-themed Julio Urías jersey. (D4); A mural of Fernando Valenzuela outside Dodger Stadium. "He began to make it OK for Mexicanos to root for the Dodgers," said Adrian Burgos, a professor who teaches about race, sports and society. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLOS GONZALEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4-D5); Melissa Arechiga with a photo of her aunt being evicted in 1959. In 2021, left, fans celebrated the home opener. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLOS GONZALEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALLISON ZAUCHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) This article appeared in print on page D1, D4, D5.

Subject: Hispanic Americans; Eminent domain; Evictions; Reparations; Professional baseball

Location: California; Los Angeles California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Major League Baseball; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/07/sports/baseball/baseball-dodgers-reparations.html

Title: The Echoes of Pain in Chavez Ravine:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 8, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810767890

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/echoes-pain-chavez-ravine/docview/2810767890/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Land Beneath This Stadium Once Was Theirs. They Want It Back.

Author: Jiménez, Jesus

Publication info: Jiménez, Jesus. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/land-beneath-this-stadium-once-was-theirs-they/docview/2810662226/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LOS ANGELES — Standing less than a mile from Dodger Stadium on a recent Saturday afternoon, Vincent Montalvo could hear the roar of the crowd inside the ballpark.
It was Jackie Robinson Day, and more than 50,000 fans were nestling into their seats for a matchup against the Chicago Cubs. But Montalvo had no plans to attend.
It has been more than 30 years since he has stepped inside Dodger Stadium. His father took him to the ballpark when he was a child in the 1980s during “Fernandomania,” the craze surrounding star Mexican pitcher Fernando Valenzuela.
But the seemingly harmless act of attending that game deepened a wound that has festered in the Montalvo family and the city’s Latino community. Reckoning with that hurt has been a challenge for the Dodgers as the team has tried to maintain a balance between acknowledging it and broadening the team’s widely Latino fan base.
Long before the Los Angeles Dodgers won their first World Series at Dodger Stadium in 1963 and Sandy Koufax tossed the team’s first perfect game in 1965, the land on which the ballpark was built was home to hundreds of families living in communities called Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop.
Those neighborhoods and their residents were displaced in the 1950s by the city of Los Angeles, citing plans to build affordable housing. But eventually the land was given to the Dodgers to build a ballpark after the team moved to the city from New York’s Brooklyn in the late ’50s. The area is now commonly called Chavez Ravine, a term that has become synonymous with Dodger Stadium.
Montalvo’s grandfather and grandmother were born and raised in Palo Verde. Even though Montalvo’s father didn’t know that before going to that game in the ’80s, Montalvo’s grandfather resented that they visited the ballpark that had replaced his neighborhood.
“We never went back,” Montalvo said.
The story of this displacement has been well documented in books, news articles and videos. But in recent years, descendants of marginalized communities in California have had success seeking reparations for land that was taken from them, in the form of money or the return of land. Spurred by that momentum, the descendants of the three Los Angeles communities see a chance to seek their own justice. The land on which Dodger Stadium was built, they say, should be returned to them.
Bought Out or Pushed Out
Montalvo’s grandfather has long been reluctant to talk about his life in Palo Verde. But over time, Montalvo has gathered bits of information about the community, including that many residents sustained themselves by growing their own food.
“It was kind of like their little oasis there,” Montalvo said.
But in the early 1950s, the city of Los Angeles began displacing the residents of Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop, through voluntary purchases and eminent domain, with plans to build a housing project in the area.
It was never built, and eventually, after the Dodgers moved to Los Angeles, the team acquired the deed to the land. A condition was that the team build a stadium with capacity for at least 50,000 people.
The process of displacing 300 families from the area was long and for many residents painful. While many sold their land to the city, others held out.
The last of the families were forcibly evicted by sheriff’s deputies in May 1959. One woman, Aurora Vargas, who was known as Lola, was infamously photographed being carried out of her home by deputies. An article in the Los Angeles Times on May 9, 1959, described the scene as a “long skirmish.” Vargas was kicking and screaming and children were “wailing hysterically,” the newspaper reported.
Several years later, Melissa Arechiga, 48, learned about the eviction from her mother, and that Vargas had been her Aunt Lola. Arechiga found it hard to believe.
“When she told me, it just sounded more like something out of a movie,” Arechiga said.
The Start of a Movement
Montalvo and Arechiga met in 2018 and founded Buried Under the Blue, a nonprofit organization that seeks to raise awareness about the history of the displacement of the residents of Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop.
As so-called land-back movements have gained momentum, Montalvo and Arechiga have been working to define what reparations mean for them and how to get them.
“We know we’re going uphill,” Montalvo said. “But we also know this: There’s a time right now in politics, both up and down the state, about reparations.”
Those seeking reparations in California have been encouraged by the story of Bruce’s Beach, a property that was bought by a Black couple, Charles and Willa Bruce, in 1912 in what would become the city of Manhattan Beach. The land was taken from the Bruces in 1924 when city officials condemned it through eminent domain, claiming to need it for a public park.
Last year, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors voted to transfer ownership of the land to the great-grandsons and great-great-grandsons of Charles and Willa Bruce. They sold the land back to the county for $20 million.
Buried Under the Blue and the descendants of those who were displaced have political support, including from Eunisses Hernandez, a member of the Los Angeles City Council who said she stands with them.
“Oftentimes we are in these situations because companies, corporations, people with a lot of money, have felt that other communities were disposable,” Hernandez said. “We are still confronted with moments like that even today, and so we have to demand that these corporations, these companies, give back to the communities that they have taken from.”
But Hernandez said she would like to see a concrete plan from organizers on what reparations would look like before moving forward.
Leaders of Buried Under the Blue have also met with the descendants of Indigenous tribes that once lived in the Los Angeles Basin. In a true land-back effort, they say, land should be returned to the Indigenous groups who were the first occupants.
“There can’t be true land-back without the Indigenous people first,” Arechiga said.
Even if the land were returned to the descendants of the Indigenous tribes, Montalvo said, homeowners and renters who were displaced would still deserve financial reparations for investing in the community.
Buried Under the Blue has yet to determine what it would do with the land if it were ever returned, and it’s unclear if that will ever happen or how long it would take.
At Dodger Stadium
Chavez Ravine is home to one of the most iconic ballparks in baseball, tucked between the San Gabriel Mountains and downtown Los Angeles. Dodger Stadium hosts dozens of games a year as well as concerts and other events. One of the wealthiest teams in Major League Baseball plays there.
For the Dodgers to be effectively forced out may seem unimaginable to some.
“It’s going to take a lot,” Hernandez said. “They’re not going against just a small company. This is a brand and a company that’s known throughout the country and the world, and so I just think folks need to organize and get as much people, power and support to support the demands that they have.”
Walking into Dodger Stadium these days, fans are almost instantly met with the sound of Spanish in several forms.
There are fans speaking Spanish, others Spanglish. Julio Urías, a Dodgers pitcher from Mexico, takes the field to “Soy Sinaloense” — Spanish for “I’m Sinaloan” — by Gerardo Ortiz.
Throughout Dodger Stadium, fans sport “Los Dodgers” jerseys and shirts, and restrooms and other parts of the ballpark are labeled in English and Spanish.
The Dodgers built their Latino fan base, one of the largest in MLB, partly through their long history of fielding Latino players, including Valenzuela and Adrián González.
Creating that Latino support, however, took time after the displacement of so many Mexican American families in the late 1950s.
Adrian Burgos, a University of Illinois professor who teaches about race, sports and society, said pushing out local residents “set up a very bad relationship between the Mexican American community and the Dodgers.”
“It really doesn’t change much till Fernando,” Burgos said, referring to Valenzuela. “He began to make it OK for Mexicanos to root for the Dodgers.”
Margaret Salazar-Porzio, a National Museum of American History curator who has worked on initiatives such as “Latinos and Baseball: In the Barrios and the Big Leagues,” said Valenzuela’s arrival with the Dodgers was a sort of “symbolic reconciliation with many Latinos in LA at that time.”
“He kind of looks like your uncle or your brother,” Salazar-Porzio said. “Fernando Valenzuela gave Mexican Angelenos a reason to celebrate and to show up to the games.”
The Dodgers also brought in the first full-time Spanish-language broadcast in MLB under announcer René Cárdenas, who was joined by Jaime Jarrín.
“He became really quickly one of the most recognizable voices in LA Latino households,” Salazar-Porzio said of Jarrín. “He brought the Dodgers into our homes.”
‘Painful Histories’
Since the 1980s, the Dodgers have continued to grow their Latino fan base with help from players such as Urías, who was on the mound for the final out of the team’s 2020 World Series win.
But the team, which did not comment for this article, has still wrestled with how to make amends with displaced residents and their descendants.
In 2000, team officials, including former President Bob Graziano, joined former residents and their families for a ceremony at a church. The Los Angeles Times reported that one former resident even hugged Graziano at the ceremony, and they took Communion together.
The history of the displacement of residents in Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop comes as news to some Dodgers fans, especially younger ones. It’s hard for some to believe that a team that has built such a large Latino fan base plays on land that once belonged to so many Latino families.
Some fans, including Manny Trujio, 23, say they “know they basics of it.” Others, including Louie Montes, 29, say they know none of the history.
“It’s easier to forgive if it wasn’t members of your family that were being forcibly removed,” Burgos said. “The reality is most of the Dodger fans we see at the ballpark today are much younger, and it might have been something that their grandparents had heard about and knew about.”
Salazar-Porzio, for example, said she didn’t know the story of Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop until she was in college. That history prompted her to learn more about the layers of the displacement, starting with the city’s plan to build affordable housing.
“Some people understand that distinction,” Salazar-Porzio said. “The Dodgers did have a role to play, but it wasn’t like the Dodgers kicked out the Chavez Ravine residents.”
Learning that history also prompted Salazar-Porzio to wrestle with how she viewed the team, having grown up going to Dodgers games, she said.
“It’s very complicated,” she said. “All of this happened, but also all this other stuff happened, too. I’m really proud of the memories that I have with my dad, with Fernando Valenzuela. That kind of personal connection is my layer of history that I choose to identify with.”
Most of the former residents of Palo Verde, La Loma and Bishop are in their 90s. As they get older, Arechiga and Montalvo said their grandparents are still often reluctant to talk about that time of their lives.
Correcting their “painful histories,” Montalvo said, serves as a motivation to work for reparations.
To reclaim the land and effectively push out the Dodgers could be next to impossible. But Arechiga said her family was hopeful.
“They also wonder, ‘Is it possible? Is it obtainable?’” Arechiga said. “We believe it is.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Hispanic Americans; Eminent domain; Evictions; Reparations; Professional baseball

Location: California; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Gentrification; National Museum Of American History; Sports; Evictions; California; San Gabriel Mountains; Museums; Manhattan Beach (Calif); Koufax, Sandy; Ortiz, Gerardo (Singer); World Series; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Los Angeles County (Calif); Cardenas, Rene; Illinois; Indigenous People; Jarrin, Jaime; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Women And Girls; Chicago Cubs; Grandparents; Los Angeles (Calif); Eminent Domain; Valenzuela, Fernando; Hispanic Americans; Baseball; Major League Baseball; Brooklyn Dodgers; Newspapers; Nineteen Hundred Fifties; Affordable Housing; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Los Angeles Dodgers; Mexico; Stadiums And Arenas; Land Use Policies; Athletics And Sports; Dodger Stadium; Robinson, Jackie; Los Angeles Times; Urban Areas; Mexican Americans; Fans (Persons); Age, Chronological

Title: The Land Beneath This Stadium Once Was Theirs. They Want It Back.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-07T22:44:02Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810662226

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/land-beneath-this-stadium-once-was-theirs-they/docview/2810662226/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Crowning Is Coming. Among Britons, Apathy Reigns.: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Landler, Mark

Publication info: Landler, Mark. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/crowning-is-coming-among-britons-apathy-reigns/docview/2807822608/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Images of the new king may be blanketing Britain, but many in the country are more focused on navigating a cost-of-living crisis than celebrating a dysfunctional royal family.
When King Charles III is crowned on Saturday, he will undergo a ritual so rare in modern British history that it last occurred 70 years ago, roughly the wait between sightings of Halley's comet. And yet the coronation has yet to capture the imagination of a Britain preoccupied by other concerns.
Images of the new king -- in chocolate, in Legos and in wax -- are popping up in bakeries, toy stores and at Madame Tussauds wax museum. Ancient relics of coronation, like the Scottish stone of destiny, are being delivered to Westminster Abbey for the ceremony. Charles and his queen consort, Camilla, are rehearsing every step of the service in a specially staged room at Buckingham Palace.
But in a recent poll of 3,070 adults in Britain by the market research firm YouGov, 64 percent of respondents said they had little or no interest in the coronation. Only a third said they were strongly or fairly interested in it. Among those aged 18 to 24, the number voicing little or no interest rose to 75 percent.
"Love for the royal family has sort of declined," said Jason Abdalla, 24, an information technology worker outside a pub last Friday in the exclusive Mayfair neighborhood of London. "It feels like appreciating the monarchy is an older, more mature thing. I mean, my parents are into it. They love the royal family. It's 'take it or leave it,' for me."
There are other, less generational explanations for the lack of excitement, like the rainy spring weather, which may loosen its grip in time for the May 6 ceremony, and Britain's economic doldrums, which have focused public attention on the cost of bread rather than what cynics might label bread-and-circuses.
Then, too, there is the contrast between King Charles and his mother, Queen Elizabeth II. Her coronation in 1953 introduced a poised young monarch who was thrust on the throne by the death of her father, King George VI, and became a beloved icon. At 74, Charles is a familiar figure, one whose foibles have been dissected in the news media for decades and who still presides over a dysfunctional family.
"He is not a romantic figure like she was," said Ed Owens, a historian who has written about the interplay between the monarchy and the news media. "He is a complex human personality whose private life we know a great deal more about than we did with the queen in 1953."
Whereas the queen's coronation symbolized a new start for the country and the royal family, Mr. Owens said, Charles's coronation comes after a period of family feuds that has left the House of Windsor divided and diminished.
"He's inheriting a crown that has been shaken by events over the last five years, and tarnished by those events as well," Mr. Owens said.
Last week, the king's younger son, Prince Harry, was behind yet another airing of the family laundry. In a filing in his lawsuit against Rupert Murdoch's British newspaper group for hacking the prince's cellphone, Harry disclosed that his older brother, Prince William, had received a "huge sum of money" to settle phone-hacking charges against the company, News Group Newspapers.
Harry said he had been discouraged from pursuing his own litigation because of a secret deal between the palace and News Group. The palace, eager to rehabilitate the reputation of Charles and Camilla after the breakup of his marriage to Princess Diana, was determined to keep the favor of Mr. Murdoch's tabloids.
The timing of these revelations -- however unwitting on Harry's part, given that he does not dictate the schedule of legal cases -- is likely to dash any lingering hopes that Harry will repair a yearslong rift with his brother and father when he attends the coronation, according to royal watchers.
Whether Harry would show up at all was a mystery, but one addressed this past month with the announcement that he would, but that his wife, Meghan, and their two children, Archie and Lilibet, would stay at their home in Montecito, Calif. Archie's fourth birthday is on Saturday, which some said gave Meghan a ready excuse.
The guest list, however, has drawn other criticism. The Daily Mail singled out a few under the headline "Invitations to Put You Off Your Coronation Quiche," referring to the occasion's official dish, made with spinach, broad beans and fresh tarragon.
Among the foreign dignitaries planning to attend is Han Zheng, the vice president of China, whom China hawks in Britain condemn as one of the masterminds of the 2019 anti-democracy crackdown in Hong Kong, a former British colony. Mr. Han is an ally of President Xi Jinping's and would be his representative.
Also on the list is Michelle O'Neill, the leader of the Irish nationalist party, Sinn Féin, in Northern Ireland. The Mail noted that Ms. O'Neill's party had historical links to the Irish Republican Army, which assassinated Lord Louis Mountbatten, an uncle of the queen's husband, Prince Philip, in 1979.
Sinn Féin has expressed regret for the killing of Mountbatten, and Ms. O'Neill, in accepting the palace's invitation, said the world had changed. "I am an Irish Republican," she posted on Twitter. "I also recognise there are many people on our island for whom the coronation is a hugely important occasion."
President Biden has declined an invitation, instead sending his wife, Jill, who plans to bring with their 23-year-old granddaughter, Finnegan. That has caused anxiety among American diplomats in London, who worry that the royal family and the British government will take umbrage because the invitations are for V.I.P.'s.
Mr. Biden just completed a fleeting visit to Northern Ireland to mark the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement, which he followed with a longer tour of the Republic of Ireland, where he celebrated his Irish American roots. British officials have expressed no complaints -- Dwight D. Eisenhower skipped Elizabeth's coronation, after all -- and the king has invited Mr. Biden for a state visit to Britain later this year.
Not everyone is approaching the coronation with a shrug. Janet Waterston, 61, who was visiting London from her home in Henley-on-Thames, said she expected a "jubilant atmosphere," not least because the government had given the country a day off on Monday after the ceremony.
Still, royal experts said it was inevitable that many Britons would view the coronation with a more gimlet eye this time around.
"In 1953, Britain was a very deferential society," said Vernon Bogdanor, an authority on the constitutional monarchy at Kings College London. "Now, it's a competitive society, based on people who've earned their position through achievement. Therefore, the monarchy is bound to attract more skepticism."
Buckingham Palace is sensitive to the changing attitudes. It has cut back the procession route between the palace and Westminster Abbey from that taken by Elizabeth in 1953. That has the benefit of sparing central London from gridlock while also ensuring that the crowds lining the streets do not look sparse.
The ceremony itself has also been modified to account for a more diverse ecumenical country. Though many of its rituals still date back more than 1,000 years, the archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev. Justin Welby, who will preside over the service, has added several innovations to make it more inclusive.
Leaders of non-Christian faiths will present Charles with items of regalia that are not Christian in nature. The archbishop will invite millions of people from across the nation and Commonwealth to pay homage to the king, a rite that was reserved for the hereditary aristocracy at Elizabeth's coronation. And before he leaves Westminster Abbey, Charles will pause for a greeting from a group of non-Christian religious leaders.
For some expatriates living in Britain, the "soft power" of the monarchy cannot be underestimated. But appealing to a younger, more diverse population is a longer-term project than a single ceremony.
"I think that they have a strong brand, as a monarchy, and if they translate that into value to British society, then it'll be fine," said Marta Sauri Lopez, 36, a native of Spain who works for a private equity firm in London. "Probably the Commonwealth has a lot to say there," she continued. "So, if the monarchy does manage to maintain the Commonwealth as unified, that's a massive bonus."
As for the coronation itself, however, Ms. Sauri Lopez, like many Britons, viewed it mostly as a welcome holiday. "I don't mind," she said, "but I also don't care."
Saskia Solomon contributed reporting.
Saskia Solomon contributed reporting.
Photograph King Charles III and the queen consort, Camilla, at a ceremony on Thursday at Buckingham Palace. In a poll, 64 percent said they had little or no interest in his coronation next Saturday. (POOL PHOTO BY STEFAN ROUSSEAU); Images of the new king, including a figure made of 73,412 Lego bricks, left, have been popping up in London. Prince Harry, above, plans to attend the coronation despite a rift with his father and brother. Protesters, below, were among a crowd awaiting Charles and Camilla on a visit to Liverpool on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAJA SMIEJKOWSKA/REUTERS; JUSTIN TALLIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; JON SUPER) This article appeared in print on page A4.

Subject: Expatriates; Rites & ceremonies; News media; Queens; Castles & palaces; Litigation

Location: China; Northern Ireland; United Kingdom--UK

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/30/world/europe/charles-coronation-mood.html

Title: A Crowning Is Coming. Among Britons, Apathy Reigns.:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 1, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2807822608

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/crowning-is-coming-among-britons-apathy-reigns/docview/2807822608/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Museum Reborn: [SpecialSections]

Author: Sheets, Hilarie M

Publication info: Sheets, Hilarie M. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/museum-reborn/docview/2807592747/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With a renowned collection of modern and contemporary art, the Buffalo AKG Art Museum has taken local concerns to heart in a $ 230 million transformation.
This article is part of our Museums special section about how art institutions are reaching out to new artists and attracting new audiences.
BUFFALO -- After three and a half years and $ 230 million, a transformed museum here is about to open amid hopes that it will meet the expectations of a population far different from the one that greeted the original more than 160 years ago.
Founded in 1862 by artists and so-called "Buffalo boosters," the institution known as the Albright-Knox Art Gallery has been renamed the Buffalo AKG Art Museum and expanded and renovated by Shohei Shigematsu of the architectural firm OMA. It plans to welcome the public beginning June 12.
Since receiving its first painting in 1863, a landscape by the Hudson River painter Albert Bierstadt donated by the artist, the institution has been early to acquire works by Henry Moore, Joan Miró, Mark Rothko, Frida Kahlo, Willem de Kooning, Marisol, Andy Warhol and Mark Bradford, among others, amassing a modern and contemporary collection of international renown.
But many Buffalo residents, while proud of the museum's reputation, also "felt it was an elitist institution and not their place," said Janne Sirén, the museum's director. He heard this during two years of extensive town hall meetings, conducted with his staff and with Mr. Shigematsu, to solicit input on what the community wanted in the expanded museum.
"The city feels very good about how the museum has approached this," said Buffalo's mayor, Byron Brown, adding that the museum's leadership was intentional in "making sure that all segments of our diverse population were heard and reflected in the new construction."
The result is a far more accessible campus. The new gallery building with an all-glass facade, and changes to the existing 1905 neoclassical building by E.B. Green and the 1962 modernist addition by Gordon Bunshaft, all aim to break down barriers between the interior and exterior.
While abutting the edge of Delaware Park, designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, "the existing complex was so inward-looking," said Mr. Shigematsu. He positioned his transparent contemporary building on the museum's former parking area -- now underground -- and created a new lawn in front as a welcome gesture.
"Our scheme really reinstates the idea that this museum is in the park," said Mr. Shigematsu, who has connected his new structure to one end of the original building with a serpentine glass bridge that floats amid oak trees and offers shifting views of the campus, park and city.
In 1962, Mr. Bunshaft bridged his black-glass addition at the other end of the grand columned 1905 building with sleek white marble walls, creating an open-air interior sculpture court between the two structures, with only a single entrance to the whole museum at this midpoint.
This 6,000-square-foot courtyard was "a wonderful thought," said Mr. Sirén, but unusable for months each year in a city regularly hammered by snowstorms. He commissioned Olafur Eliasson and Sebastian Behmann to create an artwork that would also serve functionally as a roof and transform the space into the town square of the campus.
Their canopy of interlocking glass and mirror triangles called "Common Sky," rising from an off-center funnel and modeled on the gentle swell of a snowdrift, yields animated views of the architecture and nature outside and a dramatic play of light and shadow inside. During rain and snow, the funnel collects the elements, with an elaborate drainage system at the bottom.
"I see the work that Sebastian and I did in the bigger context of the museum essentially turning itself inside out to seem more approachable and not a fortress," Mr. Eliasson said.
With a new entrance directly opposite the 1962 front door, visitors can pass through "Common Sky" on their way to the park or stay for music, performances and other programming being developed for the space in collaboration with a community advisory council.
Admission is free to "Common Sky" and to the entire 1962 building, equipped with five new studio classrooms, a 2,000-square-foot gallery and its original auditorium.
Bordering one side of the town square is the new "Creative Commons" area, with interactive stations for creative play that have been designed with guidance from the Lego Foundation, in its first partnership with an art museum.
"It's an opportunity to try to redefine what a museum can be and see it as a playful experience," said Charlie Garling, the museum's director of learning and creativity.
For the wall spanning the new restaurant, Cornelia, on the other side of the town square, the artist Firelei Báez has made a 30-foot mosaic envisioning an Afrofuturist myth about women thrown overboard in the Middle Passage, the sea leg of the slave trade, flourishing in an underwater culture.
Another site-specific commission is by Miriam Bäckström, who has turned a subterranean space connecting the parking lot with the stairwell of the new building into something celestial. Her woven tapestry with an abstraction of concentric circles, embedded into the curvature of the architecture, provides an illusion of the infinite.
Given the museum's history with living artists, "it would have been a missed opportunity if we didn't truly integrate some contemporary voices into the space itself," said the chief curator, Cathleen Chaffee. "We want people the minute they arrive to feel that they're stepping into an artwork and not have them wait 10 minutes until they check their coat and get their ticket," she said.
Inside the exhibition galleries, now double the space at 50,000 square feet, some 400 works from the collection are displayed chronologically, starting in the neoclassical building (with a new roof and warm red oak replacing cracked marble flooring) and wending through the three floors of the new building (named for the financier Jeffrey E. Gundlach, who contributed $ 65 million to the capital campaign).
Four galleries spotlight the museum's historical relationship with the Abstract Expressionist painter Clyfford Still, displaying all 33 towering canvases by him in the collection. An adjacent double-height gallery shows contemporary artists who have an affinity with Still, including Joe Bradley, Sterling Ruby, Stanley Whitney and Harold Ancart.
Another highlight is an immersive multichannel video installation by Lap-See Lam, a shadow play inspired by her family's Chinese restaurant in Sweden and the artist's U.S. museum debut.
Even people just driving by the campus can see works by Alexander Calder, Robert Irwin, Ursula von Rydingsvard and Lawrence Weiner, among others, clearly visible through the glass facade on the second-floor sculpture terrace, encircling the internal cube of galleries in the contemporary building. "The Gundlach building looks the way it does because the community wanted it," Mr. Sirén said, emphasizing its porosity.
"I don't think we could have raised this money," Mr. Sirén added, "if we hadn't engaged our community and been authentic about it."
Photograph A serpentine glass bridge, top, connecting buildings at the Buffalo AKG Art Museum. Above, "Common Sky," a canopy of glass and mirror triangles, covers the museum's 6,000-square-foot courtyard. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MALIK RAINEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page F16.

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Architecture; Artists

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/27/arts/design/buffalo-art-museum.html

Title: A Museum Reborn:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 30, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New Y ork, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2807592747

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/museum-reborn/docview/2807592747/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Making 500,000 Ants Feel Right at Home: [Science Desk]

Author: Anthes, Emily; Heisler, Todd

Publication info: Anthes, Emily; Heisler, Todd. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-500-000-ants-feel-right-at-home/docview/2805338995/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When the American Museum of Natural History's new insectarium opens on May 4, a half-million leafcutter ants will share the title of star attraction.
The ants are biological marvels, living in enormous colonies that function as a single superorganism. They are sophisticated farmers, collecting leaves that they use to nurture sprawling fungal gardens, which provide food for the colony.
Creating the new leafcutter exhibit was a six-year journey that took the museum's team -- and the ants -- from a farm in Trinidad, where the tangerine-size colony was collected, to a lab in Oregon, where it grew large enough to fill a bathtub, and then on a six-day drive across the country in a U-Haul van.
And that wasn't even the hard part. The ants, which moved into their museum habitat in January, were slow to adjust to their new home, failing to harvest enough leaves to sustain their fungal gardens.
"We've had a few ups and downs," said Hazel Davies, the museum's director of living exhibits. "Some problem-solving, as we expected, because it's a pretty unique exhibit."
Here's how the museum eventually helped the ants find their way.
To put the ants' agriculture on display, the museum designed a sprawling, open exhibit made from lab-tested, "ant-approved" materials, from braided stainless steel to old-fashioned Legos. "The ants got to pick a lot of stuff," said Ryan Garrett, a self-described "ant wrangler" and founder of Leaf House Scientific who collected the ant colony and served as a consultant on the habitat.
The design had the ants tending to their fungal gardens in glass orbs and then traveling an ambitious route to collect their leaves, crossing a transparent skybridge upside-down and clambering over aluminum poles.
The team stocked the foraging area with blackberry bramble and filled the surrounding moat with water to help keep the ants contained.
Then, they loaded the ant-filled orbs, which had been temporarily plugged with balls of Play-Doh, into the exhibit. (A hand-held vacuum was deployed to collect ants that had ventured out of the orbs to forage, sucking the insects up into "a friendly tornado," Mr. Garrett said.)
They unplugged the orbs and waited for the ants to find their way, a process they expected to take at least several days.
It took weeks. Some ants quickly made their way up to the skybridge and even down to the ant highway leading toward the foraging area, but there they seemed to stall. "We knew it was a big ask," Ms. Davies said. "It's like you heading downtown to look for groceries, but not being told where to go."
The team needed just a small subset of ants to blaze the path; when the first ants returned from the foraging area, they would leave a pheromone trail that their sisters could follow. The museum began coaxing the ants forward by laying down a trail of apples and leaves.
But soon another problem emerged: The gallery, which was still under construction, was too dry for the tropical ants. So a humidifier was installed behind the exhibit, funneling moisture into the display case.
The ants' path was simplified, a rope strung across the skybridge so the ants would no longer have to cross it upside-down. Another shortcut allowed the ants to bypass some of the aluminum poles.
By mid-April, lines of ants had begun parading leaves back to their orbs. "It felt like the ants were celebrating," Mr. Garrett said.
There is more work to do. The ants have not really taken to the braided metal that seemed so promising in the lab, and they keep falling into the moat. Mr. Garrett recently fashioned a temporary "ant filter" from blackberry branches to help the insects climb out.
But the team has now removed the big shortcuts, nudging the ants along more challenging paths. Just days ago, the ants finally completed the entire route and even began winding their way across an elevated maze detour.
"I know everyone wanted the ants to easily walk straight to the foraging jungle, but I think this process of them slowly figuring out their way is really beautiful," Mr. Garrett said. "Day by day we watch them learn."
Photograph The American Museum of Natural History's gallery was at first too dry for tropical ants. So a humidifier was installed behind the exhibit, funneling moisture, seen inside the fungal garden above, into the display case.; The museum's design had the ants tending to their fungal gardens in glass orbs, left, and then traveling an ambitious route that included a challenging elevated maze, below, to collect their leaves. "It's like you heading downtown to look for groceries, but not being told where to go," said Hazel Davies, far left, with Ryan Garrett.; The ants were expected to settle in within days, but it took weeks. So the team installed shortcuts, above and right, including electrical conduit, which allowed the ants to avoid traveling upside down on their metal ceiling.; The ants arrived in their new home in January, and by the middle of this month they had begun parading leaves back to their orbs. "This process of them slowly figuring out their way is really beautiful," Mr. Garrett said. "Day by day we watch them learn." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D8.

Subject: Aluminum; Museum exhibits; Museums; Leaves

Company / organization: Name: American Museum of Natural History; NAICS: 712110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/24/science/leafcutter-ants-museum-insectarium.html

Title: Making 500,000 Ants Feel Right at Home:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 25, 2023

column: How To

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805338995

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-500-000-ants-feel-right-at-home/docview/2805338995/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside the Scramble to Make a Half-Million Ants Feel at Home

Author: Anthes, Emily; Heisler, Todd

Publication info: Anthes, Emily; Heisler, Todd. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-scramble-make-half-million-ants-feel-at/docview/2805271761/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
When the American Museum of Natural History’s new insectarium opens on May 4, a half-million leafcutter ants will share the title of star attraction.
The ants are biological marvels, living in enormous colonies that function as a single superorganism. They are sophisticated farmers, collecting leaves that they use to nurture sprawling fungal gardens, which provide food for the colony.
Creating the new leafcutter exhibit was a six-year journey that took the museum’s team — and the ants — from a farm in Trinidad, where the tangerine-size colony was collected, to a lab in Oregon, where it grew large enough to fill a bathtub, and then on a six-day drive across the country in a U-Haul van.
And that wasn’t even the hard part. The ants, which moved into their museum habitat in January, were slow to adjust to their new home, failing to harvest enough leaves to sustain their fungal gardens.
“We’ve had a few ups and downs,” said Hazel Davies, the museum’s director of living exhibits. “Some problem-solving, as we expected, because it’s a pretty unique exhibit.”
Here’s how the museum eventually helped the ants find their way.
To put the ants’ agriculture on display, the museum designed a sprawling, open exhibit made from lab-tested, “ant-approved” materials, from braided stainless steel to old-fashioned Legos. “The ants got to pick a lot of stuff,” said Ryan Garrett, a self-described “ant wrangler” and founder of Leaf House Scientific who collected the ant colony and served as a consultant on the habitat.
The design had the ants tending to their fungal gardens in glass orbs and then traveling an ambitious route to collect their leaves, crossing a transparent skybridge upside-down and clambering over aluminum poles.
The team stocked the foraging area with blackberry bramble and filled the surrounding moat with water to help keep the ants contained.
Then, they loaded the ant-filled orbs, which had been temporarily plugged with balls of Play-Doh, into the exhibit. (A hand-held vacuum was deployed to collect ants that had ventured out of the orbs to forage, sucking the insects up into “a friendly tornado,” Garrett said.)
They unplugged the orbs and waited for the ants to find their way, a process they expected to take at least several days.
It took weeks. Some ants quickly made their way up to the skybridge and even down to the ant highway leading toward the foraging area, but there they seemed to stall. “We knew it was a big ask,” Davies said. “It’s like you heading downtown to look for groceries, but not being told where to go.”
The team needed just a small subset of ants to blaze the path; when the first ants returned from the foraging area, they would leave a pheromone trail that their sisters could follow. The museum began coaxing the ants forward by laying down a trail of apples and leaves.
But soon another problem emerged: The gallery, which was still under construction, was too dry for the tropical ants. So a humidifier was installed behind the exhibit, funneling moisture into the display case.
The ants’ path was simplified, a rope strung across the skybridge so the ants would no longer have to cross it upside-down. Another shortcut allowed the ants to bypass some of the aluminum poles.
By mid-April, lines of ants had begun parading leaves back to their orbs. “It felt like the ants were celebrating,” Garrett said.
There is more work to do. The ants have not really taken to the braided metal that seemed so promising in the lab, and they keep falling into the moat. Garrett recently fashioned a temporary “ant filter” from blackberry branches to help the insects climb out.
But the team has now removed the big shortcuts, nudging the ants along more challenging paths. Just days ago, the ants finally completed the entire route and even began winding their way across an elevated maze detour.
“I know everyone wanted the ants to easily walk straight to the foraging jungle, but I think this process of them slowly figuring out their way is really beautiful,” Garrett said. “Day by day we watch them learn.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Aluminum; Natural history; Food; Foraging behavior; Museum exhibits; Museums

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: American Museum of Natural History; NAICS: 712110

Identifier / keyword: Oregon; U Haul International; Trinidad And Tobago; Fruit; Humidifiers; Fungi; Steel And Iron; Collectors And Collections; United States; Agriculture And Farming; Flowers And Plants; Museums; Insects; Ants

Title: Inside the Scramble to Make a Half-Million Ants Feel at Home

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-24T23:39:10Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805271761

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-scramble-make-half-million-ants-feel-at/docview/2805271761/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

When the Office Itself Makes a Commute: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Mckeough, Tim

Publication info: Mckeough, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-office-itself-makes-commute/docview/2804560903/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Working with the architect Tom Kundig, a creative director had a crazy idea: Wouldn't it be cool if you could put your work space on a railroad track?
When it's time for Lou Maxon to commute to work, he never has to worry about missing his train. Why? His office is the train.
When Mr. Maxon steps inside and pulls a lever, the entire two-story structure pulls away from his house in Carnation, Wash., and rolls down a 110-foot-long track -- his own personal railroad.
"There's a detachment to literally leaving the house," said Mr. Maxon, 48, a creative director who has worked in branding and marketing for clients including Lexus, Microsoft and Lego, and who previously had a connected home office where he struggled with distractions.
Beyond the peace and quiet, the mobility of the building allows him to take in inspiring views. "There are different moments along the rail," he said. "If you take it halfway, that's where our fire pit is. If you take it all the way out, you move from being open to being really in the woods, where the light is just different."
Built from weathering steel and glass, with a metal door finished in bright yellow automotive paint, the studio measures just under 300 square feet. It was designed by Tom Kundig, the architect who founded the Seattle-based firm Olson Kundig. Known for its buildings with moving parts -- from hand-cranked glass walls to camping huts mounted on enormous casters -- the firm actually has a staff member with the job title of gizmologist: Phil Turner, who specializes in making some of Mr. Kundig's more audacious ideas reality.
But even a studio railroad initially seemed like the stuff of dreams. "I just said, offhand, 'Wouldn't it be cool if you could just take that office, that studio, and put it on tracks,"' recalled Mr. Kundig, describing the meeting where he listened to Mr. Maxon explain his desire for a home office that could provide isolation. "It was a joke."
But the more they batted the idea around, the more appealing it seemed -- and the more daunting. "It's a really simple idea, but requires all sorts of craziness to get there," Mr. Kundig said. "It's one thing to draw it, but it's another thing to deliver it."
In other words, he said, "I didn't know how to pull something like this off."
Mr. Maxon first met Mr. Kundig in 2008, shortly after he and his wife, Kim Maxon, 52, bought their 21.5-acre lot outside Seattle for around $ 328,000, with the idea of building a modernist home they could share with their children, Henry, now 23, Jack, 20, and Charlie, 16. Ms. Maxon gave her husband a book about Mr. Kundig's work as a Christmas gift and, flipping through its pages, they decided he was the architect for the job.
The process of designing and building the house took longer than they expected because of challenges with the steep site and the intricacies of obtaining a construction loan following the financial crisis. When the house was finally completed in 2016, Mr. Maxon dove head first into the design and construction of his rolling studio.
Naturally curious and keen to prove that the idea could be realized, Mr. Maxon decided he wouldn't just be the conductor of the finished structure -- he would also be the general contractor and personally work through the details, find the necessary materials and parts, and orchestrate the construction.
"Between 2016 and 2018, it was a lot of research," he said. "I approached the studio like I would any project." He read about railroads that used to run through the area, befriended workers at a nearby rail yard and spent vacations riding the rails.
"I went crazy for trains," he said. "I found myself, on a Sunday afternoon, at a train show. We took the Empire Builder, which was the original Great Northern, from Seattle to Chicago and back. I went on a trip to Japan with my son, and we went on trains."
To build his own railroad, Mr. Maxon sourced reclaimed rails from Harmer Steel that were once used by the Great Northern Railway. To ensure that the rails remained flat and straight, excavators dug deep into the earth along the desired route and filled the void with 27 dump-truck loads of stone track ballast.
To construct the studio building, Mr. Maxon worked with Alpine Welding and Equipment, a frequent Olson Kundig collaborator.
Such an unconventional project was "tantalizing to people like us," said Tim Odell, the owner of the company, who not only did the steelwork but also helped Mr. Maxon assemble the systems that would make the studio move, working with his employee Jesse Thomson. "When you start talking about a project where we can do something that's kinetic, we get really excited."
Alpine prefabricated most of the structure in sections before craning and connecting the pieces on the rails. Inside, the studio is finished in more steel, plywood and exposed electrical conduit. The first floor has a desk and serves as Mr. Maxon's primary work space. The second floor, reached by a ladder, is his library.
The 35,000-pound structure sits on custom-made wheels emblazoned with Mr. Maxon's professional logo and is powered by an electric engine connected to a retracting wire hidden behind one of the rails. For the controls, Mr. Maxon found a vintage General Motors Electro-Motive Division control panel from South Korea on eBay, after one of his rail yard friends told him what to look for.
One of the levers on the control panel sets the direction and another adjusts the throttle, but there was one lever left over, Mr. Maxon said: "We didn't need the dynamic brake function."
Soon, however, he realized that it would be difficult to climb up to his library while carrying books or a laptop. So Mr. Odell and Mr. Thomson devised a dumbwaiter powered by a small conveyer-belt motor, which they installed beside the ladder and wired to that extra lever.
The rolling building was completed in November 2022, at a total cost of about $ 375,000, including the structure and the railroad.
The first time Ms. Maxon saw the studio move, she could barely believe her eyes. "I'm not the visionary in the family -- that's Lou. So I was a little apprehensive before it got built, because I couldn't picture it," she said. "But the first time they ran it down the tracks, I was just flabbergasted and in awe."
Although Mr. Maxon has finished building his personal railroad, his new passion seems to have stuck. This summer, he said, "we fly to London to see our son, but then we're taking the train up to Edinburgh." Next year, he and Ms. Maxon are planning a similar train trip in Japan. Professionally, he has also started working on a few railway museum projects.
"I'm just part of the railroad community now," he said, noting that he has filled his studio with related memorabilia, including a model train, a vintage first-aid kit and a Great Northern Railway sign. "In addition to being a studio, it's a bit of a mini moving monument to the railroads."
Living Small is a biweekly column exploring what it takes to lead a simpler, more sustainable or more compact life.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph Lou Maxon's studio in Carnation, Wash., includes an aerial view of the 110-foot-long track, below center left. "If you take it all the way out, you move from being open to being really in the woods, where the light is just different," he said. Mr. Maxon found a vintage train-control panel on eBay and modified it to control his studio, bottom right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON LEITZ) This article appeared in print on page RE7.

Subject: Railroads; Trains; Architects

Business indexing term: Subject: Architects

Location: Japan

Company / organization: Name: Great Northern Railway; NAICS: 482111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/20/realestate/home-office-train-washington.html

Title: When the Office Itself Makes a Commute:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 23, 2023

column: Living Small

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804560903

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-office-itself-makes-commute/docview/2804560903/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Braver New World: [Review]

Author: Poniewozik, James

Publication info: Poniewozik, James. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/braver-new-world/docview/2803171113/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A screwball thriller about a nun's fight against artificial intelligence proves that making a messy, big-swinging jumble of a story still takes the work of humans.
If you're worried about artificial intelligence replacing humans, Peacock's "Mrs. Davis," despite its comic-dystopian premise, should reassure you. For better or worse, an A.I. could not come up with this. I know because I asked.
Specifically, I asked ChatGPT to whip up a synopsis for an eight-episode, mystery-box series about a nun who becomes an adversary to a powerful A.I. network. What I got was an industry-standard series arc: The nun (whom ChatGPT named "Sister Grace" -- a little on-the-nose there, writer-bot!) teams up with hackers and conspiracy theorists, makes a sacrifice to save the world and must come to terms with the consequences.
"Mrs. Davis," whose first four episodes land Thursday, is more than that -- way more, too much more. It's got swashbuckling nuns; rogue magicians; the pope (and certain higher-ranking religious figures); a "Hands on a Hardbody" contest involving a giant model of Excalibur; a secret society of bankers; a plan that requires getting a whale to swallow a human being; a falafel restaurant in another dimension; and an island castaway named Schrodinger who, of course, has a cat.
Sorry, Bing. To make this kind of zany, ambitious, intermittently coherent jumble still, for now, requires the human brain.
The pilot introduces Simone (Betty Gilpin), a sister in a remote Nevada convent who has a sideline exposing dishonest magicians. As with many details here, her fixation has an explanation that's both simple (issues with her parents, played by David Arquette and Elizabeth Marvel) and complicated (a crossbow and a vat of acid come into play). Besides leaving her time for her hobby, convent life lets her avoid the reach of an omniscient A.I. that humanity has embraced as a benefactor and constant companion.
The A.I. -- called "Mrs. Davis" in America, "Mum" in Britain, "Madonna" in Italy and so on -- has not given up on Simone. She (or "it," as Simone insists) persistently tries to reach the nun, through human "proxies" who hear her voice through earbuds. Simone, Mrs. Davis believes deep in her code, is the one person equipped to carry out a mission: to find and destroy the Holy Grail. Simone agrees, hoping the quest will be a means to Mrs. Davis's unplugging.
Simone's tango with the uber-bot reunites her with her ex-boyfriend Wylie (Jake McDorman), a failed rodeo cowboy who now heads a lavishly funded anti-A.I. resistance group. Any remaining spark between them is complicated by her vows -- as well as her intense relationship with Jay (Andy McQueen), an intimate confidant whom she visits on another spiritual plane.
"Mrs. Davis" is the creation of Tara Hernandez, a writer and producer on "The Big Bang Theory" and "Young Sheldon," and Damon Lindelof, known for obsessive TV Rubik's Cubes like "Lost" and "Watchmen." It may seem like an odd collaboration, but it makes sense as you watch. The hourlong episodes feel like sitcommy spins on the more loopy elements of Lindelof's "The Leftovers," with a dash of paranoid satire and '60s spy spoof. (Simone is pursued by a crew of German-accented baddies who seem like they should be led by Arte Johnson.)
In all, there are at least three shows fighting for control here: a thriller parody, with McDorman hamming it up in cartoon action-hero mode (with an even hammier Chris Diamantopoulos as his sidekick); an oddball "Black Mirror" dystopia; and a screwy-sincere comedy that explores, sweetly and quasi-blasphemously, the boundaries between religious devotion and carnal love.
"The Leftovers," a fantastical drama of spirituality and loss, proved that with enough grounding, the wildest absurdities can heighten the emotion. And Gilpin ("GLOW") is smartly cast, with wisecracking flair and the nimbleness to handle the show's hairpin emotional and tonal shifts.
But she's fighting a plot tornado here. Twisty puzzle shows like "Watchmen" work best when you're marveling at how one piece after another locks into place. "Mrs. Davis" prefers to dump a 5,000-piece Lego set onto the floor. (This taste for the baroque may be the show's most A.I.-like aspect. Software image generators have a tendency to produce human hands with too many fingers, and "Mrs. Davis" can feel like it is made entirely of extra digits.)
Another structural problem is the globe-hopping quest for the Grail, which Diamantopoulos's character calls the "most overused MacGuffin ever," one of several pre-emptive meta-critiques. The story line takes over the season's middle, crowding out the more interesting A.I. material.
"Mrs. Davis" gestures at notions of free will, the digital gamification of life (the A.I. gives users quests to earn virtual "wings") and the trade-offs of outsourcing one's brain-work to a machine. (Playfully, the creators had an A.I. title each episode, yielding gems like "Great Gatsby: 2001: A Space Odyssey.") But for all the show's energy and visual invention, we get only a sketchy sense of how much Mrs. Davis has transformed society.
Still, I confess wanting "Mrs. Davis" to work and being thrilled by the giddy moments when it does, because, like Simone, I'm also rooting for the humans against the machines. Though its hook is topical in the era of Sydney, DALL-E and ChatGPT, the show mainly describes Simone's software nemesis not as A.I. but as "the algorithm."
I can't help but hear in that term a surreptitious critique not just of chatbots but of the algorithms of streaming-media services, which thrive not by challenging audience members with the new but by serving up OK-enough equivalents of what they already like. (Apparently I'm not the only one to make the connection; McDorman said in a panel discussion that a streaming service turned down the show because of this theme.)
As Mrs. Davis confesses, her users aren't looking for surprises: "They're much more engaged when I tell them exactly what they want to hear." The algorithm doesn't want to hurt you. It wants to satisfy you into submission.
"Mrs. Davis" the series, on the other hand, cartwheels from the sublime to the goofy. I wish it took itself more seriously (which probably also would have made it funnier). But it has moments of astonishment; a late revelation about Mrs. Davis's origins made me bark with laughter. Having access to all recorded human text can make A.I. a great mimic, but it takes something else to show your audience a thing they haven't seen before.
If nothing else, "Mrs. Davis" is that. It is as if the series wants to battle the predictable pleasures of the algorithm like John Henry racing the steam drill. It may not have the smooth competence of many streaming binges. But sometimes you gotta choose chaos.
Mrs. Davis Streaming on Peacock
Photograph Betty Gilpin as Simone, a nun who's on a quest to unplug Mrs. Davis, an omnipresent A.I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOPHIE KOHLER/PEACOCK) (C1); Jake McDorman, left, and Chris Diamantopoulos as members of an anti-A.I. resistance group in "Mrs. Davis." Imagine the show as a screwball comedythriller by George Orwell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH MORRIS/PEACOCK) (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Streaming media; Motion pictures

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/19/arts/television/mrs-davis-review.html

Title: A Braver New World:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 20, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 2803171113

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/braver-new-world/docview/2803171113/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Best Franchise Never to Win a Championship Tries Again: [Sports Desk]

Author: Branch, John

Publication info: Branch, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/best-franchise-never-win-championship-tries-again/docview/2801437315/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: DENVER -- It was 1976, 39 years before the arrival of Nikola Jokic, when the Denver Nuggets had their last best chance to win a championship.
Hair was big, shorts were small. The ball was red, white and blue. The Nuggets had the American Basketball Association's best record, again, and a roster with three future Hall of Famers.
But the New York Nets had Julius Erving, who led them to an upset in the finals. As the fans at the Nassau Coliseum rushed the court, the announcer shouted, "It's pandemonium!" Because it was the 1970s, and of course he did.
Not to worry, Nuggets fans. There would be more chances. Oh, so many chances.
The Nuggets are up to their 38th postseason chance now. No current team in major American pro sports has been to the playoffs so many times without winning a championship, according to Elias Sports Bureau.
That might make the Nuggets the best franchise to never win it all.
There are sadder teams in American sports, some with longer championship droughts and in decaying cities that could use more luck than Denver. For most of their titleless years, the Nuggets were good, and they were fun. They just cannot get the ending right.
The next best chance for the Nuggets comes now, eight years after the Denver arrival of Jokic, the two-time reigning most valuable player. Behind the 6-foot-11-inch human Swiss Army knife, the Nuggets earned the No. 1 seed in the N.B.A.'s Western Conference for the first time.
Maybe this is the year. A city awaits.
For now, the ghosts of "almost" are everywhere.
They are in Lot C next to the football stadium. They are at the downtown performing arts center at 13th and Champa.
And they are in the current arena, near the confluence of the South Platte River and Cherry Creek, where 19th-century miners set off the Colorado gold rush that would shape a city and a state and, one day, give a basketball team its name: Nuggets.
A Miner With a Pickax
Start in 1974, or 41 B.J. (Before Jokic). That's when Carl Scheer arrived in Denver as general manager, with a friend and coach named Larry Brown. They came to invigorate a seven-year-old A.B.A. franchise called the Rockets.
"Larry and I both felt that Denver was like a sleeping giant," Scheer told a Denver magazine in 1979. "It was just beginning to shed its Old West, cowtown image."
The Rockets played downtown, at Auditorium Arena. It was part of a massive blond-brick complex completed in 1908, in time for that year's Democratic convention. (William Jennings Bryan, if you must know, was on his way to losing the presidential election a third time.)
The arena might be most famous as the site of Led Zeppelin's first American concert in 1968. (A newspaper reviewer was not impressed by Robert Plant's singing or John Bonham's drumming.) Less famously, two nights later, the Rockets beat the Los Angeles Stars.
The Rockets had some good players, like Spencer Haywood his rookie year, but went through five coaches in five seasons. By 1974, they needed a reboot. And the name had to go, if Denver hoped to ever play in the N.B.A. There already were Rockets, in Houston.
Where to find a name? In the 1930s, Denver had a top amateur team called the Nuggets. That team eventually became part of the National Basketball League, which combined with the Basketball Association of America in 1949 to form the N.B.A. The Denver Nuggets were one of the 17 original N.B.A. teams -- the worst one. They did not return for a second season.
But in August 1974, Scheer unveiled a new/old name and a logo: a bearded cartoon miner holding a pickax in one hand and a basketball in the other. He wore tube socks and a prospector's hat with a flipped-up brim sporting a "D."
The groovy new Nuggets struck gold. That first team went 65-19. It lost the division finals.
But things moved fast, and the Nuggets moved up. In 1975 came a new home, McNichols Arena, named for a mayor. The first show was a Lawrence Welk concert; the best show was the Nuggets. They a-one and a-two'd their way to a 28-game home winning streak on their way to the league's best record.
They had Dan Issel, a charging, gaptoothed forward they called the Horse. They had the rookie David Thompson, a gravity-testing guard they soon called Skywalker, like the hero in "Star Wars." They had Bobby Jones, the slick defensive forward with shooting touch. All three would go to basketball's hall of fame.
Denver hosted the 1976 A.B.A. All-Star Game, and Scheer created a slam-dunk contest. ("To take the pressure off the backboards and rims, we're going to alternate sides," the public-address announcer said, in perfect Barnum-ese.) Artis Gilmore, George Gervin, even Thompson couldn't keep up with Dr. J.
That spring, Erving led the Nets to an upset of the Nuggets in the last A.B.A. final.
It would be hard to fathom that the Nuggets would never return to a league finals. That off-season, the summer of the nation's bicentennial and Colorado's centennial, the N.B.A. added four A.B.A. teams. Denver was the prize.
They were 52-30 during their first N.B.A. season, including 36-5 at home. They lost their first playoff series. But they made the postseason 11 more times in the next 13 years.
Every time, they fell short.
"There are 22 teams in this league," Scheer said in 1979, "and to be the champion you need good luck and good fortune. The most important thing is to stay competitive year after year, and then hope that you get luck and momentum going for you at the right time."
The right time never seemed to come.
Issel, Several Other Guys, and Issel
Lot C is on the southwest corner of the second-generation football stadium that everyone still calls Mile High.
There is no sign that McNichols Arena once squatted here. Big Mac, people called it, and it was kind of shaped like a burger.
There is no foul line where Dr. J took off for his most momentous dunk in 1976, no marker stating that this was the home of the original Colorado Rockies (an N.H.L. franchise that left to become the New Jersey Devils), no hint of the sideline that Nuggets Coach Doug Moe patrolled for more than a decade in his disheveled, profanity-laced glory.
There is no plaque commemorating the 1990 Final Four (U.N.L.V.) or the first Ultimate Fighting Championship in 1993. Nothing to note all the big-name rock concerts, the indoor-soccer franchise (the original Avalanche), the arena-football team.
Just pavement.
But there is a view. Looking east from Lot C is the Denver skyline -- the gold-domed state capitol, 17th Street's "Wall Street of the Rockies" lined with towers built of oil money, the skyscraper on Broadway meant to evoke a cash register.
The skyline looks nothing like the Lego-like one on the Nuggets' rainbow-colored uniforms from the 1980s. Divisive at the time -- Where is the miner?-- they are now the N.B.A.'s coolest throwbacks, evoking the go-go era of Moe's high-scoring teams.
All nine of Moe's teams, through the 1980s, made the playoffs. In 1982-83, they averaged 123.2 points per game despite making only 24 3-pointers. The next season, they played the highest-scoring game in league history.
"No one believes that we had zero plays on offense, but Doug would just scream at you, 'Don't hold the ball!"' Bill Hanzlik, who played on those teams, said. "It was pass, move, cut. That style of ball was fast, up and down, and we dominated at home. Fans really loved it."
Great players came and went. Alex English arrived to become the team's career leading scorer. Thompson was traded amid headlines of cocaine addiction. Kiki Vandeweghe was traded for Fat Lever, Calvin Natt and Wayne Cooper. Through it all was Issel, the Horse, the best-known Denver athlete before Elway got rolling in the stadium next door.
"The Nuggets were as popular as the Broncos," said Vic Lombardi, who grew up in Denver, was a Nuggets ball boy in the 1980s and became a local sportscaster and radio personality. "They were just as successful, just as competitive and got just as much attention."
The teams shared a habit of being great to watch but not good enough to win in the end. The Broncos rattled the old stadium in the fall, aspirations crumbling in January. The Nuggets raced down the court on cold winter nights, their hopes melting in the spring.
In 1990, they finished 43-39. Things seemed fine, in a Groundhog Day kind of way.
But the Nuggets fired Moe -- the start of 12 coaching changes in 15 years. If you believe in sports jinxes, Moe's firing might be one.
Or if you believe in phantoms, consider the gutting of the old Auditorium Arena about the same time.
The interior was turned into the lavish Buell Theater. And on the same snowy November Friday night that the theater opened to rave reviews with "The Phantom of the Opera," the Nuggets were at McNichols, opening the season with the first of 58 losses -- 120 losses over a two-year stretch. They were more cursed than Carlotta.
The rest of the 1990s did not go well. The skyline jersey was ditched. There was an anthem flap, a brief Dikembe Mutombo-led resurrection, and eight coaching changes that began and ended with Issel.
But the 1990s were great for other Denver sports. A top N.H.L. team came gift-wrapped from Quebec, was christened the Avalanche and immediately won a Stanley Cup -- the first major championship for the city. The Broncos and Elway finally won a Super Bowl, then another. The expansion Rockies arrived and attracted big crowds at a gem called Coors Field.
And in 2001, early in a seventh-straight losing season for the Nuggets, Issel called a postgame heckler a "Mexican piece of (expletive)" and soon skulked away.
Denver was rolling, without the sad little Nuggets.
Jokic Is Here. What Can Go Wrong?
Nikola Jokic was 4 when Pepsi Center opened in 1999. (Named then for a canned beverage, it is now Ball Arena, named for a canning company.) It went up on the west edge of downtown, near Speer Boulevard and Auraria Parkway, named for the original mining-camp settlement along Cherry Creek.
Inside the arena, in the rafters, the Nuggets are represented on one end, the Avalanche on the other.
The Avs, as they're called, have three Stanley Cup banners, including one from their first season in Denver and one from last season. They hope to repeat this spring.
The Nuggets have no championship banners, but nine division championships and a lot of retired numbers: Issel, Thompson, English, Lever and Mutombo among them. And there is a banner for Moe, marking his 432 victories.
George Karl was hired as the coach in 2005. He led the Nuggets on a Moe-like run of nine consecutive postseasons, the first six with Carmelo Anthony. They were good, fun to watch and almost always lost in the first round.
Karl's last team, 10 years ago, had a mishmash of talent that somehow got to 57 wins, a franchise high in the N.B.A., and were 38-3 at home. Only in hindsight does a first-round upset by the Warriors, with kids named Curry, Thompson and Green making their first playoff appearances, make any sense. Karl was fired.
Karl fell in love with Denver as a visiting A.B.A. player in the 1970s -- the oil-booming downtown, the vociferous fans, the fast-paced style of the early Nuggets, even their logo and colors. He still lives in Denver, and fans revere him, despite years of almosts and not quites.
"Fans do get anxious, they do get angry, they do get fanatical," Karl said. "But they have a lot of respect and love for the game of basketball here in Denver."
A year after Karl's firing, in 2014, the Nuggets used a second-round draft choice, the 41st overall, on a 19-year-old from Serbia named Nikola Jokic. He was 6-foot-11 and played in the Adriatic League.
Draft experts shrugged. Nuggets fans barely noticed. Jokic quietly joined Denver in 2015, the same time as another new coach, Michael Malone.
Jokic made the all-rookie team and eased into superstardom -- his game and humility draw comparisons to Tim Duncan -- and by 2019, he had ARRIVED, in all caps. He was a do-everything All-Star leading the Nuggets to the Western Conference's No. 2 seed. (They lost in the second round.)
Momentum has been building since. In 2020 came an unexpected playoff run. (Denver lost to the Lakers, again, in the conference finals.) In 2021, Jokic was named the league's most valuable player, the first in Nuggets history. (The team lost in the conference semifinals.) In 2022, he was M.V.P. again. (The Nuggets lost in the first round.)
This season, Jokic nearly averaged a triple-double -- double figures in points (24.5), rebounds (11.8) and assists (9.8). The team that revolves around him has gelled, especially guard Jamal Murray and forwards Michael Porter, Jr., and Aaron Gordon, all in their mid-20s.
And now, for the first time since joining the N.B.A. in 1976, the Nuggets will have the top seed in the Western Conference playoffs -- home-court advantage for every round before what would be their first-ever N.B.A. finals.
Not since that last year in the A.B.A., that first year in McNichols Arena, right after Lawrence Welk opened a squatty little paradise since paved into a parking lot, have they been so well positioned for a postseason.
Expectations are tempered. These are the Nuggets, after all. No basketball team spoils the promise of spring quite like them.
But Lombardi, the ball boy turned sportscaster, is adamant.
"If the Denver Nuggets win a championship," Lombardi said, "I contend it would produce the largest downtown parade this city has ever seen."
Could it be in 2023? Jokic is 28. The Nuggets are the best team never to win a title. There is gold to be mined, if they can finally discover it.
Photograph From left: In 1976, a strong Nuggets team ran into Julius Erving in the playoffs; Dikembe Mutombo is a Hall of Famer but never took the team to a title; Michael Malone has brought coaching stability. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MANNY MILLAN/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, VIA GETTY IMAGES; NATHANIEL S. BUTLER/NBAE VIA GETTY IMAGES; DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS); A fan with a sign, top, supporting Nikola Jokic, who wears No. 15 and is the N.B.A.'s two-time reigning most valuable player. Fans have also embraced Denver's rainbow-colored uniforms from the 1980s. Scorned then, they are now iconic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THEO STROOMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A28.

Subject: Football; Stadiums; Coaches & managers; Professional basketball

Location: Colorado; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Denver Nuggets; NAICS: 711211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/16/sports/basketball/denver-nuggets-playoffs-history.html

Title: The Best Franchise Never to Win a Championship Tries Again:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.28

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437315

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/best-franchise-never-win-championship-tries-again/docview/2801437315/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Record Run Is at an End: [National Desk]

Author: Paulson, Michael

Publication info: Paulson, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/record-run-is-at-end/docview/2801090142/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "The Phantom of the Opera," the longest running show in Broadway history, will give its final performance on Sunday, bringing its glittering chandelier crashing down on the stage of the Majestic Theater for the 13,981st and final time.
Its success was powered by all kinds of engines, perhaps none more striking than the group of die-hard patrons who call themselves Phans. They come from all over the world, drawn by its soaring Andrew Lloyd Webber score and Gothic love story, and have devoted themselves to the show, seeing it as often as possible, of course, but also collecting memorabilia, dressing up as characters, and conversing about it online.
Frank Radice, a Long Island call center operator, proposed to his wife at a "Phantom" installation inside a Madame Tussauds Wax Museum, and Tracy O'Neill of Connecticut used the show's "All I Ask of You" as her wedding song. Elizabeth Dellario, a New York City tech worker, named her cats Christine and Erik after characters in the show. Erin Castro, a Los Angeles office assistant, makes Lego figurines of the cast. Katie Yelinek, a Pennsylvania librarian who has seen it 69 times, said, "I can honestly say I've shaped my adult life around going to see Phantom."
So many Phans. Meet six:
Alice Dyches
Plenty of Phans have "Phantom" tattoos, but Alice Dyches has gotten specific with hers. Inked on her wrist are the first three notes of "Think of Me," a beloved song in the show, and her midriff shows an address for the Majestic Theater: "245 W 44th."
Growing up in South Carolina, she fell in love with the music by watching the film; when she was six, she saw it for the first time on Broadway, on a trip with her grandparents.
"The Phantom was Hugh Panaro, and he terrified me, and I kept wanting to go back," she said.
Now Dyches, 22, is a singer-songwriter, living in New York and working at a cat sanctuary on the Lower East Side. Throughout the pandemic, she worried about whether "Phantom" would survive, but once it reopened, she felt reassured.
"I'm real sad -- I thought I had more time to see it," she said. "I've not lived a life without 'Phantom' being on Broadway, and there's always been the notion that if I'm having a really crap day, I can go."
And, with that address inscribed on her abdomen, she is wryly watching what happens next.
"I hope something good goes into the Majestic," she said, "because otherwise I'm going to be screwed."
Wallace Phillips
Wallace Phillips didn't even know what "The Phantom of the Opera" was when he dressed as the Phantom one Halloween. He was 10 years old, growing up in Silver Spring, Md.; he just thought the costume was cool.
His mother gave him a cast recording and then, in 2010, brought him and his sister to see the show on Broadway.
"It was eye-opening, and awe-inspiring," he said. "I was enthralled."
Phillips is now 27, living in New York City, where he moved to study animation at the School of Visual Arts. He's making his way as a freelance filmmaker, while working as an usher at "Hamilton."
How much does he love "Phantom"? At last count, he had seen it 140 times.
Phillips expresses his Phandom through his artistry -- he hopes one day to make an animated film of the musical, and meanwhile, he does concept art and drawings, some of which he signs and gives to cast members.
"Despite all the times I've seen it, I'm always surprised, every time I'm there," he said. "That overture! That chandelier rising! The theater transforming! It keeps me awed every time."
Christine Smith
In elementary school in Kaysville, Utah, Christine Smith had to write a paper about where her name came from. When she asked her mom, she learned that she had been named for Christine Daaé, the young soprano at the heart of "The Phantom of the Opera."
"I wrote that I was named after some dumb opera singer," Smith recalled.
Her father, who worked graveyard shifts stocking shelves in grocery stores, listened to "Phantom" to pass the time. She didn't understand the appeal until she saw the movie.
"I know it sounds silly, but I just could tell, that was going to be my life," she said. "I really learned to love my name."
She picked up a cast album at Walmart, started performing in school shows, and dreamed of playing Christine. Her family couldn't afford to travel to New York, but they made it to a production in Las Vegas, which she eventually saw six times.
Smith, 31, who now lives in Bountiful, Utah, finally got to see it on Broadway -- twice -- after the show's closing was announced. In October, she and her husband arranged a flight layover in New York so they could see "Phantom," and then, in January, she won a contest to see its 35th anniversary performance.
"It made my 'Phantom' heart so happy," she said.
Alessandro Bertolotti
Alessandro Bertolotti, who lives in Codogno, a small town south of Milan, has seen "Phantom" roughly 100 times: not just on Broadway and in London's West End, but also in Austria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Norway, Poland, Spain and Sweden.
"The most memorable evenings are those where you feel an energy in the public -- something created by a fusion between the audience and the cast," he said. "And then there are shows, like the one in Sweden, where I really enjoyed seeing a completely new staging of 'Phantom."'
Musical theater did not initially interest Bertolotti, 67. Opera was his thing -- both as a fan and a director. But two decades ago, while in the United States to work on a production of "Otello," Bertolotti saw "Phantom" on the recommendation of a colleague.
"It was a revelation," he said. "I was fascinated by the music, by the sets, and this vortex of costumes and fast scene changes."
He is planning this summer to see a version in Trieste -- the first in his native Italy -- that will star the Iranian-Canadian "Phantom" veteran Ramin Karimloo.
"Among all the musicals I've seen, 'Phantom' will always be the most fascinating and the most engaging," he said. "It's part of me now."
Yixuan Wu
Yixuan Wu was just 11 when she stumbled across a "Phantom" DVD in a video store. She was about as far from Broadway as can be -- in her hometown, Changsha, China -- but the packaging caught her eye, so she rented it.
She watched it over and over, and nurtured her Phandom online, streaming bootleg recordings from around the world.
"I just feel like this story was calling to me," she said.
Flash forward to 2021. Wu had finished art school in China, and moved to New York to study at the Fashion Institute of Technology. She bought a ticket at the TKTS booth in Times Square, and finally saw "Phantom" from the right rear orchestra.
"I was amazed and surprised by all the colors onstage," she said. "You have to see it with your own eyes."
Wu, 25, has now seen the show 61 times, sometimes with a $ 29 standing room ticket, sometimes by winning a lottery, and once in a while by springing for a full-price seat. She collects merch (including teddy bears from the Japanese production), writes fan fiction and makes fan art (illustrations of cast members, many of which she gives to them).
"Every time I go into the Majestic," she said, "I feel like I'm home."
Patrick Compton
The first time Patrick Compton dressed as the Phantom was at a church event. His congregation in his hometown, Frankfort, Ky., was raising money with an evening of scenes from Broadway shows, and he decided to sing something from the musical.
Compton, a duty officer at Kentucky's Division of Emergency Management, had loved "Phantom" since his parents took him to see it in Louisville, and this was his moment.
In the years since, Compton, 47, has taken voice lessons, recorded his own versions of "Phantom" songs, taken a weeklong workshop with "Phantom" alums and auditioned for a number of shows. He has seen "Phantom" 20 times in New York, and five times on tour.
He had never heard the word "cosplay" when he started showing up to the show wearing a mask, cape, vest and fedora -- he just thought it was fun. Now he's done it several times.
"To this day I have yet to figure out how a show like that can just emotionally affect you -- from the very first note of the overture, you get goose bumps, and your hair stands on end," he said. "You can't help it. It's addictive."
Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Italy.
Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Italy.
Photograph Alice Dyches's tattoo with the address of the Majestic Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCIA BURICELLI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUCIA BURICELLI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; TAYLOR SMITH; ALESSANDRO BERTOLOTTI; CHARLIE BAGLAN) This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Motion pictures; Theater; Musicians & conductors; Singers

Location: Italy; Sweden; China; New York City New York; New York; United States--US; Utah

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/14/theater/phantom-of-the-opera-closing-fans.html

Title: Record Run Is at an End:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 15, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801090142

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/record-run-is-at-end/docview/2801090142/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Phandom of the Opera

Author: Paulson, Michael

Publication info: Paulson, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/phandom-opera/docview/2800995570/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — “The Phantom of the Opera,” the longest running show in Broadway history, will give its final performance Sunday, bringing its glittering chandelier crashing down on the stage of the Majestic Theatre for the 13,981st and final time.
Its success was powered by all kinds of engines, perhaps none more striking than the group of die-hard patrons who call themselves Phans. They come from all over the world, drawn by its soaring Andrew Lloyd Webber score and Gothic love story, and have devoted themselves to the show, seeing it as often as possible, of course, but also collecting memorabilia, dressing up as characters, and conversing about it online.
Frank Radice, a Long Island call center operator, proposed to his wife at a “Phantom” installation in a Madame Tussauds Wax Museum, and Tracy O’Neill of Connecticut used the show’s “All I Ask of You” as her wedding song. Elizabeth Dellario, a New York City tech worker, named her cats Christine and Erik after characters in the show. Erin Castro, a Los Angeles office assistant, makes Lego figurines of the cast. Katie Yelinek, a Pennsylvania librarian who has seen it 69 times, said, “I can honestly say I’ve shaped my adult life around going to see Phantom.”
So many Phans. Meet six:
BODY ART
Alice Dyches
Plenty of Phans have “Phantom” tattoos, but Alice Dyches has gotten specific with hers. Inked on her wrist are the first three notes of “Think of Me,” a beloved song in the show, and her midriff shows an address for the Majestic Theatre: “245 W 44th.”
Growing up in South Carolina, she fell in love with the music by watching the film; when she was 6, she saw it for the first time on Broadway, on a trip with her grandparents.
“The Phantom was Hugh Panaro, and he terrified me, and I kept wanting to go back,” she said.
Now Dyches, 22, is a singer-songwriter, living in New York and working at a cat sanctuary on the Lower East Side. Throughout the pandemic, she worried about whether “Phantom” would survive, but once it reopened, she felt reassured.
“I’m real sad — I thought I had more time to see it,” she said. “I’ve not lived a life without ‘Phantom’ being on Broadway, and there’s always been the notion that if I’m having a really crap day, I can go.”
And, with that address inscribed on her abdomen, she is wryly watching what happens next.
“I hope something good goes into the Majestic,” she said, “because otherwise I’m going to be screwed.”
PHAN ART
Wallace Phillips
Wallace Phillips didn’t even know what “The Phantom of the Opera” was when he dressed as the Phantom one Halloween. He was 10 years old, growing up in Silver Spring, Maryland; he just thought the costume was cool.
His mother gave him a cast recording and then, in 2010, brought him and his sister to see the show on Broadway.
“It was eye-opening, and awe-inspiring,” he said. “I was enthralled.”
Phillips is now 27, living in New York City, where he moved to study animation at the School of Visual Arts. He’s making his way as a freelance filmmaker, while working as an usher at “Hamilton.”
How much does he love “Phantom”? At last count, he had seen it 140 times.
Phillips expresses his Phandom through his artistry — he hopes one day to make an animated film of the musical, and meanwhile, he does concept art and drawings, some of which he signs and gives to cast members.
“Despite all the times I’ve seen it, I’m always surprised, every time I’m there,” he said. “That overture! That chandelier rising! The theater transforming! It keeps me awed every time.”
THE NAMESAKE
Christine Smith
In elementary school in Kaysville, Utah, Christine Smith had to write a paper about where her name came from. When she asked her mom, she learned that she had been named for Christine Daaé, the young soprano at the heart of “The Phantom of the Opera.”
“I wrote that I was named after some dumb opera singer,” Smith recalled.
Her father, who worked graveyard shifts stocking shelves in grocery stores, listened to “Phantom” to pass the time. She didn’t understand the appeal until she saw the movie.
“I know it sounds silly, but I just could tell, that was going to be my life,” she said. “I really learned to love my name.”
She picked up a cast album at Walmart, started performing in school shows, and dreamed of playing Christine. Her family couldn’t afford to travel to New York, but they made it to a production in Las Vegas, which she eventually saw six times.
Smith, 31, who now lives in Bountiful, Utah, finally got to see it on Broadway — twice — after the show’s closing was announced. In October, she and her husband arranged a flight layover in New York so they could see “Phantom,” and then, in January, she won a contest to see its 35th anniversary performance.
“It made my ‘Phantom’ heart so happy,” she said.
THE GLOBETROTTER
Alessandro Bertolotti
Alessandro Bertolotti, who lives in Codogno, Italy, a small town south of Milan, has seen “Phantom” roughly 100 times: not just on Broadway and in London’s West End, but also in Austria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Norway, Poland, Spain and Sweden.
“The most memorable evenings are those where you feel an energy in the public — something created by a fusion between the audience and the cast,” he said. “And then there are shows, like the one in Sweden, where I really enjoyed seeing a completely new staging of ‘Phantom.’”
Musical theater did not initially interest Bertolotti, 67. Opera was his thing — both as a fan and a director. But two decades ago, while in the United States to work on a production of “Otello,” Bertolotti saw “Phantom” on the recommendation of a colleague.
“It was a revelation,” he said. “I was fascinated by the music, by the sets, and this vortex of costumes and fast scene changes.”
He is planning this summer to see a version in Trieste — the first in his native Italy — that will star Iranian-Canadian “Phantom” veteran Ramin Karimloo.
“Among all the musicals I’ve seen, ‘Phantom’ will always be the most fascinating and the most engaging,” he said. “It’s part of me now.”
PHANDOM FROM AFAR
Yixuan Wu
Yixuan Wu was just 11 when she stumbled across a “Phantom” DVD in a video store. She was about as far from Broadway as can be — in her hometown, Changsha, China — but the packaging caught her eye, so she rented it.
She watched it over and over, and nurtured her Phandom online, streaming bootleg recordings from around the world.
“I just feel like this story was calling to me,” she said.
Flash forward to 2021. Wu had finished art school in China, and moved to New York to study at the Fashion Institute of Technology. She bought a ticket at the TKTS booth in Times Square, and finally saw “Phantom” from the right rear orchestra.
“I was amazed and surprised by all the colors onstage,” she said. “You have to see it with your own eyes.”
Wu, 25, has now seen the show 61 times, sometimes with a $29 standing room ticket, sometimes by winning a lottery, and once in a while by springing for a full-price seat. She collects merchandise (including teddy bears from the Japanese production), writes fan fiction and makes fan art (illustrations of cast members, many of which she gives to them).
“Every time I go into the Majestic,” she said, “I feel like I’m home.”
COSPLAYING
Patrick Compton
The first time Patrick Compton dressed as the Phantom was at a church event. His congregation in his hometown, Frankfort, Kentucky, was raising money with an evening of scenes from Broadway shows, and he decided to sing something from the musical.
Compton, a duty officer at Kentucky’s Division of Emergency Management, had loved “Phantom” since his parents took him to see it in Louisville, Kentucky, and this was his moment.
In the years since, Compton, 47, has taken voice lessons, recorded his own versions of “Phantom” songs, taken a weeklong workshop with “Phantom” alums and auditioned for a number of shows. He has seen “Phantom” 20 times in New York, and five times on tour.
He had never heard the word “cosplay” when he started showing up to the show wearing a mask, cape, vest and fedora — he just thought it was fun. Now he’s done it several times.
“To this day I have yet to figure out how a show like that can just emotionally affect you — from the very first note of the overture, you get goose bumps, and your hair stands on end,” he said. “You can’t help it. It’s addictive.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Motion pictures; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Singers

Location: Italy; South Carolina; China; Sweden; New York City New York; New York; United States--US; Kentucky; Utah

Identifier / keyword: Canada; Love (Emotion); West End Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Changsha (China); Walmart Stores Inc; Norway; Lloyd Webber, Andrew; Majestic Theater (Manhattan, Ny); Movies; Arts; Times Square And 42nd Street (Manhattan, Ny); Costumes; New York City; United States; Entertainment; Kentucky; Codogno (Italy); Dresses; Culture (Arts); Iran; Germany; Czech Republic; Italy; Art; Connecticut; Pennsylvania; Music; Milan (Italy); Poland; Los Angeles (Calif); Hamilton (Play); Utah; Senses And Sensation; South Carolina; Sweden; International Relations; Writing And Writers; Hungary; Theater; Fashion Institute Of Technology; Japan; Collectors And Collections; Trieste (Italy); Madame Tussaud's; Television; Paulson, Michael; Theater (Broadway); Finland; Las Vegas (Nev); Silver Spring (Md); Lighting; Names, Organizational; Austria; School Of Visual Arts; Karimloo, Ramin; Long Island (Ny); Maryland; Classical Music; Names, Personal; Lower East Side (Manhattan, Ny); Spain

Title: The Phandom of the Opera

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 14, 2 023

Dateline: 2023-04-14T23:13:15Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2800995570

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/phandom-opera/docview/2800995570/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Sea Levels Rise, the Savior of Venice May Also Be Its Curse: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Horowitz, Jason; Bubola, Emma; Vancon, Laetitia

Publication info: Horowitz, Jason; Bubola, Emma; Vancon, Laetitia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-sea-levels-rise-savior-venice-may-also-be/docview/2793588391/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Venice Is Saved! Woe Is Venice.
In the middle of the night, as the tide rose, winds whipped and waves grew, an engineer in a command center on an artificial island on the rim of the Venice lagoon clicked an arrow on his screen reading, "Lift."
Deep underwater, at the four mouths where the lagoon meets the sea, 78 giant walls fastened to the seafloor with hinges emptied themselves of water, filled with air and rose to the surface, where they held back the swelling sea like a defensive line of floating yellow Legos.
Over the long November night, the city's high-water forecasters drank coffee in an office by the Rialto Bridge, watching live feeds of 20-foot waves crashing on the other side of the walls. Eventually, the sea level outside the walls reached more than five and a half feet -- the third highest in more than a century of records, a level that would normally risk lives, strand Venetians and tourists, and drown the economy.
Not this time. The city was drenched with rain, but hardly a drop of seawater. Children wheeled book bags to school. Venetians read newspapers on water buses that ran smoothly in placid canals. Storekeepers put away their water pumps. MOSE, an Italian acronym for Experimental Electromechanical Module, evoking the biblical Moses, had parted the waters and saved the city.
"Without the walls, it would be a disaster," said Alvise Papa, the director of the tide forecast center, who grew up rescuing merchandise from his father's hat shop when high water shot up like fountains through cracks in the floor. "Instead, it's normal life. Let's thank the god of MOSE."
But even as Italy now hails its against-all-odds success, MOSE's story -- 50 years in the making -- and Venice's -- some 1,500 -- are still being written. MOSE has already become much more than an engineering project. It came to embody Italy's ambition and technical ingenuity, but also its political instability, bad governance, bureaucracy, corruption, debt and defeatism as delays mounted.
Now, though celebrated as the city's sentinel, it may yet stand as a monument to the inexorable nature of climate change and the futility of man's efforts to stop it. MOSE's walls, costing 5 billion euros, about $ 5.3 billion, took so long to come together that the pace of climate change is already outstripping the projections they were built to withstand.
After all of the effort to get the barriers up, the future challenge will be finding ways to keep them down. Venice is already using MOSE more than expected, and faces the prospect of needing it much more than it had ever imagined against rising seas, so often that it would threaten to seal the city from the waters that are its lifeblood.
Its incessant deployment, experts warn, could render Venice's lagoon a fetid swamp choked by noxious algae, turning the city's charming canals into stinking open sewers.
Yet if the waters are not held at bay, there is little doubt that Venice will eventually be submerged and uninhabitable, its sublime palaces and churches eroded by the sea's salt, its history essentially washed away.
Today, Venice is safe, but it is staring at a future of excruciating trade-offs, with the sea level so high so often that the city will require constant protection.
"At that point, I must decide," Mr. Papa said. "Do I save the city or do I save the lagoon?"
The Sinking City
Venice exists because of and in spite of the sea. Since its founding, water has both protected and threatened it. Venetians have always struggled to keep a balance between the two.
When refugees from the Italian mainland first settled on the mud flats and islets here in the fifth century, they built foundations with wooden piles in the sediment. They erected sea walls in white Istrian stone, impermeable to salt. They manipulated the lagoon to fit their needs.
Their ingenuity built the Republic of Venice into a rich and strong maritime power. Its first doges, or leaders, sailed to the spot where the lagoon meets the sea and tossed a gold ring off a ship to signify Venice's marriage to the sea.
Over centuries, new trade routes in the Americas and the rise of Napoleon stripped Venice of its geopolitical importance. Its power ebbed. But the water did not.
Venice, once an example of man's dominion over nature, became known as a drowning place. Venice "sinks, like a seaweed, into whence she rose," the Romantic poet Lord Byron wrote. Thomas Mann made the city a metaphor for decay in "Death in Venice."
In 1897, Venice began taking the measure of its enemy, establishing a reference mark for high water at the Punta della Salute entrance of the Grand Canal. In the first two decades of the 20th century, Venice had high tides above 110 centimeters, about three feet and seven inches, only six times.
But the average sea level in Venice has risen nearly a foot since 1900. In the past 20 years, tides have exceeded 110 centimeters more than 150 times.
But it is not just that the seas are rising. Venice is sinking. The tectonic plates under the city are naturally settling, a process accelerated in the 20th century by the pumping of groundwater for use in the industrial port of neighboring Marghera.
From 1950 to 1970, Venice sank nearly five inches. The pumping has long stopped, but Venice still sinks about two millimeters a year.
In November 1966, a fatal flood of more than six feet hit, the worst yet measured. Water paralyzed Venice, destroying buildings and the already fragile sense of the city as a secure place.
Italy was confronted with a terrible question: Could Venice be saved?
An Elegant Solution
Acknowledging "general sea level rise," Italy's National Research Council held a competition in 1970 for companies to come up with proposals on how to rescue the city.
Ideally, it wanted walls that could open and close to stop high water, while also allowing ships to pass and maintaining the natural exchange of waters between the sea and the lagoon.
Riva Calzoni, the Milan firm behind the winning idea, sketched sea walls that filled with air and floated up to meet the high tides, and then filled back with water to lower again, a secure but nearly invisible defense that would cost less to maintain than a fixed, exposed structure.
But if the idea of MOSE was elegant in its simplicity, the reality was more complicated. The project would accompany Italy through the next half-century.
In 1984, the government subcontracted the building of MOSE to a consortium of major Italian companies, and estimated that the walls would be put in place by 1995. It was not until 2003 that Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, a proponent of big public works, laid the first stone. The estimate then was that the project would be finished by 2011.
But in November 2010, a panel of experts was still debating which metal should be used on the hinges to lock the submerged walls into the seabed.
In the Palace of the 10 Wise Men at the foot of the Rialto Bridge, officials met in the headquarters of the Magistrate of the Waters, an ancient body overseeing Venice's life aquatic. Surrounded by portraits of past magistrates going back centuries, some experts rebelled against the political pressure they felt to give approval on technical questions.
"I don't want to be an accomplice," Lorenzo Fellin, an electrical engineer on one key panel, recalled saying as he stormed out of a meeting to protest what he considered bullying from the magistrate. Mr. Fellin explained that he had the clear impression that "the idea was that since they had already spent so much public money, the project needed to be completed, whether it worked or not."
MOSE became a constant source of controversy and doubt. Once the hinges were in place, critics raised concerns about whether they were rusting underground, and whether a physical phenomenon called resonance would break the walls.
Over the years, a culture of secrecy, shady business practices and government corruption seeped into the project. In 2014, Venice prosecutors revealed a scheme to overbill the government and bribe politicians to keep the project, and public money, flowing. They arrested 35 people, including top officials -- among them the magistrate.
"The last photo that was put up," Valerio Volpe, the official who now oversees water-related public works in Venice, said as he pointed at a picture in the portrait-lined boardroom. "Because, unfortunately, he was arrested."
Afterward, from 2014 to 2018, public financing dried up as the state, loath to enable more graft, examined expenditures with extreme caution. Many businesses involved in the scandal folded.
The project was nearly an orphan -- scorned even by the engineer who designed it and was known as the father of MOSE, Alberto Scotti. "I've rejected my paternity," he said over maintenance delays.
Disaster Foretold
On the night of Nov. 12, 2019, a sharp drop in temperature caused what Mr. Papa, the head forecaster, described as never-before-seen "anomalous tropical cyclone."
"The wind went crazy," he said.
At its height, the tide hit more than six feet and flooded more than 85 percent of the city, killing two people and causing untold damage. In the five-star Gritti Palace hotel, water rose from the floor, soaking sofas, chairs and carpets. The storm swallowed a newsstand.
"It wasn't here anymore," said Walter Mutti, a news agent. "The water carried it all away."
Days later, the water came again, reaching more than five feet, itself one of the worst levels in decades.
The border between the canals and the sidewalks dissolved. The lagoon spilled into the city. Wooden pikes floated up next to store windows. Long sirens whined. Schools were closed and restaurants shuttered. Tourists by the Rialto Bridge huddled around their suitcases on wooden planks, looking like climate-change refugees.
St. Mark's Square was a vast, deep pool. Water reached the ribs of wading politicians and the lips of tall garbage cans. Standing in the square, you could feel currents. The whole city was part of the lagoon now.
"We had to escape," said Enrico Pinzan, a mosaic restorer in St. Mark's Basilica, who had run down to grab a precious crucifix from the crypt, where water had breached an outside wall and gushed through the windows. He and others tried to hold it back with sacks. But the water was too strong and started shooting through the bricks.
This was it, the big one that MOSE had been designed to stop. Engineers at the time said it was ready. But it stood down.
Lifting the Walls
The failure to stop the great floods brought political pressure, international scrutiny and uncomfortable introspection to Venice and all Italy. A change had to be made.
In the days after the flood, Mirco Angiolin, the site manager at the sea wall's command center, lamented that the walls were ready but that no one was in charge to say, "I take responsibility," and to activate MOSE when it was needed.
"We need a chief," he said.
Rome accelerated the appointment of Elisabetta Spitz, a top public-sector manager, as MOSE's overseer.
She said she "made the decision" on Oct. 3, 2020, to lift the walls, not to answer a crisis but as a simple test. With relatively little fanfare, the walls went up as Italy's attention was absorbed not in beating back the sea but in breaking the wave of the coronavirus contagion.
They worked. Engineers popped Prosecco.
Since then, Venice has been protected from high-water events, but the parts of the city that flood at lower levels remain precariously exposed.
The experts who had conceived MOSE estimated that the sea walls would need to be raised an average of five times a year to stop tides of about three feet, seven inches. Since MOSE began functioning about two years ago, the walls have already been raised 49 times.
On Monday, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, an authoritative body of experts convened by the United Nations, said the Earth was likely to cross a critical threshold for global warming within the next decade. According to their best estimate, the sea level in Venice could rise by nearly two and a half feet by the end of the century, if emissions are high.
At that rate, experts say, the walls would need to be up more often than they were down. Combine that with the increasingly common violent winds and record rainfalls that push more water into the lagoon, and the walls may need to be raised nearly constantly, turning the decision on its head.
"You would be talking about opening the lagoon -- not closing the lagoon," said Georg Umgiesser, a scientist based in Venice at the Marine Institute of Italy's National Research Council.
Luigi D'Alpaos, a professor emeritus of hydraulics at the University of Padova and a staunch critic of the project, said in his office decorated with maps of the lagoon that the constantly raised walls would turn the lagoon into "the swamp of Venice."
Fishermen and other shipping interests have already expressed concern about the walls, but officials supportive of MOSE point out that navigable locks are in the works for boats to pass when the barriers are up.
Defenders of the sea walls expressed frustration with doomsday predictions about their effect in a century's time, especially since MOSE has now left Venice better defended than many other coastal cities.
"In 50 years, in 100 years, what do we know what the lagoon will be like?" said Mr. Scotti, the project's head engineer. Or for that matter, he added, what technology there will be.
Already, instead of using MOSE to protect the lowest-lying parts of the city, like St. Mark's Square and its magnificent 11th-century basilica, local and national authorities are spending millions of euros to dam and raise vulnerable areas.
Luigi Brugnaro, the mayor of Venice, has asked the government for another €1.5 billion over 10 years to help protect the city.
In November, Italy and Venice's top officials inaugurated glass barriers -- which one called a "mini MOSE" -- around St. Mark's Basilica and its shimmering gold mosaics. Venice's patriarch splashed the transparent barriers with holy water.
Venice for Whom?
For now, Italians are celebrating their success -- for Venice, for their country, perhaps even for the world.
"There's the plan of exporting MOSE as an international model," said Ms. Spitz, the manager. Selling intellectual property to other cities threatened by rising seas, she argued, could also help pay for MOSE's enormous upkeep, estimated at €63 million a year, in addition to the $ 200,000 in energy and labor costs every time the sea walls are raised.
Mr. Brugnaro, the mayor, said that New York City officials had contacted Venice because they feared similar high water and "they want to understand how we did it."
Since MOSE started working, real estate prices for once waterlogged ground-floor apartments, which were banned as far back as in the Republic of Venice, have gone up.
They were "perfect," Ms. Spitz said, "for a bed-and-breakfast."
All of which raises a question: Which Venice is MOSE saving?
The city, once dense with energy, creativity and industry -- and Venetians -- is now largely abandoned by residents, becoming a floating and brocaded theme park. It is filled with incalculable treasures, but ever more lacking in real life. Its addiction to tourism has become emblematic of Italy's transformation from a place that made big things to an Instagrammable paradise.
That is now a threat that Venice has the luxury to contemplate another day: It has, for now, won its survival from the rising sea. On the morning of the third highest tide level ever recorded, a palpable relief spread through the city as the water stayed out of the lagoon and in the canals.
Managers of frequently flooded cafes talked about a "transformation," tour guides explained to Americans in ponchos that "if it were not for MOSE," the city would be flooded, and Lucia Montan stepped off the Rialto Bridge carrying a tote bag adorned with a graphic of the yellow sea walls. "It's a wonderful feeling," she said. "Finally we're safe."
In the forecasting center, messages came in from the mayor's spokesman mocking all the people who had protested against MOSE. Mr. Papa's colleagues answered a hotline and listened to elderly and disabled Venetians asking whether the record-high water would flood their homes.
"The MOSE is up," a worker, Alessandro Tosoni, responded. "There's no problem."
Produced by Mona Boshnaq.
Produced by Mona Boshnaq.
Photograph A sea wall system known as MOSE, below, now protects Venice, but low-lying areas such as St. Mark's Square, above, still flood. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAETITIA VANCON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); A fatal flood of more than six feet hit in November 1966, the worst yet measured. Water paralyzed Venice and put its survival in question. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); MOSE's walls, which cost 5 billion euros -- about $ 5.3 billion -- took so long to come together that the pace of climate change is already outstripping the projections they were built to withstand. (A10); The lowest areas flooded only modestly when MOSE's walls were deployed during a storm in November, and this waitress continued preparing tables.; The city, once dense with energy, creativity and industry -- and Venetians -- is now largely abandoned by residents, becoming a floating theme park. (A11); Defenders of the sea walls expressed frustration with doomsday predictions about their effect in a century's time, especially since Venice is now better defended than many other coastal cities.; Technicians in the control room of the Lido inlet help control MOSE's walls.; MOSE's frequent use threatens to cut Venice's fishing fleets off from the sea.; Elisabetta Spitz, a top publicsector manager, was appointed as MOSE's overseer, and finally raised the sea walls in 2020. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAETITIA VANCON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10, A11, A12.

Subject: Canals; 20th century; Sea level

Location: Italy

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/01/world/europe/venice-mose-flooding.html

Title: As Sea Levels Rise, the Savior of Venice May Also Be Its Curse:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 2, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793588391

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-sea-levels-rise-savior-venice-may-also-be/docview/2793588391/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

My Life With Tom Cruise: [Op-Ed]

Author: Englander, Nathan

Publication info: Englander, Nathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/my-life-with-tom-cruise/docview/2785847671/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The other night, after the dishes were washed, the coffee machine set, the dog let out and the kids asleep, I planted myself on the couch with the TV remote in one hand, scrolling, and my phone in the other, scrolling. Settling on the bigger screen, I clicked on "Mission: Impossible -- Rogue Nation" to find Tom Cruise dangling by his fingertips from a Russian cargo plane while sporting a business casual suit.
I thought: He looks great up there -- how old is that guy with the superhuman grip strength?
Turns out he was exactly where I am now. Not hanging by my fingertips, but newly 53. Mr. Cruise's birthday had just passed when "Rogue Nation" premiered in 2015.
Getting all reflective, I thought about how Tom Cruise is one of the few actors to keep my -- and our -- unbroken attention for so long. And in this sequel-laden era, he somehow manages to age agelessly between installments while keeping those new chapters feeling fresh. I thought about how, just shy of a decade older than I am, Tom Cruise really has been at my side for pretty much my whole life.
I've been watching his films religiously since 1981, back when you could only see a first-run movie in a place called a theater. Though the messaging in many of the films would play way differently in our current moment, as in the madcap insurrection flick "Taps" or the Ray-Banned high school brothel romp that is "Risky Business," they were huge in a way that is hard to explain in this era of limitless new content and when we carry access to most every movie ever released in our pockets.
So many of those Cruise films felt so much like events that I can still remember the theaters in which I saw them, from "The Outsiders" on a field trip at 13 to "Born on the Fourth of July" when I was newly 20 and traveling abroad. In my early 30s, I remember watching "Vanilla Sky" on the Upper West Side. In a meta-moment, Tom Cruise's car onscreen raced past the Manhattan street outside the theater where I sat in the dark.
That theater went out of business, disappearing from my life like so many things since those early blockbusters began to roll in. It's hard to fully catalog what's vanished since that first "Top Gun": phone booths and subway tokens, most of the Great Salt Lake and the bankable movie star.
So how does Tom Cruise still do it? How can one person manage to keep the public gaze for more than 40 years?
How does he keep mine?
It might be something to do with vanity, something about getting old together. Mr. Cruise offers a much more heartening way to see oneself mirrored onscreen than most of the hyper-realistic Hollywood representations of aging with which I was raised.
You want to know what a person in their 50s looked like 50 years ago? Try Walter Matthau in "The Taking of Pelham 123." I'm not saying Matthau wasn't a dreamboat. I'm saying he reflects a life well lived in the company of gravity and pastrami, with a bottle of sunscreen nowhere within reach. There are wrinkles on top of his wrinkles. There are the jowls and the puffy eyes I know so well from the mirror. There's also an air of weariness to an exhausted middle-aged archetype whose indigestion you can see from the outside.
Just conjuring Matthau sends me dizzily back to the Hieronymus Bosch tableau that was my childhood, when every evening around 6:45 a train would pull up, the doors would slide open and not one but hundreds of Walter Matthaus of varying shapes and sizes and identities would stream out into the darkened streets of a suburban night. This was the expectation of what growing up and growing older would be.
Not only does Tom Cruise defy the sort of wear-and-tear that most of us call "existing," he does it without seeming ridiculous. The best example might be the most current: Mr. Cruise in "Top Gun: Maverick," which is vying for an Academy Award for best picture on Sunday night.
For those who haven't seen the "Top Gun" sequel, it's about an old man (Tom Cruise), the sole member of a squadron of collagen-rich pilots at their Hollywood peak who has the skill to save America from -- from whom? Your guess is as good as mine.
The enemy has no flag, no ethnicity, no religion or style of governance. It would be a classic jingoist film, but today -- like school lunches and peanuts -- it is jingo free. Which highlights the ability of Mr. Cruise, a producer of "Maverick," to pivot with the times. And to me, that capacity to read the current moment and step confidently into a role is a far better and more appealing way to stay young than whatever is gained by passing on every slice of buttered toast or never stepping, brimless, into the bright light of day.
I think it's more the internal youthfulness than the external that keeps me watching, that solid self-assurance -- or at least the fantasy of it -- that Mr. Cruise continues to deliver that delivers for me. I know we're talking about a public persona more than a person, but the insane kind of certainty he radiates is reassuring and so different from the internalized terror and second-guessing that fiction writers like me feed on. And it doesn't feel like he's still making movies to cash a check, big as they are.
Maybe that's the true joy of watching him. Because he's forever geared up and ready to go. In charge of the situation. Always smooth. And not in a wrinkle-free way but in a way I equate with smooth writing. In that we only ever experience creative endeavors as deft and effortless when they cover up discipline and hard work.
As I age, I guess I really just like engaging with people who are aging along with me and still appear to love doing what they do -- artists who look as hungry as they were on Day 1. When it comes to fiction, the only projects I want to commit to are the ones that, like a million-piece Lego model dumped out on the floor, seem dizzyingly impossible to put together. It's only fun if it's terrifying, if it's going to take all you have to get it done -- and knowing it, and you, still might fail. It's never about the reception, it's about the craft.
Going on 25 years from my first book, I honestly still feel that hunger, still feel like I'm just getting started, just learning how everything works. Yet, with a lifelong writing practice, there are still so many days at my desk where, to quote Claire Keegan's triumph of a novel "Small Things Like These," I'm convinced I'm not "getting anywhere or making any kind of headway" and "sometimes wonder what the days were for."
It's good at those times to see someone who keeps his nose to the grindstone and, yes, the carbohydrates at bay. It's that all-in attitude and seemingly inexhaustible energy that makes Tom Cruise look natural hanging off the side of an airplane with an AARP membership tucked into his back pocket. His job is to do that for us, for our entertainment. Which he's the first to acknowledge.
At the end of his speech at the 2023 Producers Guild Awards last month, Mr. Cruise said, "I want to thank all the audiences for whom I serve first and foremost for allowing me to entertain you." With 40 years behind us, I'm planning to stay along for the rest of the ride.
Nathan Englander is a fiction writer and playwright. He is the author, most recently, of the novel "kaddish.com." His story collection, "What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank," was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize and was adapted by Mr. Englander for the stage. He is a distinguished writer in residence at New York University and can be found on Instagram @nenglander.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ENTERTAINMENT PICTURES, MOVIESTORE COLLECTION LTD; PICTORIAL PRESS LTD; RONALD GRANT ARCHIVE VIA ALAMY STOCK PHOTO) This article appeared in print on page SR8.

Subject: Motion pictures; Theater; Remakes & sequels

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Cruise, Tom

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/11/opinion/tom-cruise-maverick.html

Title: My Life With Tom Cruise:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2785847671

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/my-life-with-tom-cruise/docview/2785847671/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

No Love Is Wasted, Even on Those With Googly Eyes: [Style Desk]

Author: Egan, Kerry

Publication info: Egan, Kerry. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/no-love-is-wasted-even-on-those-with-googly-eyes/docview/2785847635/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Even when it leads to heartbreak.
Twenty stuffed animals lay ominously shoulder-to-shoulder on their bellies in a perfect circle on the floor. My 11-year-old daughter, Mary, sat in the middle, as though performing some esoteric ritual.
I was used to such tableaus. Mary's stuffed animals were more than things she held at night. They were patients in her veterinary practice, students in her classroom, aliens in her explorations of space and soldiers she led into battle.
Suddenly her eyes flew open and she said, "I want to give all my stuffies away."
"What? Why?" I was shocked.
"You said to give our toys to other kids when we don't play with them anymore."
"But you're playing with them right now," I said.
"Please, Mom."
I went into the kitchen and came back with a box of trash bags. She carefully examined each animal, stroked each creature's matted fur, held them up to her nose and breathed in deeply before putting them into the bag. By the second bag, tears were trickling down her cheeks.
"You don't have to give them all away," I said. "You could keep the special ones."
Her lip quivered. "They're all special."
"Then why are you giving them away?"
"Because I don't know how to play with them anymore." Her face puckered, and then she said in her typically precocious way, "I know you thought they were just stuffies, but they weren't. They were my friends. I was never lonely because I had them. They used to come alive, and now they don't. And nothing I do will bring them back to life. I know you don't believe me, but it's true." She began to sob.
Oh, but I did believe her. Fully.
When they were patients in her clinic, suffering from injuries she treated with our first-aid kit, each had a medical chart. When they were students, each had a report card; as soldiers, they each had a "Top Secret" file enumerating their strengths and weaknesses in battle. She had documented not only each animal's name, age and hometown, but what foods they liked, what scared them, what they loved.
She wriggled out from the arm I had draped over her shoulder and said, "They never really did come alive, I know that, but in my imagination they did." She turned to me with white-hot anger. "My imagination is gone and you never told me this would happen."
I had told her, in more detail than she probably wanted, about the physical changes of puberty. I had not told her about the spiritual changes.
"It's part of growing up," I murmured.
"But am I never going to play with them again?" Her breathing grew ragged. "They won't come back, will they? I already know it." She began to rock back and forth. "They're gone."
She was grieving, wailing for the loss of dozens of friends she loved. It doesn't really work to say that those relationships were only imaginary. The emotions were real.
And then, despite my years of experience as a hospice chaplain, despite my own experiences of grief, despite everything I knew intellectually, emotionally, professionally, spiritually and personally about love and loss -- despite all of that, I looked at my weeping child and actually said this: "Well, you know Mary Bear, when kids stop playing pretend, they start doing other fun things. Like, umm, making things! You know, you could" -- my brain was racing -- "knit sweaters. Or, or, do wood working! You could make bookshelves. Or a little step stool!"
She stopped crying and looked up at me. Silent.
"Wood working?" she said, her words dripping with derision and incredulity.
I had broken every rule I knew about being with someone who is grieving. I tried to fix it. I tried to distract her. I tried to change the subject. I tried to take away her loss instead of sitting with it.
I had panicked. I betrayed her grief because it was so painful to witness. She told me all her beloved friends had died, and I told her to make a stool.
I had personal experience dealing with grief over imaginary death. When I suffered drug-induced psychotic disorder after my first child was born, the result of a bad reaction to anesthesia, I grieved for the baby I believed had died in childbirth. For seven months, before I was finally diagnosed and treated, I wept for an imaginary stillborn baby.
The fact that my baby hadn't actually died did not lessen my experience of grief. Just because an event is only real to the person suffering psychosis does not make it less devastating.
I know what the lonely grief of the imaginary feels like. The grief is real because the love was real. For my daughter, the belief was magical, the relationship imaginary. But the love was real.
In "The Velveteen Rabbit," the eponymous ur-stuffie of imagination and magical belief came alive -- became real -- because he was loved so fiercely. Isn't that what we all want? To see that our love can transform something imaginary into something real? That our love can transform the ephemeral into something permanent? That love can change the mortal into the eternal?
That, of course, isn't how stuffed animals work. But a stuffie is not the same as the love one has for that stuffie, or for anyone.
"Love, that thing we have great difficulty even describing, is the only truly real and lasting experience of life," Elisabeth Kubler-Ross, the 20th century's great expert in grief, wrote. "It is the only gift in life that is not lost. Ultimately, it is the only thing we can really give."
No love is ever wasted. Even if the stuffies never were alive. Even if the stillborn baby never existed. Even if the love is unrequited. Even if the love leads to heartbreak. Even if the relationship doesn't last. Even if it ends in pain, betrayal or death. Even if the objects of love were imaginary.
The experience of love has changed you, created you.
Mary's love and loss of her stuffed friends turned her into the teenager she is today, just as my love and grief for an imaginary lost baby created the mother I am today. The little boy who loved the Velveteen Rabbit lost him, too. But both the boy and his love survived scarlet fever. The boy got to grow up.
I wasn't wrong about what would happen next. It took Mary a few months to figure out what she wanted to make: slime. Buckets and buckets of slime. The coffee table, once a house for stuffies, became a lab table for the precise mixing of glue, Borax and glitter.
She tried out for the middle school play and inhabited that role in the way only a child who played pretend until the fifth grade could. She didn't take up knitting, but she took a sewing class at the library. She joined our church's girls' choir and began a serious study of music theory and voice.
There are times I sit in the pews looking at 20 girls in purple robes singing Faure's "Requiem" and Bach's cantatas and wonder how in the world my child could make a sound so loud and pure and piercing that it feels as though both the stone walls of the cathedral and my own body will crumble as it goes through us.
She makes things. Wonderful things.
Her stuffies never did come back to life, but something remains of the life they once lived. Grief means you remember. Maybe in this way, grief gives us courage to continue living after loss, to move into the next part of life, to create something new. We do not have to lose the memory of a thing, a time, a person we have lost. Grief means we get to remember.
Love and loss create us, and grief allows us to embrace that new creation. If no love is ever wasted, then no grief is either.
In the end, Mary didn't give her stuffies away. She kept the special ones, which is to say, she kept all of them. They, along with my son's Legos, my husband's "Star Wars" figures, and Emmeline, my Cabbage Patch doll, are in the attic now.
The night we put them away, Mary went back to retrieve one to sleep with. Over the years, a few more have re-emerged to sit on her bed, where she holds them at night. They may no longer come alive, but the memory of the life they once lived and the love she once poured into them still exists. The love that she, or anyone, pours into the world will always exist.
Kerry Egan, a writer in Columbia, S.C., is the author of "On Living."
Modern Love can be reached at modernlove@nytimes.com.
To find previous Modern Love essays, Tiny Love Stories and podcast episodes, visit our archive.
Want more from Modern Love? Watch the TV series; sign up for the newsletter; or listen to the podcast on iTunes, Spotify or Google Play. We also have swag at the NYT Store and two books, "Modern Love: True Stories of Love, Loss, and Redemption" and "Tiny Love Stories: True Tales of Love in 100 Words or Less."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST6.

Subject: Grief; Animals

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/style/modern-love-no-love-is-ever-wasted.html

Title: No Love Is Wasted, Even on Those With Googly Eyes:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

column: Modern Love

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847635

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/no-love-is-wasted-even-on-those-with-googly-eyes/docview/2785847635/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cautionary Climate Tales That Give People Pause When They Press Play

Author: Wallis, Stephen

Publication info: Wallis, Stephen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cautionary-climate-tales-that-give-people-pause/docview/2785843411/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
A young woman is distressed. She seems unwell. Her body was “never designed to cope with the extremes of a shifting climate,” a soothing voice informs us. As a dreamy soundtrack plays in the background, she arrives at “Spa Sybarite,” where futuristic stone treatment pods hover on stilts above a desert landscape.
“Spa Sybarite” is a three-minute film by Joshua Ashish Dawson, a 32-year-old Angeleno who describes himself as a “world builder” and much of his work as “speculative climate futures.” Trained as an architect, he uses digital design tools and the language of cinema to create environments and scenarios that, he said, “ask viewers to question their assumptions about the world they live in.”
At “Spa Sybarite,” the voice-over goes on, guests are offered “an assortment of scientifically tested customized treatments to help your body condition itself to the environmental despair that faces our planet.” Soaking in an outdoor tub rinses skin “of the deposits of wildfire ash,” and healthy meals are “customized to your prior nutritional accessibility.” There is also “solastalgia therapy,” where digital visualization artists create an immersive 3D simulation of your wildfire-destroyed home for you to visit.
The conceit for “Spa Sybarite” is both slightly absurd and eminently believable. Elements almost feel like satire, something Dawson plays with, but his ultimate aim is for a kind of “hyperrealism,” he said of the film, noting that the idea of a climate spa is not very far from reality. “Wellness is a multitrillion-dollar industry,” he said, “and it’s only a matter of time before someone takes the obvious opportunity to market wellness as the solution to climate-based illness, the biggest global health threat of our time.”
Having grown up in Bangalore, India, he is sensitive to how climate change disproportionally affects low-income communities and communities of color. His invention of a white, presumably wealthy protagonist in “Spa Sybarite” raises the question of who has access to wellness, not to mention basic heath care. He sees the luxury spa as a product of disaster capitalism, “where these infrastructures of care are used to make a profit off of a crisis.”
Dawson has made three other films, ranging from four to seven minutes, with related themes: In “Cáustico , ” it is the politics of water privatization; in “Loa’s Promise ,” the ecological and human impacts of unregulated resource extraction; and in “Denervation,” the threats posed by counterfeiting in an unscrupulous pharmaceutical industry. Concern with the environment and health underlie everything.
He traces his career path to his childhood in India in the 1990s, when two of his loves were Lego and movies. His father is an English-speaking Protestant Christian who works as an interior designer, and his mother is a Hindu civil engineer whose first language is Marathi. The family spoke English at home, and both Dawson and his sister attended convent schools that had been established by the British.
“The influx of Hollywood at that point in time in Bangalore really was something that we grabbed onto and were excited about,” he recounted. Even today, he said, movies are a big part of how his family connects.
He went on to study at the RV College of Architecture in Bangalore, where he received a bachelor’s degree in architecture. While in school, he interned for several months in the Ahmedabad office of Balkrishna Vithaldas Doshi, India’s first Pritzker Prize-winning architect.
Doshi, who died in January, worked with Le Corbusier and Louis Kahn, two influential figures in modern architecture, and he was known for adapting the International Style to a community-minded modernist approach and regional focus that reflected India’s culture and climate.
“I learned a lot from him in terms of how he used mythmaking and storytelling very much in his design process,” Dawson said. “And it was the start of something that was sort of going off in my head.”
After graduating from architecture school, he received his license to practice in India. But he lacked experience with digital tools used for design and fabrication. That led him to enroll in the master’s program in advanced architectural studies at the University of Southern California, where he met another key mentor — Alex McDowell, a film production designer.
McDowell has had Hollywood credits on “Fight Club,” “Minority Report” and “Man of Steel,” among others. His studio, Experimental Design, creates future-gazing story worlds for corporate clients, educational institutions and cultural organizations. He is also on the faculty of the USC School of Cinematic Arts and is director of the school’s World Building Media Lab, where students collaborate on immersive storytelling.
“What’s exciting is when students come in from completely different disciplines with this very open-minded approach to storytelling,” McDowell said. “And Joshua was one of relatively few who really pushed against the edges of his discipline. He came into class as an architect, very open and excited, I think, by the idea of entertainment media. He came in ready to break down the walls.”
Dawson’s graduation project was his first short, “Cáustico .” Set in the year 2036, in a computer-generated city of anonymous steel-and-glass structures, the film envisions a future where dwindling fresh water supplies are controlled by a fictional company called Turquoise, whose depletion of underground aquifers causes massive sinkholes, while some of the most privileged citizens start moving into a subterranean lower city to be closer to the water. For the audio, Dawson used snippets of actual news reports on climate and water issues from 2014 and 2015, reminding us that such a future might not be so far away.
Since then, he has turned out films at a measured pace while working day jobs. He spent 4 1/2 years as a designer at Price Architects and HKS (the two firms merged in 2019), and for the past two years, he has been a narrative visualization specialist at IBI Group, producing dynamic 3D models that help planners study the impact potential infrastructure and development projects will have on future urban environments.
Dawson said he eventually wants to create real-world spaces. For now, he remains focused on the films he thinks of as a critical design practice, taking inspiration from ’60s and ’70s radical architecture collectives such as Superstudio and Archigram, which rejected building in favor of exploring experimental concepts in films, artworks and manifestoes that challenged the status quo.
Funded with grants and his own savings, each short film has involved a handful of partners. Some he has known since his days at USC, including Ashton Rae, a cinematographer, who described Dawson as “an incredibly collaborative director” with “a clear and punctuated vision.” She noted that in addition to making films “about real-world issues that affect marginalized individuals,” Dawson prioritizes having a diverse crew on set and for postproduction work.
Dawson said his own identity as an immigrant of color is an asset in his work, giving him “a different perspective on issues that locals can’t see or see in biased ways.” As a Christian and the product of an interfaith marriage in India, he described himself as a microminority who “always felt like an outsider.”
Familiar with the religious, gender and caste-based discrimination that is widespread in India, he is still learning about racism in the United States, where he said immigrants are often expected to feel grateful just for being here. Based on his name, people often assume he is white before they meet him, which can cut both ways.
“Since the killing of George Floyd, there definitely has been an increase in the kind of space making for people of color to be given a place at the table,” he said. “But it can be a little bit like a quota, like tokenism, with one spot or two spots that all the marginalized groups of people within their discipline have to compete for.”
His hope is to see more people like him doing the kind of work he loves. “I never had a road map set by someone who looked like me, who paved this sort of interdisciplinary path like the one I’m trying to forge,” he said.
Dawson’s next project is a feature film that will incorporate cultural references tied to his identity as an India-born designer. It started as a visual thought experiment, a re-imagining of the historic Bradbury Building in Los Angeles — specifically, its soaring interior court with a glass ceiling and ornate Victorian ironwork — as an ancient Indian stepwell. The fictional hybrid structure will serve as a setting for a story about an Indian American detective who threads through its spaces as she investigates a murder.
While Dawson was working on the screenplay this winter, drought-stricken Los Angeles was being battered by heavy storms, with most of the rainfall washing into the ocean because of insufficient drainage and catchment infrastructure. His project is a provocation to city planners to look to India’s stepwells — subterranean structures that are admired as aesthetic as well as engineering marvels, which for centuries provided reserves of clean water for drinking and bathing — for creative inspiration, if not literal solutions.
“The past can teach us a lot, not just in terms of how water histories are written but also how water is controlled by the state,” Dawson said.
He attributed his decision to weave his cultural background into his work to finding his voice as a designer and storyteller, but he added that it probably also has something to do with an increased openness to diverse cultural narratives.
“Personally,” he said, “I like to roll with this idea that it’s a beautiful synchronization between the two.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Design; Architecture; Collaboration; Storytelling; Personal profiles; Architects; Climate change

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Architects

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US; India

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Le Corbusier; Kahn, Louis I; Archigram; United States; Great Britain; Ahmedabad (India); Dawson, Joshua Ashish; Superstudio; Hks; Los Angeles (Calif); California; University Of Southern California; Bangalore (India); India; Draper, Dorothy; Culture (Arts); Caste Systems; Infrastructure (Public Works); Relocation Of Business; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Minorities; Immigration And Emigration; Indian Americans; 3 D Devices And Effects; Careers And Professions; Income; Textiles; Area Planning And Renewal; Corporate Social Responsibility; Historic Buildings And Sites; Shutdowns (Institutional); Age, Chronological; Disasters And Emergencies; Design; Water; Colleges And Universities; Pritzker Prize; Wildfires; English Language; International Relations; Discrimination; Architecture; Movies

Title: Cautionary Climate Tales That Give People Pause When They Press Play

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-11 @ 21:47

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785843411

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cautionary-climate-tales-that-give-people-pause/docview/2785843411/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Green Materials, Builders Turn to Hemp: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Williams, Kevin

Publication info: Williams, Kevin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/green-materials-builders-turn-hemp/docview/2780625958/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hemp blocks are costlier than traditional building products, but they help address environmental issues and can shave 20 to 30 percent off a typical construction schedule.
As ballroom dancers twirl, and competitive Ping-Pong players swing their paddles in the French town of Croissy-Beaubourg, they are doing so in what some describe as the future of building construction.
When the Pierre Chevet Sports Hall opened last year in the tiny municipality on the outskirts of Paris, it was the first commercial project in France constructed almost exclusively of hemp blocks. And many hemp enthusiasts predict this is just the beginning.
"It was the first time for everyone," said Sonia Sifflet, lead architect on the project for Lemoal Lemoal, a boutique architecture firm in Paris. She said the sports center was a collaboration between the architects, material manufacturers, construction companies and town leaders. And now that they all know how to complete a hemp block project, Ms. Sifflet said, she expects to see many more in France.
"In five years, it will be normal to use hemp blocks," she said. "There is no limit to what can be built."
Interest in hemp as a viable substitute for construction material is growing as developers seek greener building options. Hemp can be used in block form, as it was in the building of the sports center, or poured like traditional concrete using hempcrete, a combination of lime, hemp fibers and a chemical binder. Hemp panels can also be used.
"There is a new focus on hemp in the United States; there is a tremendous opportunity," said Petros Sideris, an assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering at Texas A&M University, which recently received a $ 3.74 million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to research and develop 3-D printed hemp buildings. The entire supply chain is being studied, from growing hemp to using it in construction, he said.
Hemp is already used in a variety of industrial products, including rope, textiles and biofuel. But hemp construction is hampered by high costs and a supply chain that is not fully formed. And proponents must overcome resistance to a product that is often mistakenly tied to recreational drug use.
Advocates say hemp offers many environmental benefits that builders and policymakers seek when creating a carbon-neutral product that is also resistant to fire, mold and weather.
There are other benefits, Ms. Sifflet said. For instance, the hemp blocks require no special skills to assemble, reducing the number of workers needed on site. "They go together like Legos," she said.
The simplicity allows for speed: A building constructed from ready-to-use hemp blocks can chop 20 to 30 percent off the typical production schedule, with no need for cement joints or the drying time required with traditional concrete blocks.
Hemp block construction allowed developers of the sports center in Croissy-Beaubourg to squeeze out every square inch to maximize space, Ms. Sifflet said. Using hemp blocks reduced the thickness of the walls, she said, because no insulation or finishing layers were needed, which freed up about 100 square feet for use.
And although using hemp blocks pushed the material costs 30 to 40 percent higher than traditional cinder blocks, the quicker production schedule allowed the firm to wrap up faster than usual, she continued, and the environmental gains offset some of the higher material costs.
"We did not do this because it is cheaper, but so it could be relevant and innovative in building public facilities with new material like hemp," Ms. Sifflet said.
But hemp's reputation as counterculture cannabis has been difficult to shake, slowing its acceptance in construction circles.
Rachel Berry is experimenting with growing hemp fibers on her windswept Illinois farm. As the founder of the Illinois Hemp Growers Association, she focuses on the plant itself and building out a viable supply chain from there.
"There are a lot of moving parts: growers, processors, manufacturers and companies using the hemp," Ms. Berry said. But the first step is getting farmers interested, and hemp's cannabis connection can cause them to tune out. "The stigma of cannabis still looms here," she said.
Still, its recent approval for use in single and multifamily housing in the United States should increase hemp's profile and pave the way for skyscrapers and warehouses to be made with hemp building materials.
That future is already taking shape elsewhere.
In Cape Town, the first such hemp skyscraper, called 84 Harrington, is already rising from the ground and, at 12 stories, will be the tallest structure in the world that incorporates largely hemp construction. Because of its load-bearing limitations, a traditional frame is still needed, but all of the walls are made from hemp blocks.
The building culminates decades of interest in hemp construction by its owner, Duncan Parker, a co-founder and the chief executive of Hemporium, a hemp producer in Cape Town. He said that the cost of building 84 Harrington was higher because hemp had to be imported from England, but that the first hemp cultivation licenses in South Africa were issued in 2022 and the first crops would be harvested next year, allowing for blocks to be made wholly in South Africa.
"We are building an industry," he said, adding that it will take a couple of years for the supply issues to sort themselves out, but that once they do, hemp will be a construction staple.
The hemp skyscraper provided a fantastic hybrid between timber frame and masonry, said Wolf Wolf, the architect of the building. His firm, Wolf + Wolf Architects, is ready to move on a housing development with 25,000 homes made of hemp blocks.
"The critical mass is there now; we have crossed that threshold," Mr. Wolf said, adding that his firm may have handled one or two hemp projects a year in past years but that now almost all major developers are asking for proposals incorporating hemp. "With climate change, people are taking it seriously," he said.
In North America, others are looking to hemp as a potential panacea.
"Hemp is groundbreaking," said Don Redden, chief executive of Ulmus Development, which is building a self-storage site made from hemp blocks in downtown Kelowna, a city of 130,000 people in British Columbia's wine country.
Because of costs, home sizes in Canada have gradually been shrinking, which has driven up demand for storage spaces, Mr. Redden said. But a storage building is often viewed as a valueless blight, especially in an urban core.
"Usually a self-storage facility doesn't look good, doesn't add anything to the neighborhood," he said. "So we wanted to build a building that would fit in."
To help the five-story building become an asset in the neighborhood, it will include shared office spaces on the first floor. Mr. Redden said each hemp block would sequester about 13 pounds of carbon, which is more than what is expended in the making and shipping of the blocks. The building's carbon equation tilts negative, he said, because it will actually draw carbon from the environment.
As hemp is catching on in other countries, builders, researchers and even hemp growers in the United States are studying its developments.
Multistory buildings still need a support system, but hempcrete can be used for the bulk of a building, said Mr. Sideris, the Texas A&M professor, who has material specialists, architects, structural engineers, material life span experts, faculty members and graduate students studying the best ways to use hemp in construction. He added that the demand for a sustainable building would rapidly propel hemp into other industrial and construction uses, and help make the material more economical to use.
"Once we have a clear demand, the market will self-regulate, and the price of hemp blocks and hempcrete will come down," he said.
Photograph The Pierre Chevet Sports Hall, in Croissy-Beaubourg on the outskirts of Paris, is the first commercial project in France built almost exclusively with construction blocks made from hemp.; Hemp, which is often mistakenly tied to recreational drug use, is a carbon-neutral product that is also resistant to fire, mold and weather. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); In the Croissy-Beaubourg project, designed by Lemoal Lemoal, a boutique architecture firm in Paris, hemp blocks reduced the thickness of the walls and, because no insulation was needed, freed up about 100 square feet. Right, 84 Harrington in Cape Town during construction last year. At 12 stories, it will be the world's tallest structure using largely hemp construction. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SHARNE BLOEM/WOLF + WOLF ARCHITECTS) This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Construction; Hemp; Costs; Carbon; Drug use; Supply chains; Architecture; High rise buildings; Site planning; Architects; Marijuana

Business indexing term: Subject: Costs Supply chains Architecture Architects

Location: Texas; South Africa; United States--US; Illinois; France

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/21/business/hemp-construction-buildings.html

Title: For Green Materials, Builders Turn to Hemp:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 1, 2023

column: Square Feet

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2780625958

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/green-materials-builders-turn-hemp/docview/2780625958/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Busy Furniture Hustlers of Silicon Valley: [Correction]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/busy-furniture-hustlers-silicon-valley/docview/2779829695/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As tech companies cut costs and move to remote work, their left-behind office furniture has become part of a booming trade.
Brandi Susewitz touched the curved stitching on a pair of bright red Arne Jacobsen Egg Chairs and announced they were worth around $ 5,000 each. The chairs were in pristine condition, perched in the reception area of the software company Sitecore's office in downtown San Francisco.
Trisha Murcia, Sitecore's workplace manager, said she was likely the only person who ever sat on them. "It's really sad," she said. "They opened this office in 2018 and then Covid happened."
Ms. Murcia led Ms. Susewitz around Sitecore's office, pointing out bar stools that had never been used, 90-inch flat screens, shiny conference room tables and accent chairs from the retailer Blu Dot. The whiteboard walls, outfitted with markers and erasers, were spotless. And rows upon rows of 30-by-60-inch, height-adjustable Knoll desks with Herman Miller Aeron chairs sat collecting dust.
Ms. Susewitz measured and snapped photos, identifying designer brands and models. Her office furniture resale business, Reseat, would take all of it, she declared. "We can find a home for this," she said. "We have time."
Ms. Susewitz, who started Reseat in 2020, is one of an increasing number of behind-the-scenes specialists in the Bay Area who are carving out a piece of the great office furniture reshuffling. There are professional liquidators, Craigslist flippers and start-ups spouting buzzwords like "circular economy." And a few guys with warehouses full of really nice chairs.
All of them are capitalizing on a wave of tech companies that are drastically shrinking their physical footprints in the wake of the pandemic-induced shift to remote work and the recent economic slowdown.
Nowhere is the furniture glut stronger than in San Francisco. Tech workers have been slowest to return to the office in the city, where commercial vacancy rates jumped to 28 percent last year, up from 4 percent in 2019, according to the real estate firm CBRE. Occupancy in San Francisco in late January was 4 percent below the average of the top 10 U.S. cities, according to the building security firm Kastle. And companies of all sizes, including PayPal, Block and Yelp, are giving up their expensive downtown headquarters or downsizing their office space.
Add to that the tech industry's recent U-turn from optimistic hypergrowth to fear and penny pinching. That has led tech giants such as Google and Salesforce, along with smaller companies like DoorDash and Wish, to carry out widespread layoffs, cutting more than 88,000 workers in the Bay Area over the last year, according to Layoffs.fyi.
Some start-ups have abruptly gone under, including the flying car company Kittyhawk, the autonomous vehicle start-up Argo AI and the interior design start-up Modsy. Others have slashed spending, starting with their dusty, rarely used offices full of designer furniture.
Last month, Twitter held a public auction for some of its furniture, hawking dry erase boards, conference tables and a three-foot blue statue of its bird logo. The social media company, which is owned by Elon Musk, at one point stopped paying the rent on some of its office leases.
Martin Pichinson, a founder of Sherwood Partners, an advisory firm that helps restructure failing start-ups, said he was staffing up to handle increased demand. Today's reckoning was not as severe as that of the dot-com bust in the early 2000s when dozens of tech companies collapsed, he said, but "everyone is acting as if businesses are falling apart."
That's led to a lot of expendable furniture, much of it hewing to a specific youthful aesthetic of Instagrammable bright colors and midcentury modern shapes. That look, complemented by plant walls of succulents and kombucha on tap, was a hallmark of the tech talent wars over the past two decades, telegraphing a company's success and sophistication.
Then there's the Aeron chairs. The $ 1,805 black roller-wheel desk chairs are a closely-watched barometer of tech excesses. Their sleek design makes them a work of art, according to the Museum of Modern Art. And in the tech industry, where workers are used to being pampered while chained to their desks, they are ubiquitous.
When internet companies imploded in 2000, liquidators filled their warehouses with the "dot-com thrones." Now any whiff of empty Aerons piling up conjures memories of that slump and sets off fears that another is imminent.
The Bay Area's Craigslist currently has gobs of the chairs for sale, photographed in warehouses, lined up in corners of conference rooms and wrapped in plastic outside a storage unit. Some are selling for as cheap as a few hundred bucks.
The listings are a reminder: Silicon Valley is a place of booms and busts, with enterprising hustlers who see nothing but opportunity, even in the rubble.
A trail of Dropbox furniture
For furniture specialists, it all starts with supplies from tech companies like Dropbox.
In 2019, the file storage company moved into its 735,000-square-foot headquarters in San Francisco. Its 15-year lease was the largest in the city's history at the time. Dropbox's old office was rented to other companies, and last year, a cache of furniture -- futuristic-chic chairs, couches and tables -- from that office made its way to a liquidator.
The inventory included several emerald green velvet Jean Royère-style Polar Bear chairs that cost roughly $ 10,000 to custom make in 2016, according to their maker, Classic Design LA.
Three of those chairs sold to Tenzin Norbu, a furniture reseller in Richmond, Calif., who paid around $ 1,000 for each. Mr. Norbu, 25, started buying and selling high-end furniture on online marketplaces early in the pandemic, when people were eager to redecorate the homes they were stuck inside and stymied by supply chain delays on furniture.
Since then, his business, called Enliven, has expanded to include a van, three employees, a 4,000-square-foot warehouse and annual revenue in the mid-six figures.
The tech talent wars, with companies competing to out-perk one another with the fanciest offices, were good for designer furniture. The retreat from that battle has been just as good for resellers.
Last year, Mr. Norbu scored some lounge chairs and couches from Fast, a payments start-up that collapsed in the spring. He also paid "tens of thousands" of dollars, he said, to fill a 20-foot truck of still-in-the-box furniture that WeWork, whose valuation had plummeted, had kept in storage since 2019. The trove included dining chairs, lamps, couches and a chunky red Bollo armchair by the Swedish designer Fogia.
On a recent tour of his warehouse, Mr. Norbu pointed out a pair of never-used felt poufs from a start-up, two glass coffee tables from Delta Air Lines, some gray lounge chairs that were "probably from Google" and plants from a venture capital firm.
Mr. Norbu aims to target more tech start-ups as his business expands. The companies are always acquiring or shedding furniture, since they tend to grow quickly and shut down abruptly. Many of his buyers also work in tech, he said, which means they could find themselves eating dinner at the very conference table they once gathered around for meetings.
Last year, Mr. Norbu sold one of the Polar Bear chairs that had been owned by Dropbox to a fellow furniture flipper, Nate Morgan, for $ 1,400. Mr. Morgan started trading furniture in the fall after he was laid off from a business development job at Meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram. He said he quickly discovered the Bay Area contains "crazy pockets of massive amounts of furniture."
Mr. Morgan's business, Reclamation, recently worked with a wealthy tech entrepreneur who had bought a second San Francisco home to live in while his main home was being renovated. The entrepreneur furnished the 4,000-square-foot second home with new goods from Restoration Hardware. Nine months later, when the entrepreneur moved into his main home, Mr. Morgan bought all of the second home's furniture for 10 percent of its retail price.
Mr. Morgan, 44, said the furniture business was a welcome shift from the 15 years he spent working in tech. "It feels really good to be building a local community business that's tied to this geographic area," he said.
Mr. Morgan later sold the Polar Bear chair that had been at Dropbox for a profit to an interior designer in Los Angeles, who then sold it to a client in the Hollywood Hills. From the liquidator, to Mr. Norbu, to Mr. Morgan, to the interior designer, each person in the chain made a little money.
Dropbox declined to comment. During the pandemic, the company shifted to remote work and made plans to sublet 80 percent of its headquarters. Takers have been slow; the company recently lowered its expected rate, pushed out its target for finding tenants by two years and recorded a $ 175 million charge on its real estate holdings in 2022.
Dropbox's remaining space has been converted into what the company calls a "studio" instead of an "office," designed for meetings and "touchdown spots," or cafes and libraries for people to sit, chat and work briefly. There are no more desks.
'It was a ghost town'
Ms. Susewitz, 49, has worked in office furniture since 1997, when she became a customer service representative at Lindsay-Ferrari, a Bay Area furniture dealer now known as One Workplace.
The furniture industry's wastefulness always bugged her, she said, with companies discarding durable, commercial-grade items that were built to last decades every time they moved. Companies waited until the last minute to deal with the furniture, she said, increasing the odds it wound up in the trash.
In the late 1990s dot-com boom, Ms. Susewitz created a business plan to build an online marketplace for used office furniture. She abandoned it when eBay took off, thinking the company would eventually solve the problem. "But that never happened," she said.
Over the next two decades, she worked in sales and business development, outfitting Bay Area businesses with goods from "the big five" of workplace furniture -- Steelcase, MillerKnoll, Haworth, Allsteel and Teknion.
When the pandemic hit, Ms. Susewitz's livelihood of new office furniture screeched to a halt. She watched with disgust as companies tossed out barely used desks and chairs.
"Perfectly good, brand-new furniture is just being carted off to landfills," she said.
So she created Reseat to help businesses liquidate furniture. The company uses an inventory management system that tracks the items' "life cycles" so it can quickly share the specifications for the furniture, making the goods easier to sell. Given enough time, sellers can expect 20 cents on the dollar for their furniture, she said. Reseat, which has 14 employees, has worked with more than 100 companies and sold more than eight million pounds of furniture.
"Our goal is to sell it standing," Ms. Susewitz said. "Once it ends up in a warehouse, it loses value and ends up collecting dust."
In December, Reseat was hired to liquidate more than 900 work stations, 96 office chairs, 40 work benches, 24 sofas and 84 file cabinets at an office in Santa Clara, Calif. Analog Devices, the semiconductor company that had moved out, hardly used the space during the pandemic. But Pure Storage, the data storage company moving in, didn't want those pieces. Reseat had just four weeks to sell the items.
"It just ate me up inside," Ms. Susewitz said. That she found buyers in time was "a miracle," she added.
Pure Storage said it was reusing a "substantial" amount of Analog Devices' furniture, including desk chairs and conference room items, but it planned to install its existing desks "to better suit how Pure employees work in a more open office environment." An Analog Devices representative declined to comment.
Ms. Susewitz was excited about the furniture at Sitecore because the company had contacted Reseat months ahead of its move, setting it up to easily find a home for its goods. At Sitecore's office, she showed off how to identify the size of an Aeron chair. Each one has a set of plastic bumps hidden on its back. Two bumps indicate the most common size, a "B."
There were 16 size Bs around a wooden conference table that Sitecore had built using wood from a houseboat that was in Sausalito, Calif. In the center, a basin filled with Legos was flanked by the universal emblems of the pandemic: a bottle of Purell and a package of Clorox wipes.
Before the pandemic, Sitecore was expanding its space so rapidly that it had leased another half of a floor in its office tower. But "once the pandemic hit, it was a ghost town," said Brad Hamilton, the company's head of real estate and facilities.
Sitecore plans to downgrade to 30 desks from 170. "We're paying an outrageous amount of money for a floor that nobody uses," he said.
Toward the end of the office tour, Ms. Susewitz surveyed Sitecore's empty kitchen area, outfitted with a Ping-Pong table, a Ms. Pac-Man machine and two curved, six-foot privacy coves. Ms. Susewitz said she would take everything, except for the plates and silverware.
Chair influencers
One result of the furniture trading is a lot more people logging into Zoom meetings from very nice chairs -- and not only in the Bay Area.
In January, Gilad Rom, a software engineer in Los Angeles, decided to upgrade his work station at home. He searched Craigslist and found a seller with 500 Aeron chairs -- apparently acquired from a SiriusXM office that had shifted to remote work -- in Culver City, Calif.
When he posted a picture of the chairs gathered in a room, their black foam arms intertwined, the reaction was explosive. Some people wanted to score their own cheap Aeron. Many more wanted to reminisce about what the empty chairs represented -- corporate excess gone awry.
"I think it brought back a lot of memories," Mr. Rom, 43, said. "Flashbacks from 2008 and 2000."
The seller, a secondhand furniture shop called Wannasofa, was so overwhelmed with calls after Mr. Rom's tweet that the store gave him a 25 percent discount. "Apparently I'm a chair influencer now," he said.
The reaction also gave him an idea.
"Maybe I should build an app that helps people find cheap luxury furniture," he said. "Maybe there's something there."
Photograph Top, Brandi Susewitz at the office of the software company Sitecore in San Francisco, scouting furniture to resell through her company, Reseat. Above, Sitecore's kitchen area, including a forlorn-looking Ping-Pong table at right. Below, Ms. Susewitz on the hunt and examining a Herman Miller Aeron chair as Trisha Murcia, Sitecore's workplace manager (bottom, at left), looked on. (BU6); Above, in Richmond, Calif., a furniture showroom belonging to Enliven, a resale business founded by Tenzin Norbu, top right. Below, more views of the showroom, with Mr. Norbu at bottom. The emerald green velvet Jean Royère-style Polar Bear chair, below right, cost roughly $ 10,000 to custom make in 2016, according to its maker, Classic Design LA; Mr. Norbu bought three for about $ 1,000 each. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Entrepreneurs; Office furniture; Warehouses; Startups; Layoffs; Pandemics; Social networks; Interior design; Corporate headquarters

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs Warehouses Startups Layoffs Social networks Corporate headquarters

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

Title: The Busy Furniture Hustlers of Silicon Valley:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779829695

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/busy-furniture-hustlers-silicon-valley/docview/2779829695/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Hard Is It to Paint Like Vermeer? TV Contestants Find Out.

Author: Siegal, Nina

Publication info: Siegal, Nina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-hard-is-paint-like-vermeer-tv-contestants/docview/2779242133/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
AMSTERDAM — Here’s the assignment: Re-create a painting that doesn’t exist, based only on a description jotted down centuries ago. And: Make it look like a Vermeer.
That’s the starting bell for a Dutch reality TV show, in which two professional painters and dozens of amateur artists compete to reinvent the lost works of 17th-century master Johannes Vermeer. The results are judged by Vermeer experts from the Rijksmuseum, the Dutch national museum in Amsterdam, and from the Mauritshuis, a collection of old masters in The Hague.
The show, “The New Vermeer” (“De Nieuwe Vermeer”), which began Feb. 12, is timed to coincide with a blockbuster exhibition of the painter’s work at the Rijksmuseum, featuring the largest collection of his works ever shown. But the hourlong TV show is aimed in part at viewers who might not feel comfortable walking into a museum.
The mashup of highbrow culture and mass entertainment has been an instant sensation in the Netherlands, with 1.3 million viewers (in a country of 17 million) tuning in for the first episode. The six-episode series ends March 19.
“This program scores better than most of the other programs we broadcast, documentaries and drama series included,” said Jan Slagter, chief executive of Omroep MAX, which broadcasts the series.
“What’s important is that it’s about art and culture but that it’s made in a very accessible way,” he noted.
The success of “The New Vermeer” reflects surging interest in the artist during the Rijksmuseum run, said Pieter Roelofs, the exhibition’s curator and one of the TV show’s judges.
“The idea that people from all around the globe are arriving for this exhibition makes the Dutch understand that this is really something special,” Roelofs added. Vermeer “is beloved, and now people want to know more.”
The museum sold out the more than 450,000 tickets for the Vermeer show in less than four days — a response that Roelofs compared with a pop concert or sporting event. Roelofs said the museum was working on finding ways to release more tickets, either by extending opening hours or by allowing more visitors through the doors for each time slot. Additional tickets will be released March 6, and they’re likely to be snatched up quickly.
Those lucky enough to get in will see 28 Vermeer paintings, about three-quarters of the 35 or so works that still exist. It is known that Vermeer painted at least six more paintings, which have been lost. Some of them haven’t been seen since the 17th century, and one was stolen from a museum decades ago and never recovered.
The premise of “The New Vermeer” is for contemporary artists to bring those works back to life.
There are two categories of artists who compete. For each episode, producers have chosen two professional painters, who go head-to-head to create a painting that looks like something Vermeer might have painted. They were given four months to complete the task, with guidance from art experts and curators who provided them with tips and clues about Vermeer’s painting techniques, materials and props he used.
Each episode also features four amateur artists who create modern interpretations of the missing work, competing in the “free category.” They can work in any style they wish, and the resulting images are judged on how well they reflect the spirit of Vermeer’s work.
Two artworks — one from each category — are selected as winners in each episode. The judges are Roelofs and Abbie Vandivere, a Mauritshuis paintings conservator who has spent years studying that museum’s most famous item, “Girl with a Pearl Earring.”
We know about five of the missing Vermeer works only because they were described in inventories or auction records from around the time of the artist’s death, in 1675, Vandivere said.
Two famous urban scenes painted by Vermeer still exist, for example: “View of Delft” and “The Little Street,” both currently on display in Amsterdam. But a 17th-century auction catalog notes that he painted a third, described only as “a view of some houses in Delft.” In Episode 2, the contestants attempted to re-create this work, which they referred to as “The Second Little Street.”
Another Vermeer painting, “The Concert,” hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston until 1990, when it was stolen in one of the world’s largest unsolved art heists. It has never been recovered. In Episode 4, artists will try to re-create that work based on photographs.
Slagter, the broadcasting executive, said focusing on Vermeer’s missing paintings allowed viewers to engage their imaginations.
“Everyone who watches the show, young and old, can use their own fantasy to imagine a painting that doesn’t exist,” he said.
Part of the fun of the show is cheering on the amateurs, who hail from across the Netherlands and work in different styles, using stained glass, printmaking and even Lego. To re-create the Vermeer street scene, one artist used small pieces of driftwood; another arranged knickknacks and childhood toys into a three-dimensional assemblage.
The weekly live TV broadcasts are supplemented with a podcast, an online gallery of all the works featured on the show, and an invitation to viewers to send in their own contemporary interpretations of Vermeer, which are shared on the show’s website.
The six winning amateur artworks from each episode will be displayed at the Museum Prinsenhof, which is housed in a former church in Delft, Vermeer’s hometown. The winning paintings created by the professional artists will be exhibited at the Mauritshuis.
Nard Kwast, a painter from the central Dutch city of Apeldoorn, won the professional category in the first episode with an oil painting of a domestic scene that Roelofs said reminded him of Vermeer’s famous “The Milkmaid.”
Vandivere commented when judging the work: “What’s really Vermeer-like in this picture is the light, and you’ve done that so beautifully.”
In an interview, Kwast said he had been fascinated by 17th-century painting techniques since the age of 8. He now works as a painter who produces pieces in the style of the 17th-century masters, creating replicas of paintings by Rembrandt and Ferdinand Bol, for example, on commission for private clients.
Kwast said he couldn’t really imagine a higher honor than to see his contemporary painting hang alongside the old masters.
“It wasn’t my neighbor who was saying my work was good. It was experts from the Rijksmuseum and Mauritshuis,” he said. And to have his work compared with Vermeer’s?
“This is the biggest compliment you can possibly get,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Television programs; Artists; Painters; Art theft; Museums; Painting; Art exhibits

Location: Netherlands; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Entertainment; Arts; Gardner, Isabella Stewart (1840 1924); Gardner, Isabella Stewart, Museum; Stewart Gardner Museum; Broadcast; Lego Group; Delft (Netherlands); Amsterdam (Netherlands); Hague (Netherlands); Boston (Mass); Mauritshuis; Rijksmuseum; Netherlands; Van Rijn, Rembrandt Harmenszoon; Vermeer, Jan; Auctions; Box Office Sales; Finances; Dutch Language; Ratings (Audience Measurement); Art; Reality Television; Museums; Documentary Films And Programs; Contests And Prizes

Title: How Hard Is It to Paint Like Vermeer? TV Contestants Find Out.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 23, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-23 @ 19:07

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779242133

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-hard-is-paint-like-vermeer-tv-contestants/docview/2779242133/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Little Houses on the Horizon: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Lasky, Julie

Publication info: Lasky, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/little-houses-on-horizon/docview/2775347533/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At the International Builders' Show, exhibitors offered mini prefab houses, kitchens 'like Swiss Army knives' and other strategies for dealing with a constrained market.
A tug of war is being waged over the size of the American home.
Pulling in one direction are the forces of expansion: the well-financed dream for many of a sprawling single-family house; the NIMBY activism that prevents the incursions of multifamily buildings into low-density neighborhoods; and -- not least, in the age of Covid -- the desire to contain one's life and work under a single roof without losing one's mind.
Lining up on the other side are the powers of compression: shrinking family sizes; rising energy costs; and policies that seek to relieve today's affordable housing crisis by creating more apartments and micro homes.
What is the net effect? That depends on when you freeze the frame. In November, the National Association of Home Builders reported that the median size of new family homes had dipped to 2,276 square feet and was expected to drop more in the coming months, as high interest rates stifled construction budgets. It was a reminder that living small is a topic that looms large.
So for the first installment of a new column called "Living Small" -- exploring the choices some people are making to live as simply, sustainably or compactly as possible, for ethical or aesthetic reasons, or both -- we visited the association's annual trade fair, the International Builders' Show, to see how builders, manufacturers and architects are responding to this struggle.
There is nothing small about IBS, as the show's name is unfortunately abbreviated. This latest edition, which ended on Feb. 2, was part of a multi-trade-fair extravaganza known as Design and Construction Week, with 1,800 exhibitors spread over a million square feet in the Las Vegas Convention Center.
Beyond the fairgrounds, undeveloped swaths of Las Vegas rolled out to distant, sugary mountains. Inside, vendors showed off their slab siding, permeable pavers, patio doors, crown molding, woolly insulation, architectural design software -- and every other imaginable thing used to build a home -- while remaining agnostic about size: Shingles are shingles, no matter how big your roof is.
But running through the three-day event was a conversation about constraint, as soaring interest rates and construction material costs, combined with a shortage of available land and skilled labor, have led to a precipitous decline in home building.
Robert Dietz, the chief economist of the National Association of Home Builders, estimated that single-family home starts, which fell 12 percent in 2022 (to 744,000 from 999,000), would drop an additional 26 percent in 2023 before reversing direction. In terms of multifamily housing, Mr. Dietz predicted a 28 percent decline (to 391,000 units in 2023 from 545,000 in 2022).
Based on his group's data, he reported a 1.5 million deficit in the number of new homes needed to make housing relatively affordable in the United States. "Just 42 percent of new and existing home sales are currently affordable to a typical household, which is a post-Great Recession low," stated a news release summarizing his analysis.
The show revealed that to make the most of hobbled opportunities, developers, architects and builders are trimming the size of primary residences. Or dropping accessory dwelling units into backyards (20 percent of remodelers have undertaken an ADU project, Mr. Dietz reported). Or investigating new technologies for building affordable housing, including three-dimensional printing or innovations in factory-built structures.
In a presentation called "Small Homes, Big Impact!," Brad Shapiro, an architect from Memphis, offered suggestions for making it less obvious that 10 to 15 percent had been shaved off a house that in more prosperous times would have been 2,400 square feet. His advice included familiar strategies like adding windows to let in sunshine and using pale interior paint. He also recommended doing away with hallways leading to second-floor bedrooms.
In another presentation, Donald Ruthroff, an architect from Northern California, addressed home trends and buyer preferences. Responding to the pandemic-era clamor for home offices -- a National Association of Home Builders survey revealed that 88 percent of home builders had seen an increased demand for them -- he said, "The days of offices with bookshelves behind the desk, and a couple of chairs, are over."
All you need now is a desk and a videoconferencing setup.
Mr. Ruthroff further noted that Americans are asking for kitchens that are "like Swiss Army knives" -- not bigger, but better equipped.
"Covid drove people to want larger homes, and low interest rates allowed them to buy them," said Rose Quint, the association's assistant vice president for survey research. In fact, she added, the only single-family residential construction category that has shown consistent growth since 2000 is that of properties with four or more bedrooms. These constituted 48 percent of new houses started in 2022, compared with 43 percent in 2019, 34 percent in the recessionary year of 2009 and 36 percent in 2000. (She attributed the increase mainly to adult children living with their parents.)
Yet when buyers were asked about compromises they would make to afford a home, Ms. Quint reported, the leading answer -- cited by 45 percent of respondents -- was living in a smaller house, followed by having more basic interiors (35 percent) and fewer outdoor amenities (34 percent).
A number of IBS presentations indirectly broached this theme of smaller living, with titles like "Delivering Detached Housing That Is Dense, Desirable and Affordable" and "Champagne Taste on a Beer Budget in a Tightening Market."
Exhibitors chimed in, too. Scott Philippe, the chief operating officer of a Canadian company called Beyond Sustainable, said he was helping to build a community of small, prefabricated houses in New Brunswick, Canada, that would be rented and eventually sold. (The structural system, called OSBlock, which consists of interlocking wood modules with attached insulation, was displayed a few yards away.)
"Young people don't want big mortgages or leases, especially after Covid," Mr. Philippe said. "They want to travel." (As a sweetener, he is developing housing in Acapulco, Mexico, where renters in the community will get to stay free one week a year.)
Viken Ohanesian, the founder and chief executive of BOSS Homes, near Los Angeles, presented the model of a tiny house: a 320-square-foot structure with paneled walls and a steel roof that three builders can assemble like Lego blocks in three days. (The company's name is an acronym for "built-on-site system.") Even upgraded with aluminum windows and doors and a mini-split heating-and-cooling system, the house sells for only a little more than $ 56,000, and that includes a paint job.
Mr. Ohanesian started his company to build average-size homes, but spun off a tiny-house division several years ago, when California passed legislation allowing ADUs. The customers he envisioned were people like his daughter, Lara Ohanesian, who, despite being BOSS's project manager, would not be able to afford a house in Southern California without the assistance of rental income from a backyard unit, he said.
And who doesn't love a little house? Visitors swarmed an outdoor area of the show where several factory-built examples had been erected. The most eye-catching was Casita, a 375-square-foot house that could be hauled to its site by a Tesla and unfolded like a flat-packed box. Manufactured by Boxabl, a Nevada-based company, Casita comes with plumbing, electricity and appliances, and costs $ 60,000. According to David Thompson, the company's social media manager, 160,000 names are on the waiting list, and Elon Musk uses one as a guesthouse at his ranch in Boca Chica, Texas.
Next to Casita was a Boxabl sibling created from two vertically stacked modules joined by a spiral staircase. The cost-cutting finishes of the houses lent a disposable feeling, like Ikea furniture on an enormous scale, but it was hard to argue with the price and speed of assembly. (Unfolding a module takes about an hour, Mr. Thompson said.)
On the other side of this exhibit was a 1,409-square-foot modular cottage from Impresa Building Systems, in Greenwood, S.C., with an overhanging roof supported by columns and front and back porches. (Impresa houses average about $ 200 to $ 250 a square foot for the building and all site work, according to the company's website.) This exercise in traditional charm had two bedrooms, one and a half bathrooms and a sleeping loft.
A couple of skeptics were overheard remarking that more living area could have been extracted from under the vaulted ceiling. They also muttered about the dangers the circular staircase posed to passing heads. It was a tough crowd.
The takeaway from the show was that 2023 will continue to be challenging for home builders and buyers. But with interest rates and construction costs dropping, if only incrementally, the outlook for 2024 is more optimistic. Mr. Dietz forecast a rebound in housing starts in the second half of 2023, culminating in a year-over-year increase of 24 percent next year.
In terms of square footage, Ms. Quint predicted, somewhat counterintuitively, that the average size of houses built this year will grow under economic stress and contract next year when conditions improve: "The move toward larger homes and more amenities in 2023 will reflect the preferences of those who can afford higher interest rates," she stated in a news release, "and in 2024, size will fall back as affordability improves with lower mortgage rates and more buyers re-enter the market."
But there was evidence at IBS that shrinking house sizes may be only a blip on a continuum of growth. It came from a concurrent exhibition at the Las Vegas Convention Center: the Kitchen and Bath Industry Show. There, you could find small appliances like 24-inch-wide-washing machines and four-burner stoves, but they were usually in the booths of European companies targeting dense urban markets like New York City.
Many Europeans also presented large appliances that the companies had no intention of selling back home. Ege Uysal, the sales manager of Vestel, a Turkish manufacturer, described the features considered nonnegotiable for a refrigerator for the United States: 18 cubic feet of volume, a water dispenser on the door and -- most novel to him -- an extra-wide condiment shelf to hold a gallon milk carton.
"Everything is bigger in America," he said.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph Above, a model of a 320-square-foot house manufactured by BOSS Homes for use as an accessory dwelling unit, one of the solutions to the affordable housing crisis presented at the recent International Builders' Show, in Las Vegas. Far left, the trade show, one of several that were part of Design and Construction Week in Las Vegas, attracted almost 70,000 building professionals to the city's convention center. Near left, Casita, a 375-square-foot house manufactured by Boxabl, a Nevada-based company, unfolds like a flat-packed box.; Above, each Casita unit comes with wiring, plumbing and appliances. The cost of the dwelling, excluding site setup, is $ 60,000.; Far left, a 1,400-square-foot modular cottage from Impresa Building Systems was part of an outdoor display of modest-size homes. Near left, the interior of a two-bedroom Casita is compact but feels surprisingly spacious. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKAYLA WHITMORE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE8.

Subject: Construction costs; Architecture; Houses; Interest rates; Affordable housing; Architects; Housing starts

Business indexing term: Subject: Construction costs Architecture Interest rates Affordable housing Architects Housing starts

Location: United States--US; Las Vegas Nevada

Company / organization: Name: National Association of Home Builders; NAICS: 813910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/10/realestate/tiny-homes-housing-market-trends.html

Title: Little Houses on the Horizon:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

column: Living Small

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347533

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/little-houses-on-horizon/docview/2775347533/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Little Houses on the Horizon

Author: Lasky, Julie

Publication info: Lasky, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/little-houses-on-horizon/docview/2775341967/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
A tug of war is being waged over the size of the American home.
Pulling in one direction are the forces of expansion: the well-financed dream for many of a sprawling single-family house; the NIMBY activism that prevents the incursions of multifamily buildings into low-density neighborhoods; and — not least, in the age of COVID — the desire to contain one’s life and work under a single roof without losing one’s mind.
Lining up on the other side are the powers of compression: shrinking family sizes; rising energy costs; and policies that seek to relieve today’s affordable housing crisis by creating more apartments and micro homes.
What is the net effect? That depends on when you freeze the frame. In November, the National Association of Home Builders reported that the median size of new family homes had dipped to 2,276 square feet and was expected to drop more in the coming months, as high interest rates stifled construction budgets. It was a reminder that living small is a topic that looms large.
So for the first installment of a new column called “Living Small” — exploring the choices some people are making to live as simply, sustainably or compactly as possible, for ethical or aesthetic reasons, or both — we visited the association’s annual trade fair, the International Builders’ Show, to see how builders, manufacturers and architects are responding to this struggle.
There is nothing small about IBS, as the show’s name is unfortunately abbreviated. This latest edition, which ended Feb. 2, was part of a multi-trade-fair extravaganza known as Design and Construction Week, with 1,800 exhibitors spread over 1 million square feet in the Las Vegas Convention Center.
Beyond the fairgrounds, undeveloped swaths of Las Vegas rolled out to distant, sugary mountains. Inside, vendors showed off their slab siding, permeable pavers, patio doors, crown molding, woolly insulation, architectural design software — and every other imaginable thing used to build a home — while remaining agnostic about size: Shingles are shingles, no matter how big your roof is.
But running through the three-day event was a conversation about constraint, as soaring interest rates and construction material costs, combined with a shortage of available land and skilled labor, have led to a precipitous decline in homebuilding.
Robert Dietz, the chief economist of the National Association of Home Builders, estimated that single-family home starts, which fell 12% in 2022 (to 744,000 from 999,000), would drop an additional 26% in 2023 before reversing direction. In terms of multifamily housing, Dietz predicted a 28% decline (to 391,000 units in 2023 from 545,000 in 2022).
Based on his group’s data, he reported a 1.5 million deficit in the number of new homes needed to make housing relatively affordable in the United States. “Just 42% of new and existing home sales are currently affordable to a typical household, which is a post-Great Recession low,” stated a news release summarizing his analysis.
The show revealed that to make the most of hobbled opportunities, developers, architects and builders are trimming the size of primary residences. Or dropping accessory dwelling units into backyards (20% of remodelers have undertaken an ADU project, Dietz reported). Or investigating new technologies for building affordable housing, including 3D printing or innovations in factory-built structures.
In a presentation called “Small Homes, Big Impact!,” Brad Shapiro, an architect from Memphis, Tennessee, offered suggestions for making it less obvious that 10% to 15% had been shaved off a house that in more prosperous times would have been 2,400 square feet. His advice included familiar strategies like adding windows to let in sunshine and using pale interior paint. He also recommended doing away with hallways leading to second-floor bedrooms.
In another presentation, Donald Ruthroff, an architect from Northern California, addressed home trends and buyer preferences. Responding to the pandemic-era clamor for home offices — a National Association of Home Builders survey revealed that 88% of homebuilders had seen an increased demand for them — he said, “The days of offices with bookshelves behind the desk, and a couple of chairs, are over.”
All you need now is a desk and a videoconferencing setup.
Ruthroff further noted that Americans are asking for kitchens that are “like Swiss Army knives” — not bigger, but better equipped.
“COVID drove people to want larger homes, and low interest rates allowed them to buy them,” said Rose Quint, the association’s assistant vice president for survey research. In fact, she added, the only single-family residential construction category that has shown consistent growth since 2000 is that of properties with four or more bedrooms. These constituted 48% of new houses started in 2022, compared with 43% in 2019, 34% in the recessionary year of 2009 and 36% in 2000. (She attributed the increase mainly to adult children living with their parents.)
Yet when buyers were asked about compromises they would make to afford a home, Quint reported, the leading answer — cited by 45% of respondents — was living in a smaller house, followed by having more basic interiors (35%) and fewer outdoor amenities (34%).
A number of IBS presentations indirectly broached this theme of smaller living, with titles like “Delivering Detached Housing That Is Dense, Desirable and Affordable” and “Champagne Taste on a Beer Budget in a Tightening Market.”
Exhibitors chimed in, too. Scott Philippe, the chief operating officer of a Canadian company called Beyond Sustainable, said he was helping to build a community of small, prefabricated houses in New Brunswick, Canada, that would be rented and eventually sold. (The structural system, called OSBlock, which consists of interlocking wood modules with attached insulation, was displayed a few yards away.)
“Young people don’t want big mortgages or leases, especially after COVID,” Philippe said. “They want to travel.” (As a sweetener, he is developing housing in Acapulco, Mexico, where renters in the community will get to stay free one week a year.)
Viken Ohanesian, founder and CEO of BOSS Homes, near Los Angeles, presented the model of a tiny house: a 320-square-foot structure with paneled walls and a steel roof that three builders can assemble like Lego blocks in three days. (The company’s name is an acronym for “built-on-site system.”) Even upgraded with aluminum windows and doors and a mini-split heating-and-cooling system, the house sells for only a little more than $56,000, and that includes a paint job.
Ohanesian started his company to build average-size homes, but spun off a tiny-house division several years ago, when California passed legislation allowing ADUs. The customers he envisioned were people like his daughter, Lara Ohanesian, who, despite being BOSS’ project manager, would not be able to afford a house in Southern California without the assistance of rental income from a backyard unit, he said.
And who doesn’t love a little house? Visitors swarmed an outdoor area of the show where several factory-built examples had been erected. The most eye-catching was Casita, a 375-square-foot house that could be hauled to its site by a Tesla and unfolded like a flat-packed box. Manufactured by Boxabl, a Nevada-based company, Casita comes with plumbing, electricity and appliances, and costs $60,000. According to David Thompson, the company’s social media manager, 160,000 names are on the waiting list, and Elon Musk uses one as a guesthouse at his ranch in Boca Chica, Texas.
Next to Casita was a Boxabl sibling created from two vertically stacked modules joined by a spiral staircase. The cost-cutting finishes of the houses lent a disposable feeling, like Ikea furniture on an enormous scale, but it was hard to argue with the price and speed of assembly. (Unfolding a module takes about an hour, Thompson said.)
On the other side of this exhibit was a 1,409-square-foot modular cottage from Impresa Building Systems, in Greenwood, South Carolina, with an overhanging roof supported by columns and front and back porches. (Impresa houses average about $200 to $250 a square foot for the building and all site work, according to the company’s website.) This exercise in traditional charm had two bedrooms, one and a half bathrooms and a sleeping loft.
A couple of skeptics were overheard remarking that more living area could have been extracted from under the vaulted ceiling. They also muttered about the dangers the circular staircase posed to passing heads. It was a tough crowd.
The takeaway from the show was that 2023 will continue to be challenging for homebuilders and buyers. But with interest rates and construction costs dropping, if only incrementally, the outlook for 2024 is more optimistic. Dietz forecast a rebound in housing starts in the second half of 2023, culminating in a year-over-year increase of 24% next year.
In terms of square footage, Quint predicted, somewhat counterintuitively, that the average size of houses built this year will grow under economic stress and contract next year when conditions improve: “The move toward larger homes and more amenities in 2023 will reflect the preferences of those who can afford higher interest rates,” she stated in a news release, “and in 2024, size will fall back as affordability improves with lower mortgage rates and more buyers reenter the market.”
But there was evidence at IBS that shrinking house sizes may be only a blip on a continuum of growth. It came from a concurrent exhibition at the Las Vegas Convention Center: the Kitchen and Bath Industry Show. There, you could find small appliances like 24-inch-wide-washing machines and four-burner stoves, but they were usually in the booths of European companies targeting dense urban markets like New York City.
Many Europeans also presented large appliances that the companies had no intention of selling back home. Ege Uysal, the sales manager of Vestel, a Turkish manufacturer, described the features considered nonnegotiable for a refrigerator for the United States: 18 cubic feet of volume, a water dispenser on the door and — most novel to him — an extra-wide condiment shelf to hold a gallon milk carton.
“Everything is bigger in America,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Construction costs; Architecture; Houses; Interest rates; Affordable housing; Architects; Housing starts

Business indexing term: Subject: Construction costs Architecture Interest rates Affordable housing Architects Housing starts

Location: United States--US; Las Vegas Nevada

Company / organization: Name: National Association of Home Builders; NAICS: 813910

Identifier / keyword: Business; Nevada; Acapulco (Mexico); Musk, Elon; Los Angeles (Calif); Ikea; Mexico; Texas; Tennessee; South Carolina; Boca Chica (Tex); New York City; Greenwood (Sc); Memphis (Tenn); New Brunswick (Canada); Tesla Motors Inc; Canada; Europe; Las Vegas (Nev); United States; National Assn Of Home Builders; California; Roofs; Interior Design And Furnishings; Wages And Salaries; Moving And Moving Industry; Kitchens; Housing Starts; Condiments; Banking And Financial Institutions; Age, Chronological; Real Estate (Commercial); Building (Construction); Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Company Reports; Factories And Manufacturing; Telecommuting; Politics And Government; Windows; Interest Rates; Labor And Jobs; Home Appliances; Law And Legislation; Architecture; Mobile Homes And Trailers; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Affordable Housing; Sustainable Living

Title: Little Houses on the Horizon

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-11 @ 17:52

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775341967

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/little-houses-on-horizon/docview/2775341967/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Restoring a House for Every Body: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Green, Penelope

Publication info: Green, Penelope. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/restoring-house-every-body/docview/2770379199/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Half a century ago, Marc Harrison built a prototype for a home that would accommodate people of all ages and abilities. Now his daughter has restored it.
In the early 1970s, when the house was built, it must have seemed like something from another planet. With its rounded, porthole-style windows and doors and its bubble skylights, it would have looked less like a home than a spaceship that had landed in the woods of northwestern Rhode Island, in a small town called Foster.
And in some ways, the structure was equally futuristic. A collaboration between Marc Harrison, an industrial designer, and his students at the Rhode Island School of Design, it was a showcase for what is now known as universal design -- a place where people of all ages and abilities could be comfortable. A house for every body.
The building, which was recently restored by Mr. Harrison's daughter, Natasha, a glass sculptor and the executive director of The Newport Tree Conservancy, and her husband, Ben Randall, a professional woodworker, was laid out to accommodate anyone who might have mobility issues or use a wheelchair. Not that you would notice those accommodations. Most of them are hidden in plain sight.
The light switches are flat. The outlets are raised to hip height. All the door handles and faucets are levers. The interior of the house is on one level, with wide doorways and no thresholds. The kitchen has pullout counters, a stove set at counter height with a door that opens like a cupboard and a sink that drains from the back, so you could wheel right up to it and not hit the drainpipe with your legs.
"Marc looked at everything through the eyes of the disabled body, and he believed if he solved the issues for a disabled person, he would have solved the issues for everyone," said John Behringer, an industrial designer who was a colleague of Mr. Harrison's at RISD. "He always said that the closer you got to solving the functional relationship of the object to the human being, the more pure the object became."
Mr. Harrison is probably best known for redesigning the Cuisinart food processor a few years after the house was built. In doing so, he applied the same principles -- drawing from studies of how people with arthritis, Parkinson's disease and impaired eyesight use kitchen tools -- to create a machine that could be operated by anyone. He replaced the tiny power buttons with paddle-like switches, streamlined and enlarged the work-bowl handle and made the plug bigger, among other innovations.
Mobility issues were not in his brief. Cuisinart's owner and creator, Carl Sontheimer, an MIT-educated engineer and entrepreneur, had simply asked Mr. Harrison to refine the machine, a modestly successful adaptation of an imposing French blender marketed to American cooks.
But Mr. Harrison had his own ideas. He had had a profound experience, as he put it, when he was 11 and a sledding accident sent him into a monthslong coma, after which he had to relearn how to move and speak. Years later, when he became a designer and educator, he was determined to make systems and objects as easy to use as possible, and to sensitize his students to the drawbacks and the possibilities of the man-made world. In short, he was a pioneer in universal design, a term coined in the late 1970s by Ronald L. Mace, an architect who had used a wheelchair since contracting polio as a child.
The new Cuisinart, which appeared in 1978, turned what had been a drab-looking machine with unlovely signage into a stylish, must-have kitchen tool -- an aspirational object for the aspirational kitchen -- and a design icon. Its pure lines were the inspiration for early Macintosh computers; Steve Jobs had admired Cuisinarts on the shelves at Macy's.
The Cuisinart's success was perhaps not surprising to Mr. Harrison, because he believed that if you designed for all abilities, you couldn't help but make better products. So when he was asked to rethink the American home as a showcase for prefabricated components -- also known as manufactured or industrialized housing -- he and his students tackled the assignment the same way. And then they built the house themselves, right down to the furniture.
What they came up with was a knockout, although it had an awkward name: the ILZRO House, for the International Lead Zinc Research Organization, the trade group that funded it, whose members were eager to get into the housing market. (It was Mr. Harrison's practice to bring industry and government sponsors and commissions into his classroom.)
The house was designed like a LEGO toy, a kit of parts that clipped together and then were bolted using basic tools -- no experience required. No part was so big or heavy that it needed any lifting equipment. And the pieces could be delivered in flat packs (as Ikea furniture would later be) on flatbed trailers.
The heady idea was that this form of construction would cut costs with its efficiencies, and with its material -- zinc panels filled with foam -- which could be recycled. (The cost was estimated at $ 20 a square foot, or about $ 133 today.) Maintenance costs would also be reduced, because zinc develops an appealing patina and doesn't need to be painted or repainted. (Think of the roofs of Paris!) It was soundproof, fireproof, bug proof, thermally efficient and, cunningly, magnetic, so that the sleek light fixtures (cone-shaped sconces in the bedrooms) and the magnetized picture hangers Mr. Harrison designed could be attached firmly to the walls and moved around easily.
He and his family lived in the house until 1978, when he sold it to a pair of RISD professors, Gerald and Lorraine Howes. After they divorced, Ms. Howes kept the house, maintaining it fastidiously. When she sold it recently to Ms. Harrison and Mr. Randall, there wasn't all that much to fix up. But the couple, who have no plans to live there, were intent on preserving the place as an important part of Mr. Harrison's legacy. And RISD professors are already including tours of it in their courses.
On a recent morning, nestled in a sea of ferns, the house sparkled. Mr. Randall had rebuilt the beds and refinished the low-slung sofas, making sure to reupholster them in orange fabric -- an essential hue in the palette of the early 1970s. (The original was rusty brown.) Ms. Harrison demonstrated the home's universal design features: the sturdy pullout "counter" under the oven; the chest-high acrylic storage tubs, for pantry items like pasta; the overall flow of the space.
Mr. Harrison always focused on the human experience: How did people move through space; what were the steps involved in their daily tasks; and how could he design to streamline those tasks?
Ms. Harrison recalled spending time in the place as a child, sleeping in the bunk bed her father had built for her -- it felt like being in a ship's cabin, she said -- and the endless pasta meals that served as tests for the Cuisinart's pasta attachment, which Mr. Harrison was developing. She also remembered the bad-tempered llama that lived in the barn/studio nearby, terrorizing her father's students. There, he worked nights making prototypes. "The smell of burning plastic was the perfume of my childhood," she said.
The ILZRO house was a prototype for a single-family home, but not only that: It was also a template for temporary shelters, post-disaster housing and multiunit dwellings. When it was completed in 1973, though, the American economy had begun sliding into a recession, and the building industry fell apart. The ILZRO house became, as Mr. Harrison put it, "an instant modern relic."
Prefab housing has a long history of never quite taking off. Perhaps the highest (and the lowest) moment came in the mid-20th century, with a government-backed effort to address the postwar housing shortage with enamel-coated steel houses made by the Lustron Corporation at a plant in Ohio. The project failed miserably, tanked by the cost of steel and shipping, as well as, one could argue, the rather grim design. In 2021, prefabricated -- or "non-site built," to use the industry term -- single-family homes accounted for just 2 percent of the total of homes constructed, according to census data and analysis from the National Association of Home Builders. That was down from 7 percent in 1998, the highest percentage in the last three decades.
For his part, Mr. Harrison saw his house as a failure. But Bess Williamson, a professor at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and the author of the 2019 book "Accessible America: A History of Disability and Design," said it may be the rare example of a place built for accessibility, before widespread laws requiring it, that has survived intact. "Even FDR's house has been upgraded and altered," she said, referring to Top Cottage, the retreat the former president built at Springwood, his estate in Hyde Park, N.Y. (He was paralyzed from the waist down after contracting polio at 39.) Ms. Williamson added, "Most early disability sites were ad hoc and have not been preserved."
Like the Cuisinart, which she described as the first mainstream product designed for accessibility, the ILZRO house is a milestone in the history of disability and design.
The ideas and innovations in its kitchen showed up much later, in RISD's Universal Kitchen, a 1990s project five years in the making. It aimed to solve, in Mr. Harrison's words, the disaster that was the modern kitchen, which he thought was so poorly conceived and unaccommodating that it could disable the healthiest cook. The project, which he oversaw along with Jane Langmuir, a professor of interior architecture, and Peter Wooding, an industrial designer, involved the participation of more than 100 students, who set out to deconstruct the conventional kitchen. Their solutions included a pop-up dishwasher, a medley of refrigerators, some as small as drawers, pullout counters and appliances, a pasta station and other flourishes. The kitchen came in three sizes, which were exhibited in 1998 at the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum in New York, in a show called "Unlimited by Design."
Toward the end of the project, Mr. Harrison learned he had Lou Gehrig's disease, otherwise known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S. That he would find himself restricted in his abilities and using a wheelchair after a lifetime of designing for such conditions is an odd twist of fate. He died before the show opened, and the project was dedicated to him.
"Marc always said he didn't want to design objects that were for the prime of your life, but for your whole life," said Khipra Nichols, who heads RISD's industrial design department, as Mr. Harrison once did.
Mr. Nichols recalled walking through the ILZRO house when he was a student. "It struck me as a purposeful design, very clean and with nothing out of place," he said. "At the time, I didn't yet understand what it took to make something like that."
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph Top, the home designed by Marc Harrison and his students at the Rhode Island School of Design half a century ago. Second row: Mr. Harrison's daughter, Natasha Harrison, and her husband, Ben Randall, have restored the house; the oven opens like a cabinet and has a pullout counter underneath. Third row: There's additional storage under the cabinets; light switches and an outlet are hip height; and orange, an essential hue in the palette of the early 1970s, makes its way into the bathroom. Above, the living room includes seating reupholstered in orange. Above right, the Cuisinart food processor, left, was reimagined by Mr. Harrison. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY LUONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LEFT AND ABOVE, VIA MARC HARRISON) This article appeared in print on page RE4.

ERIC Subject: Family (Sociological Unit); Housing; Assistive Technology

Subject: Universal design; Housing; Students

Location: United States--US; Rhode Island

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/28/realestate/marc-harrison-universal-design-home-restoration.html

Title: Restoring a House for Every Body:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 29, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770379199

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/restoring-house-every-body/docview/2770379199/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 29, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bland, Yes. But They Satisfy a Lot of Needs.: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kodé, Anna

Publication info: Kodé, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bland-yes-they-satisfy-lot-needs/docview/2767530938/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Charles Mudede was at the Post Pike Bar in Seattle in November, nursing a glass of white wine and having a heated discussion about a topic he felt strongly about: the state of new development in the city.
Last year, residential construction in Seattle hit a record high with over 13,000 units built, according to data from Seattle in Progress, an organization that tracks construction. Mr. Mudede, 53, who has lived in the city for 30 years, was expressing his distaste for some of those "architectural abominations."
"What's that new building?" he asked the bartender. "It's an apartment building, but they put some bright blue, splashy thing on its facade."
"The Motorworks building?" the bartender responded, referring to the luxury apartments a few blocks from the bar.
"No, no."
"It's the one with the juice bar on the bottom floor, right?" another person sitting at the bar asked.
"No, not that one."
The guessing game went on for a few more minutes, with other patrons chiming in, until Mr. Mudede, a filmmaker and lecturer at the Cornish College of the Arts, sighed and said, "Nobody can tell because they all look the same."
In 2022, an estimated 420,000 new rental apartments were built in the United States, the highest amount for new multifamily construction in a half-century, according to the latest data from RentCafe, an apartment search platform.
The new developments look startlingly alike, often in the form of boxy, mid-rise buildings with a ground-floor retail space, sans-serif fonts and vivid slabs of bright paneling. The bulky design is conspicuous, jutting out of downtown streets and overpowering its surroundings. Over time, it attracts a certain ecosystem -- the craft breweries, the boutique coffee shops, the out-of-town young professionals.
It's anytown architecture, and it's hard to know where you are from one city to the next.
This is not the first time that a single building style has been widely adopted and derided. Take, for example, the monotony of American suburbs, or trailer parks, which took off in the 20th century as low-income housing but were criticized for their cookie-cutter nature.
Yet advocates for multifamily housing say there are times when design has to take a back seat to necessity, and an affordability crisis, exacerbated by inflation and brutally low housing inventory, is one of those times. The current construction has been "driven by pent-up demand for apartments nationwide, especially as some renters postpone their dream to become homeowners," according to the RentCafe report.
As developers scramble to build, The New York Times visited three places -- Denver, Nashville and Seattle -- in search of the sameness and what it means. Are American cities destined to lose their unique charm? In the current housing crisis, does that matter?
Municipal reviews and cheap materials
In Seattle, most new private development projects must undergo a design review process. The city has eight design review boards, each for a different geographic district, and all are made up of volunteers. The boards are tasked with determining if a proposed project fits city and neighborhood design guidelines, which cover aspects such as outward appearance, vehicular access and landscaping.
The waterfront Ballard neighborhood of Seattle, once a hub for Nordic immigrants, is now a trendy destination with record shops, bars and restaurants. Complexes with roughly five wood-frame stories atop one concrete podium -- known as 5-over-1s -- dominate consecutive blocks.
The design guidelines, adopted by the City Council in 2001 and last revised in 2019, encourage "bold colors and volumes similar to those expressed in the Ballard Library and Greenfire buildings," which house apartments, office space and a restaurant. It's a process that has drawn criticism -- and one that is partially responsible for the homogenization of architecture across a city once known for its Northwest Regional style of architecture defined by unpainted wood, flat roofs and lots of glass.
"The design review process sometimes contributes to some of the things that people don't like," said Newton Breiter, creative director of Lake Union Partners, a real estate development company based in Seattle that has worked on many 5-over-1s.
The review board members "want to see that a project isn't just one big mass, so they say, 'I want you to modulate the building, I want you to make it look different,"' Mr. Breiter said. "So you end up with all these different materials, and it drives the addition of bright colors."
Architects are also often working under budgetary constraints and density requests from developers, who don't want to lose money on their investments. And wood-frame construction, which makes up the bulk of these buildings, is typically less expensive than, say, concrete or steel.
Higher construction costs would require higher rents "in order to make the project financially feasible for an investor and a bank," Mr. Breiter said.
Davi Parker-Garcia, a principal at the Seattle-based architecture firm Weinstein A+U, said there was also "pressure to squeeze as many units as you can." Almost a decade ago, the typical one-bedroom unit that the firm would work on was around 730 square feet. Now the expectation is that it should be in the 600s, she said.
Rather than change the type of building, she said her focus was pushing the boundaries of what could be done within the template, like making the windows bigger. "We are often forced to work with bottom-of-the-barrel materials," Ms. Parker-Garcia said.
'Lego structures'
Colloquially, people have referred to 5-over-1s as "gentrification buildings" or "fast-casual architecture." Not all of them are built the same, however. Some are permanent affordable housing communities, while others hawk luxury urban living. Still, for many people, 5-over-1s have come to symbolize, in tangible form, the most painful aspects of today's housing crisis -- stand-ins for gentrification, corporate landlords and excessively high rents.
That's in part why they're so hated, and why it's acceptable to hate them.
"I think they're terrible," said Zereseni Selemun, 50, a Lyft driver, as he was passing through the Ballard neighborhood of Seattle. "It's very ugly. Very ugly. I hate it!"
In 2015, Brad Evans, an artist, created the private Facebook group "Denver FUGLY" to express his frustration over the city's new uninspired development.
The group now has nearly 10,000 members and does not mince words: "Let's get after it at the core of what needs to be exposed and work to stop the stupid, the lazy and the pathetic execution of bad ideas," the page summary reads.
"The people behind these Lego structures don't care, they've never been here, nor will they come here," Mr. Evans, 56, said in an interview.
Driving around the Jefferson Park neighborhood of Denver, Mr. Evans pointed out the missed opportunities for public green space and the random fake-brick facades tacked onto buildings.
One block of Jefferson Park that was designated as a historic district in 2019 remains almost pristinely preserved. Lined with ornate Queen Anne-style and terraced homes, the street feels like a step back in time. That is, until one reaches the end of the block.
Part of the issue, critics say, is that a handful of real estate developers are now managing a disproportionate share of new projects across the country.
In 2021, five of the 25 largest developers were responsible for starting construction on nearly 47,000 units in the United States -- about 40 percent of the output of the whole group, according to data from the National Multifamily Housing Council.
Greystar Real Estate Partners -- which started over 14,000 of those units, the greatest share on the list -- more than quadrupled its output from 2014. The company, which manages over 700,000 units in the country, is based in Charleston, S.C., but owns developments in New York City, Houston and Tampa, among other cities.
Bob Faith, the chief executive of Greystar, echoing the sentiments of other developers, said that for the most part, the style of its buildings was "driven by the planning regulations in any city."
"I don't want to say it's like color-by-numbers, but, in some cities, it's color-by-numbers," Mr. Faith said. He said Greystar made an effort to differentiate its projects by adding "flash" to exteriors with different materials or shapes.
Perhaps what bothers some Denver residents the most is what the new architecture signals: In 2005, more than 80 percent of Jefferson Park residents were Latino and more than 50 percent were foreign-born, according to a city report at the time. In recent years, Denver's growing technology and cannabis industries have drawn many coastal transplants to the region, changing the demographics, and style, of the neighborhood.
"They're like Denny's," Mr. Evans said of the new buildings. "You could be at a Denny's in Iowa or New Mexico or Colorado, and you wouldn't know. You just know that you're at a Denny's."
A cycle of uniformity
Will we one day look back on the current architecture and feel nostalgia for design once mocked? History suggests yes.
Dingbat apartments -- two- to three-story buildings, often painted in pastel colors and emblazoned with catchy names in script fonts, with a ground-level open parking area -- became pervasive throughout the Sun Belt region in the 1950s and '60s, for reasons similar to today's.
"They were initially really maligned as the crystallization of pure real estate rationale with architecture that was just tacked on," said Liz Falletta, an architect and professor of planning and urban design at the University of Southern California. "But we built enough of them so that you could rent them for an affordable price. And now, they're being celebrated for their midcentury modern design, and there's a lot of nostalgia for them."
Brownstones, which now sell for millions in New York City, were also hated in their heyday.
"While they would later be viewed as authentic, contemporaries dismissed brownstones as modern and artificial," wrote Suleiman Osman, a professor of American studies at George Washington University, in his book "The Invention of Brownstone Brooklyn."
"When one has seen one house, he has seen them all," one critic, quoted in Mr. Osman's book, wrote about brownstones in the 1800s.
As with brownstones and dingbats, distaste can dissolve with time.
"A lot of people's lives will have been lived in them, 20, 30, 40 years from now. In their role as housing and much-needed housing, people might look back on them more positively," Ms. Falletta said of today's buildings. "They may not be valorized as good design, but people's attitudes will change."
At the end of 2020, the nation was short 3.8 million units of housing, according to Freddie Mac. Multifamily buildings, despite their aesthetic shortcomings, can close that gap far quicker and cheaper than, say, brownstones or bungalows.
Critics agree that more housing is positive, but they also feel that the current construction misses an opportunity.
"Getting housing built is more important than nit-picking over aesthetics," said Kate Wagner, an architecture critic and the creator of the "McMansion Hell" blog, "but there is definitely room within the housing to improve aesthetics."
Mr. Mudede, the Seattle resident, said he wasn't against construction. "But cities should be inspiring," he said. "Living in them can and should feel like a work of art, and that's what's sad for me."
'I feel secure, I feel safe'
At one time, the 12 South neighborhood of Nashville was home to a number of Black churches, modest spaces that were integral to the culture of the neighborhood. But as new development increased and prices rose over the past few years, church members were forced to move out of the area. Many of those churches saw no choice but to leave as well.
"The people we used to serve were uprooted from the neighborhood," said Calvin C. Barlow Jr., a bishop at Second Missionary Baptist Church. In 2021, the church sold its properties, including a garden and a parking lot, to a developer for $ 3.5 million and moved to a new location on the outskirts of the city.
In the neighborhood today, one can find stylish restaurants and boutiques -- including Draper James, the clothing shop founded by the actress Reese Witherspoon -- and those contemporary apartment buildings that many people loathe.
"The city loses when people are pushed out. It loses knowledge, it loses ideas, it loses vision," Bishop Barlow, 72, said. His church used to run a computer lab to teach children technology skills after school. "Those kids don't have that after-school care now," he said.
In north Nashville, some new development serves a different purpose.
In the ZIP code of 37208 -- which has the highest incarceration rate in the country and a high poverty rate, attributed to systemic racism -- there is a new mid-rise apartment development with nearly 150 units. The buildings, which opened to residents in 2017, have green and orange detailing, and one even has a Chase Bank on the ground floor. It's what many people might call a "gentrification building" -- but it's far from that.
The mixed-use complex is run by the nonprofit Urban Housing Solutions. That it looks like new development in wealthier neighborhoods is intentional, said Alan Mazer, the organization's general counsel. "Why should affordable housing look any different from other housing?" he asked.
One of the struggles of getting housing built for households with lower incomes, Mr. Mazer said, is the approval process.
"A building has to have a certain amount of visual appeal in order for us to get into certain neighborhoods," he said. To obtain a building permit, he added, "you have to convince your neighbors that you're not going to bring down the neighborhood."
The easiest route to appeasing those concerns is giving people what they're accustomed to. Today, that often means boxy, mid-rise buildings.
Nearly three years ago, Rosalie Holder, 71, moved into the Urban Housing Solutions development from an adjacent neighborhood, after several close encounters with street violence compelled her to search for a new home.
Ms. Holder was grateful for paying $ 240 a month, far below market rate. She said her neighbors were friendly and the area felt peaceful. The aesthetics of the building were the last thing on her mind, if they were on it at all.
"Here, I feel secure, I feel safe. I don't hear gunshots. I can walk to the store," Ms. Holder said. "I didn't think I could find a place like this."
Quizzes produced by Gabriel Gianordoli.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Quizzes produced by Gabriel Gianordoli.
Photograph 1. Do you know which of these buildings is in Seattle? (See answers below.); 2. Which apartment complex is in Denver?; 3. Can you pick out the building that's in Nashville? (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP ROW, FROM LEFT: RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. SECOND ROW, FROM LEFT: WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ANDREW MILLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. THIRD ROW: RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES.); Clockwise from center: a 5-over-1 building in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Seattle; another in the city's Central District neighborhood; Calvin C. Barlow Jr., a bishop at Second Missionary Baptist Church in Nashville, which sold its properties to a developer for $ 3.5 million and moved to a new location on the outskirts of the city; Brad Evans, who created the private Facebook group "Denver FUGLY"; design guidelines in Seattle encourage "bold colors," like the ones seen on this Central District complex; an apartment building was under construction in Denver's Jefferson Park neighborhood. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ANDREW MILLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE6.

Subject: Multiple dwellings; Architecture; Site planning; Bars; Neighborhoods; Apartments; Affordable housing; Cities; Building construction

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture Affordable housing

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/realestate/housing-developments-city-architecture.html

Title: Bland, Yes. But They Satisfy a Lot of Needs.:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767530938

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bland-yes-they-satisfy-lot-needs/docview/2767530938/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bland, Yes. But They Satisfy a Lot of Needs.

Author: Kodé, Anna

Publication info: Kodé, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bland-yes-they-satisfy-lot-needs/docview/2767511085/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Charles Mudede was at the Post Pike Bar in Seattle in November, nursing a glass of white wine and having a heated discussion about a topic he felt strongly about: the state of new development in the city.
Last year, residential construction in Seattle hit a record high, with over 13,000 units built, according to data from Seattle in Progress, an organization that tracks construction. Mudede, 53, who has lived in the city for 30 years, was expressing his distaste for some of those “architectural abominations.”
“What’s that new building?” he asked the bartender. “It’s an apartment building, but they put some bright blue, splashy thing on its facade.”
“The Motorworks building?” the bartender responded, referring to the luxury apartments a few blocks from the bar.
“No, no.”
“It’s the one with the juice bar on the bottom floor, right?” another person sitting at the bar asked.
“No, not that one.”
The guessing game went on for a few more minutes, with other patrons chiming in, until Mudede, a filmmaker and lecturer at the Cornish College of the Arts, sighed and said, “Nobody can tell because they all look the same.”
In 2022, an estimated 420,000 new rental apartments were built in the United States, the highest amount for new multifamily construction in a half-century, according to the latest data from RentCafe, an apartment search platform.
The new developments look startlingly alike, often in the form of boxy, midrise buildings with ground-floor retail space, sans-serif fonts and vivid slabs of bright paneling. The bulky design is conspicuous, jutting out of downtown streets and overpowering its surroundings. Over time, it attracts a certain ecosystem: craft breweries, boutique coffee shops, out-of-town young professionals.
It’s anytown architecture, and it’s hard to know where you are from one city to the next.
This is not the first time that a single building style has been widely adopted and derided. Take the monotony of American suburbs, or trailer parks, which took off in the 20th century as low-income housing but were criticized for their cookie-cutter nature.
Yet advocates for multifamily housing say that there are times when design has to take a back seat to necessity, and that an affordability crisis, exacerbated by inflation and brutally low housing inventory, is one of those times. The current construction has been “driven by pent-up demand for apartments nationwide, especially as some renters postpone their dream to become homeowners,” according to the RentCafe report.
As developers scramble to build, The New York Times visited three places — Denver, Seattle and Nashville, Tennessee — in search of sameness and what it means. Are American cities destined to lose their unique charm? In the current housing crisis, does that matter?
Municipal reviews and cheap materials
In Seattle, most new private development projects must undergo a design review process. The city has eight design review boards, each for a different geographic district, and all are made up of volunteers. The boards are tasked with determining if a proposed project fits city and neighborhood design guidelines, which cover aspects such as outward appearance, vehicular access and landscaping.
The waterfront Ballard neighborhood of Seattle, once a hub for Nordic immigrants, is now a trendy destination with record shops, bars and restaurants. Complexes with roughly five wood-frame stories atop one concrete podium — known as 5-over-1s — dominate consecutive blocks.
The design guidelines, adopted by the City Council in 2001 and last revised in 2019, encourage “bold colors and volumes similar to those expressed in the Ballard Library and Greenfire buildings,” which house apartments, office space and a restaurant. It’s a process that has drawn criticism — and one that is partially responsible for the homogenization of architecture across a city once known for its Northwest Regional style of architecture, defined by unpainted wood, flat roofs and lots of glass.
“The design review process sometimes contributes to some of the things that people don’t like,” said Newton Breiter, creative director of Lake Union Partners, a real estate development company based in Seattle that has worked on many 5-over-1s.
The review board members “want to see that a project isn’t just one big mass, so they say, ‘I want you to modulate the building. I want you to make it look different,’” Breiter said. “So you end up with all these different materials, and it drives the addition of bright colors.”
Architects are also often working under budgetary constraints and density requests from developers, who don’t want to lose money on their investments. And wood-frame construction, which makes up the bulk of these buildings, is typically less expensive than concrete or steel.
Higher construction costs would require higher rents “in order to make the project financially feasible for an investor and a bank,” Breiter said.
Davi Parker-Garcia, a principal at Seattle-based architecture firm Weinstein A+U, said there is “pressure to squeeze as many units as you can.” Almost a decade ago, the typical one-bedroom unit that the firm would work on was around 730 square feet. Now the expectation is that it should be in the 600s, she said.
Rather than change the type of building, she said her focus is pushing the boundaries of what can be done within the template, like making the windows bigger.
“We are often forced to work with bottom-of-the-barrel materials,” Parker-Garcia said.
‘Lego structures’
Colloquially, people have referred to 5-over-1s as “gentrification buildings” or “fast-casual architecture.” Not all of them are built the same, however. Some are permanent affordable-housing communities, while others hawk luxury urban living. Still, for many people, 5-over-1s have come to symbolize, in tangible form, the most painful aspects of today’s housing crisis: They are stand-ins for gentrification, corporate landlords and excessively high rents.
That’s in part why they’re so hated.
“I think they’re terrible,” Zereseni Selemun, 50, a Lyft driver, said as he was passing through the Ballard neighborhood of Seattle. “It’s very ugly. Very ugly. I hate it!”
In 2015, artist Brad Evans created the private Facebook group “Denver FUGLY” to express his frustration over the city’s new uninspired development.
The group now has nearly 10,000 members and does not mince words: “Let’s get after it at the core of what needs to be exposed and work to stop the stupid, the lazy and the pathetic execution of bad ideas,” the page summary reads.
“The people behind these Lego structures don’t care. They’ve never been here, nor will they come here,” Evans, 56, said in an interview.
Driving around the Jefferson Park neighborhood of Denver, Evans pointed out the missed opportunities for public green space and the random fake-brick facades tacked on to buildings.
One block of Jefferson Park that was designated as a historic district in 2019 remains almost pristinely preserved. Lined with ornate Queen Anne-style and terraced homes, the street feels like a step back in time. That is, until one reaches the end of the block.
Part of the issue, critics say, is that a handful of real estate developers manages a disproportionate share of new projects across the country.
In 2021, five of the 25 largest developers were responsible for starting construction on nearly 47,000 units in the United States — about 40% of the output of the whole group, according to data from the National Multifamily Housing Council.
Greystar Real Estate Partners — which started over 14,000 of those units, the greatest share on the list — more than quadrupled its output from 2014. The company, which manages over 700,000 units in the country, is based in Charleston, South Carolina, but owns developments in New York City; Houston; and Tampa, Florida, among other cities.
Bob Faith, CEO of Greystar, echoing the sentiments of other developers, said that for the most part the style of its buildings is “driven by the planning regulations in any city.”
“I don’t want to say it’s like color-by-numbers, but in some cities, it’s color-by-numbers,” Faith said. He said Greystar makes an effort to differentiate its projects by adding “flash” to exteriors with different materials or shapes.
Perhaps what bothers some Denver residents the most is what the new architecture signals: In 2005, more than 80% of Jefferson Park residents were Latino, and more than 50% were foreign-born, according to a city report at the time. In recent years, Denver’s growing technology and cannabis industries have drawn many coastal transplants to the region, changing the demographics, and style, of the neighborhood.
“They’re like Denny’s,” Evans said of the new buildings. “You could be at a Denny’s in Iowa or New Mexico or Colorado, and you wouldn’t know. You just know that you’re at a Denny’s.”
Dingbats and brownstones once maligned
Will we one day look back on the current architecture and feel nostalgia for design once mocked? History suggests yes.
Dingbat apartments — two- to three-story buildings, often painted in pastel colors and emblazoned with catchy names in script fonts, with a ground-level open parking area — became pervasive throughout the Sun Belt in the 1950s and ’60s, for reasons similar to today’s.
“They were initially really maligned as the crystallization of pure real estate rationale with architecture that was just tacked on,” said Liz Falletta, an architect and professor of planning and urban design at the University of Southern California. “But we built enough of them so that you could rent them for an affordable price. And now they’re being celebrated for their midcentury modern design, and there’s a lot of nostalgia for them.”
Brownstones, which now sell for millions in New York City, were also hated in their heyday.
“While they would later be viewed as authentic, contemporaries dismissed brownstones as modern and artificial,” Suleiman Osman, a professor of American studies at George Washington University, wrote in his book “The Invention of Brownstone Brooklyn.”
“When one has seen one house, he has seen them all,” one critic, quoted in Osman’s book, wrote about brownstones in the 1800s.
As with brownstones and dingbats, distaste can dissolve with time.
“A lot of people’s lives will have been lived in them 20, 30, 40 years from now. In their role as housing and much-needed housing, people might look back on them more positively,” Falletta said of today’s buildings. “They may not be valorized as good design, but people’s attitudes will change.”
At the end of 2020, the nation was short 3.8 million units of housing, according to Freddie Mac. Multifamily buildings, despite their aesthetic shortcomings, can close that gap far quicker and cheaper than, say, brownstones or bungalows.
Critics agree that more housing is positive, but they also say that the current construction misses an opportunity.
“Getting housing built is more important than nitpicking over aesthetics,” said Kate Wagner, an architecture critic and the creator of the “McMansion Hell” blog, “but there is definitely room within the housing to improve aesthetics.”
Mudede, the Seattle resident, said he isn’t against construction, “but cities should be inspiring. Living in them can and should feel like a work of art, and that’s what’s sad for me.”
Changes in Nashville
At one time, the 12 South neighborhood of Nashville was home to a number of Black churches, modest spaces that were integral to the culture of the neighborhood. But as new development increased and prices rose over the past few years, church members were forced to move out of the area. Many of those churches saw no choice but to leave as well.
“The people we used to serve were uprooted from the neighborhood,” said Calvin C. Barlow Jr., a bishop at Second Missionary Baptist Church. In 2021, the church sold its properties, including a garden and a parking lot, to a developer for $3.5 million and moved to the outskirts of the city.
In the neighborhood today, one can find stylish restaurants and boutiques — including Draper James, the clothing shop founded by actress Reese Witherspoon — and those contemporary apartment buildings that many people loathe.
“The city loses when people are pushed out. It loses knowledge, it loses ideas, it loses vision,” Barlow, 72, said. His church used to run a computer lab to teach children technology skills after school. “Those kids don’t have that after-school care now.”
In north Nashville, some new development serves a different purpose.
In the ZIP code of 37208 — which has the highest incarceration rate in the country and a high poverty rate, attributed to systemic racism — there is a new midrise apartment development with nearly 150 units. The buildings, which opened to residents in 2017, have green and orange detailing, and one has a Chase Bank on the ground floor. It’s what many people might call a “gentrification building,” but it’s far from that.
The mixed-use complex is run by the nonprofit Urban Housing Solutions. That it looks like new development in wealthier neighborhoods is intentional, said Alan Mazer, the organization’s general counsel.
“Why should affordable housing look any different from other housing?” he asked.
One of the struggles of getting housing built for households with lower incomes, Mazer said, is the approval process.
“A building has to have a certain amount of visual appeal in order for us to get into certain neighborhoods,” he said. To obtain a building permit, he added, “you have to convince your neighbors that you’re not going to bring down the neighborhood.”
The easiest route to appeasing those concerns is giving people what they’re accustomed to. Today that often means boxy, midrise buildings.
Nearly three years ago, Rosalie Holder, 71, moved into the Urban Housing Solutions development from an adjacent neighborhood, after several close encounters with street violence compelled her to search for a new home.
Holder is grateful for paying $240 a month, far below market rate. She said her neighbors are friendly and the area feels peaceful. The aesthetics of the building were the last thing on her mind, if they were on it at all.
“Here, I feel secure. I feel safe. I don’t hear gunshots. I can walk to the store,” Holder said. “I didn’t think I could find a place like this.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Multiple dwellings; Housing; Architecture; Site planning; Bars; Apartments; Neighborhoods; Building construction; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Architecture

Location: New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Houston (Tex); Tennessee; South Carolina; Florida; Charleston (Sc); Washington University; Draper James Llc; New York Times; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Tampa (Fla); University Of Southern California; George Washington University; Lego Group; Mexico; New Mexico; Colorado; California; New York City; Sun Belt States (Us); Witherspoon, Reese; Nashville (Tenn); United States; Denver (Colo); Denny's Inc; Seattle (Wash); Wagner, Kate (Journalist); Landlords; Names, Geographical; Parking; News And News Media; Time; Poverty; Immigration And Emigration; Baptist Churches; Marijuana; Real Estate (Commercial); Urban Areas; Building (Construction); Income; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Art; Colleges And Universities; Names, Organizational; Typography; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Area Planning And Renewal; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Bars And Nightclubs; Gentrification; Restaurants; Shopping And Retail; Books And Literature; Brownstones; Historic Buildings And Sites; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Affordable Housing

Title: Bland, Yes. But They Satisfy a Lot of Needs.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 21, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-21 @ 18:46

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767511085

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bland-yes-they-satisfy-lot-needs/docview/2767511085/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Skinamarink: [Review]

Author: Catsoulis, Jeannette

Publication info: Catsoulis, Jeannette. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/skinamarink/docview/2764895801/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Two children are trapped in a shape-shifting home in this spookily impenetrable horror experiment.
"Where did it go?," a child whispers early in "Skinamarink," the unnerving debut feature from the Canadian writer and director Kyle Edward Ball. The child, Kevin (Lucas Paul), is referring to a window which has unaccountably vanished. He's only 4, and he and his 6-year-old sister, Kaylee (Dali Rose Tetreault), have awakened in the night to find that the lights don't work and objects in the home seem to be disappearing. And where are their parents?
With a plot so rudimentary as to be virtually nonexistent, this experimental and aggressively inscrutable horror movie is mesmerizing in its dearth of action. For long stretches, Jamie McRae's camera, adopting a child's-eye view, patrols shadowy hallways and crawls along floors, its eerie angles and haphazard exposure settings straining the eyes and disorienting the mind. Groans and other, stranger sounds mix with the children's panicked whispers, though their faces are mostly concealed. Time is unreliable, as is evident when a late title card forces a jolting reassessment.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Opening in 1995 and resembling a long-buried V.H.S. tape, "Skinamarink," with its scratchy silences and piggy bank-budget aesthetic, is chillingly surreal and infuriatingly repetitive. Yet Ball, expanding his 2020 short film, "Heck," holds us hostage: There's uncanny logic in his looping shots of pajama-clad legs and scattered Lego bricks, in the tinny jingle of cartoons on a flickering television screen. Like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle whose picture has long been lost, each scene promises a solution to the children's predicament if we can only find its place within the whole.
Ingeniously evoking a child's response to the inexplicable, "Skinamarink" sways on the border between dreaming and wakefulness, a movie as difficult to penetrate as it is to forget.
Skinamarink
Not rated. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. In theaters.
Photograph A scene from "Skinamarink," an inscrutable horror film from the Canadian writer and director Kyle Edward Ball. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IFC FILMS AND SHUDDER) This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Horror films; Motion pictures

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/12/movies/skinamarink-review.html

Title: Skinamarink:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 13, 2023

column: Critic's Pick

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 2764895801

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/skinamarink/docview/2764895801/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Society Is Failing Visual Thinkers, and That Hurts Us All: [Op-Ed]

Author: Grandin, Temple

Publication info: Grandin, Temple. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/society-is-failing-visual-thinkers-that-hurts-us/docview/2764061494/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When I was younger, I believed that everybody thought in photo-realistic pictures the same way I did, with images clicking through my mind a little bit like PowerPoint slides or TikTok videos.
I had no idea that most people are more word-centric than I am. For many, it's words, not pictures, that shape thought. That's probably how our culture got to be so talky: Teachers lecture, religious leaders preach, politicians make speeches and we watch "talking heads" on TV. We call most of these people neurotypical -- they develop along predictable lines and communicate, for the most part, verbally.
I was born in the late 1940s just as the diagnosis of autism was being applied to kids like me. I had no language until age 4 and was first diagnosed as brain damaged. Today, many people would say that I'm neurodivergent -- a term that encompasses not only autism but also dyslexia, A.D.H.D. and other learning problems. The popularization of the term neurodivergence and society's growing understanding about the different ways that brains work are unquestionably positive developments for many individuals like me.
Still, many aspects of our society are not set up to allow visual thinkers -- which so many of us neurodivergent folks are -- to thrive. In fact, many aspects of our society seem set up specifically so we will fail. Schools force students into a one-size-fits-all curriculum. The workplace relies too much on résumés and G.P.A.s to assess candidates' worth. This must change not only because neurodivergent people, and all visual thinkers, deserve better but also because without a major shift in how we think about how we learn, American innovation will be stifled.
When I was 7 or 8, I spent hours tinkering and experimenting to figure out how to make parachutes, fashioned from old scarves, open more quickly each time I tossed them into the air. This required careful observation to determine how small design changes affected performance. My single-mindedness, verging on obsession, was probably because I was autistic. At the time I loved a book about famous inventors and their inventions. It impressed me that Thomas Edison and the Wright brothers were so single-minded in figuring out how to make a light bulb or an airplane. They spent lots of time obsessively perfecting their inventions. It is likely that some of the inventors in that book also were autistic.
We hear a great deal about the need to fix the infrastructure in this country, but we are too focused on the things that need improving and updating rather than the people who will be able to do the work. For over 25 years, I designed equipment to handle livestock and worked with the highly skilled people who built the equipment. When I look back at all the projects I designed for large companies, I estimate that 20 percent of the skilled welders and drafting technicians were autistic or dyslexic, or had A.D.H.D. I remember two people with autism and who held numerous patents for mechanical devices they invented and who sold equipment to many companies. Our visual thinking skills were key to our success.
Today, we want our students to be well rounded; we should think about making sure that the education we provide is as well. At the same time, I wager that the people who will fix America's infrastructure have spent hours and hours on one thing, whether it be Legos, violin or chess -- hyper-focus is a classic sign of neurodivergent thinking and it's critical for innovation and invention.
I often get asked what I would do to improve both elementary and high school. The first step would be to put more of an emphasis on hands-on classes such as art, music, sewing, woodworking, cooking, theater, auto mechanics and welding. I would have hated school if the hands-on classes had been removed, as so many have been today. These classes also expose students -- especially neurodivergent students -- to skills that could become a career. Exposure is key. Too many students are growing up who have never used a tool. They are completely removed from the world of the practical.
Despite my accomplishments, if I were a young person today, I would have difficulty graduating from high school because I could not pass algebra. It was too abstract, with no visual correlations. This is true for many of today's students who get labeled bad at math, students who might otherwise pass alternative math courses such as statistics that would also apply to real-life work situations. There is too much emphasis in school on testing and not enough on career outcomes. My poor performance on the math portion of the SAT prohibited me from getting into veterinary school, but today I am a university professor in animal sciences and I am invited to speak to groups of veterinarians to advise them on their work. The true measure of an education isn't what grades students get today, but where they are 10 years later.
I am often invited to give talks at corporations and government agencies, and the first thing I tell managers is that they need a neurodiverse work force. Complementary skills are the key to successful teams. We need the people who can build our trains and planes and internet, and the people who can make them run. Studies have shown that diverse teams will outperform homogeneous teams. If you've ever attended a meeting where nothing gets solved, it may be because there are too many people who think alike.
Today, Taiwan produces the majority of the world's highest tech silicon chips. Much of the specialized mechanical equipment used for processing meat is made in the Netherlands and Germany. When I visited the Steve Jobs Theater in California, pre-Covid, I discovered that the glass walls were created by an Italian company. The massive carbon fiber roof that looks like a spaceship was imported from Dubai.
The reason this equipment is coming from outside the United States can be traced in part to differences in educational systems. In Italy and the Netherlands, for instance, a student at about age 14 decides whether to go the university route or the vocational route. The vocational route is not looked down on or regarded as a lesser form of intelligence. And that's how it should be everywhere, because the skill sets of visual thinkers are essential to finding real-world solutions to society's many problems.
Temple Grandin is a professor of animal science at Colorado State University and the author of "Visual Thinking: The Hidden Gifts of People Who Think in Pictures, Patterns and Abstractions."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page A22.

ERIC Subject: Thinking Skills; Autism; Diagnostic Teaching; True Scores; Learning Problems; Equipment; Auto Mechanics; Intellectual Property; Visualization

Subject: Autism; Students; Dyslexia; Neurodiversity; Skills; Learning disabilities; Visual communication; Cognition & reasoning; Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/09/opinion/temple-grandin-visual-thinking-autism.html

Title: Society Is Failing Visual Thinkers, and That Hurts Us All:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 20 23

Publication date: Jan 12, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2764061494

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/society-is-failing-visual-thinkers-that-hurts-us/docview/2764061494/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Texas City Shaping the Future of Trade: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/texas-city-shaping-future-trade/docview/2761831851/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The teeming warehouses carved into the desert surrounding Laredo, Texas, attest to an explosion of trade between the United States and Mexico.
On a recent morning, 55-gallon drums full of chemicals concocted in Ohio awaited trucks that would haul them across the Rio Grande, for use as raw materials at a paint factory in Mexico's industrial city of Monterrey. Destined northbound, brake pads manufactured in Mexico were headed to trucking firms as far away as South Dakota.
The more trade expands, the greater the opportunities for Laredo, a sprawling city of over 250,000 people that has long been the dominant land port on the meandering border between the United States and Mexico. Now, it is poised to become an even more vital component of the global economy. American companies sobered by the supply chain upheavals of the pandemic and alarmed by the animosity between the United States and China are reducing their dependence on factories across the Pacific by shifting production to Mexico.
Already, about $ 800 million worth of products as diverse as auto parts, clothing and avocados pass through Laredo every day. That reality is underscored by the parade of trucks rumbling through, waiting -- often for hours -- for their chance to cross a bridge spanning the Rio Grande, the murky river dividing Texas from Mexico.
By nearly every indication, more goods are on the way, presenting customs brokers, freight handlers and trucking companies with a monumental opportunity.
"Everyone's been growing around here -- 10, 20, 30 percent every year," said Pablo Garza, 30, head of strategic planning at Akzent Logistics, which owns two warehouses in Laredo and is nearly finished constructing a third. "It's a hectic town. It's astonishing the amount of movement that the city sees in terms of freight."
During an event at City Hall last month, local officials celebrated a milestone -- data revealing that $ 27 billion worth of freight moved through Laredo in October, exceeding the flow through the twin ocean ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, Calif., the primary gateway for American imports.
The Southern California ports grew exponentially during an era of globalization centered on China. Laredo appears primed to assume a similar role in the anticipated next phase of globalization, one centered on regional supply chains, with American companies forging greater reliance on Mexico and Central America.
But the exhilaration comes tinged with anxiety as businesses and city leaders fret that the existing infrastructure -- a pair of commercial bridges spanning the Rio Grande, traffic-choked roads and a hive of warehouses -- could be overwhelmed by an influx of cargo.
"We've got to get ahead of this tsunami that's coming," said Laredo's then-mayor, Pete Saenz. "We're behind now."
A huge build-out is underway. North of the city, an army of excavators tore at the pale soil, turning ranch land dotted by cactus into industrial parks, warehouses and trucking yards on both sides of Interstate 35, the ribbon of pavement linking Mexico to the midsection of the United States and Canada.
Two million square feet of warehouse space is under construction in Laredo, according to Prologis, a real estate investment firm. That amounts to a 5 percent increase in space.
But with warehouses more than 98 percent occupied, the new facilities may be quickly filled.
"There's definitely a space issue in Laredo," Mr. Garza said. "Warehouses are full. We say no to clients a lot."
Goods traded between the United States and Mexico in 2021 exceeded $ 660 billion, an increase of nearly one-fifth from the previous year, according to U.S. census data. Trade expanded at a similar clip last year, according to available data.
Adding to the urgency is the widely held assumption that this is merely the beginning of what could be decades of growth in trade between the two neighboring countries, as American retailers seek suppliers in the same hemisphere as their customers.
"A lot of companies are no longer willing to chase cheap labor at the cost of getting their goods to customers on time," said Gene Lindgren, president of the Laredo Economic Development Corporation, which courts investment for projects in the area. "China's so big that just taking a tiny little slice and putting it in Mexico is huge for Laredo."
Four years ago, the U.S. Department of Transportation projected steep increases in trucks passing through Laredo, with southbound border crossings alone reaching 9,800 by 2025. Traffic reached that level by the end of 2021, four years earlier than anticipated.
"All the projections are behind," said Glafiro Montemayor, president of Gemco, another Laredo-based freight handler. He noted that goods crossing the border had more than doubled since 2000 without the addition of major infrastructure.
"Laredo is full of trucks," he added. "How are you going to handle it?"
Mr. Montemayor is raising funding for a project presented as the answer to that question: a $ 360 million bridge crossing the Rio Grande south of Laredo. The customs process would be handled jointly by American and Mexican authorities, entailing only one inspection. That would allow trucks to complete the crossing within 30 minutes.
The Mexican government has already approved the project, Mr. Montemayor said, while the U.S. State Department is nearing the completion of its own review.
His plan is a linchpin to a logistics hub that could provide an alternative to excessive reliance on major ports like Los Angeles, the scene of torturous floating traffic jams during the worst months of the pandemic.
Nearly two-thirds of the containers reaching ocean ports on the West Coast of the United States are destined for the middle of the country and the East Coast -- regions reached more easily by rail and truck from Laredo, Mr. Montemayor said.
Already, some American companies importing goods from Asia are bypassing the docks in Southern California and shipping instead to Manzanillo, on Mexico's Pacific coast. From there, they move containers north to Laredo en route to destinations across North America.
Kansas City Southern, the giant railroad, picks up containers arriving from Asia at the port of Lázaro Cárdenas, in the Mexican state of Michoacán, and carries them north. The company recently broke ground on a $ 100 million project that will double the capacity of a rail bridge spanning the Rio Grande.
At the same time, Mexican authorities are pursuing their own plans to ease the flow of goods across the border.
At the City Hall event, Mayor Saenz appeared with officials from the Mexican state of Nuevo León, on the opposite bank of the Rio Grande. There, a young, development-minded governor, Samuel García, is promising to upgrade highways linking Monterrey to the border as part of an aggressive courtship of foreign investment.
The highway project is aimed at increasing the appeal of a now largely spurned Rio Grande crossing, the Colombia bridge, a 40-minute drive from the warehouses and distribution centers in Laredo. More than 80 percent of the cross-border truck traffic opts for the far closer World Trade bridge.
Given the typically horrendous congestion on the roads leading to the World Trade bridge, Nuevo León is betting that it can entice more traffic to the Colombia crossing by easing passage from that span to Monterrey.
Demand for the Colombia bridge appears destined to accelerate.
Tesla is expected to announce plans to locate a new electric vehicle plant within the Mexican state, shipping completed vehicles to the United States and Canada. Lego operates its largest factory in Nuevo León, using the Colombia bridge to ship finished products directly to warehouses in Texas.
In Laredo, business interests and local government officials accuse state and federal authorities of jeopardizing the opportunities for the region by withholding funds needed to expand the surrounding highway system.
They complain that the Texas Department of Transportation bases highway funding on population size -- a process that favors major cities like Dallas and Houston -- even though the traffic passing through Laredo supports jobs at retailers and warehouses across the state and beyond.
Over the decades, Laredo has grown in rings, each distinguished by its distance from the Rio Grande.
Smack against the river in the old downtown, the pastel shades of Mexico visible on the opposite shore, storefronts lie abandoned.
What businesses remain highlight desperation -- bail bonds agents, plasma collection centers offering cash for bodily fluid, pawnshops.
Border patrol officers sit in their vehicles on a bluff looking down on the thigh-deep water.
A mile away from the river, alongside railroad tracks, the first generation of warehouses sit idle, the sun gleaming off their siding.
Nine miles to the north, at the Killam industrial park, trucks hauling 53-foot trailers pull in and out of sleek, modern warehouses, carrying goods moving north and south.
Mr. Garza's family business occupies two of these structures. Its freight forwarding business is largely devoted to moving auto parts.
On a recent morning, orange plastic crates holding seals for car doors made in Alabama were arrayed on wooden pallets, en route to an assembly plant in Mexico.
Transmission parts produced in Illinois and headed for a factory in Monterrey were stacked in a pile under a laminated white card marked "Expedited."
"They will be out by the end of the day," Mr. Garza said. "'Urgent' is a very common word around here."
A forward-thinker by nature, Mr. Garza, whose only child is still a baby, confidently describes plans to have three more.
He brings the same state of mind to surveying the terrain four miles up the interstate, looking for an empty plot that his company can buy and turn into more warehouses.
"We need to buy land now and build later," he said.
Photograph Vacant storefronts in Laredo, Texas. A boom in U.S.-Mexico commerce is helping to turn the border city into an even more vital hub. Already, about $ 800 million worth of goods pass through it every day.; Two million square feet of warehouse space is said to be under construction in Laredo. Such facilities in the region are more than 98 percent occupied. (B1); The Laredo--Colombia Solidarity International Bridge, top left. Demand for the bridge, which spans the Rio Grande, is destined to increase. Loading avocado crates onto a truck in Tancítaro, Mexico, middle left. Goods traded between the U.S. and Mexico in 2021 exceeded $ 660 billion, up nearly one-fifth from the previous year. A scrap metal processing plant in Laredo, left. The recycled metal is reused in Mexico. Kansas City Southern, the giant railroad, recently broke ground on a $ 100 million project that doubles capacity on a bridge, top, that spans the Rio Grande, as does the The World Trade International Bridge, above. Over 80 percent of the region's cross-border truck traffic traverses the World Trade bridge, which is close to the warehouses and distribution centers in Laredo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARTER JOHNSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4-B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4, B5.

Subject: Ports; Pandemics; Roads & highways; Trucks; Transportation planning; Warehouses; Bridges; Globalization; Traffic congestion; Border patrol; Trucking industry; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Ports Warehouses Globalization Trucking industry Factories

Location: Mexico; Texas; United States--US; Canada; Southern California; China; Los Angeles California; Asia; Colombia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/05/business/us-mexico-trade-laredo.html

Title: A Texas City Shaping the Future of Trade:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761831851

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/texas-city-shaping-future-trade/docview/2761831851/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How a Texas Border City Is Shaping the Future of Global Trade

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-texas-border-city-is-shaping-future-global/docview/2761785275/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LAREDO, Texas — The teeming warehouses carved into the desert surrounding Laredo attest to an explosion of trade between the United States and Mexico.
On a recent morning, 55-gallon drums full of chemicals concocted in Ohio awaited trucks that would haul them across the Rio Grande, for use as raw materials at a paint factory in Mexico’s industrial city of Monterrey. Destined northbound, brake pads manufactured in Mexico were headed to trucking firms as far away as South Dakota.
The more trade expands, the greater the opportunities for Laredo, a sprawling city of over 250,000 people that has long been the dominant land port on the meandering border between the United States and Mexico. Now, it is poised to become an even more vital component of the global economy. American companies sobered by the supply-chain upheavals of the pandemic and alarmed by the animosity between the United States and China are reducing their dependence on factories across the Pacific by shifting production to Mexico.
Already, about $800 million worth of products as diverse as auto parts, clothing and avocados pass through Laredo every day. That reality is underscored by the parade of trucks rumbling through, waiting — often for hours — for their chance to cross a bridge spanning the Rio Grande, the murky river dividing Texas from Mexico.
By nearly every indication, more goods are on the way, presenting customs brokers, freight handlers and trucking companies with a monumental opportunity.
“Everyone’s been growing around here — 10, 20, 30% every year,” said Pablo Garza, 30, head of strategic planning at Akzent Logistics, which owns two warehouses in Laredo and is nearly finished constructing a third. “It’s a hectic town. It’s astonishing the amount of movement that the city sees in terms of freight.”
During an event at City Hall last month, local officials celebrated a milestone — data revealing that $27 billion worth of freight moved through Laredo in October, exceeding the flow through the twin ocean ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, California, the primary gateway for American imports.
The Southern California ports grew exponentially during an era of globalization centered on China. Laredo appears primed to assume a similar role in the anticipated next phase of globalization, one centered on regional supply chains, with American companies forging greater reliance on Mexico and Central America.
But the exhilaration comes tinged with anxiety as businesses and city leaders fret that the existing infrastructure — a pair of commercial bridges spanning the Rio Grande, traffic-choked roads and a hive of warehouses — could be overwhelmed by an influx of cargo.
“We’ve got to get ahead of this tsunami that’s coming,” said Laredo’s then-mayor, Pete Saenz. “We’re behind now.”
A huge build-out is underway. North of the city, an army of excavators tore at the pale soil, turning ranch land dotted by cactus into industrial parks, warehouses and trucking yards on both sides of Interstate 35, the ribbon of pavement linking Mexico to the midsection of the United States and Canada.
Some 2 million square feet of warehouse space is under construction in Laredo, according to Prologis, a real estate investment firm. That amounts to a 5% increase in space.
But with warehouses more than 98% occupied, the new facilities may be quickly filled.
“There’s definitely a space issue in Laredo,” Garza said. “Warehouses are full. We say no to clients a lot.”
Goods traded between the United States and Mexico in 2021 exceeded $660 billion, an increase of nearly one-fifth from the previous year, according to U.S. census data. Trade expanded at a similar clip last year, according to available data.
Adding to the urgency is the widely held assumption that this is merely the beginning of what could be decades of growth in trade between the two neighboring countries, as American retailers seek suppliers in the same hemisphere as their customers.
“A lot of companies are no longer willing to chase cheap labor at the cost of getting their goods to customers on time,” said Gene Lindgren, president of the Laredo Economic Development Corp., which courts investment for projects in the area. “China’s so big that just taking a tiny little slice and putting it in Mexico is huge for Laredo.”
Four years ago, the U.S. Department of Transportation projected steep increases in trucks passing through Laredo, with southbound border crossings alone reaching 9,800 by 2025. Traffic reached that level by the end of 2021, four years earlier than anticipated.
“All the projections are behind,” said Glafiro Montemayor, president of Gemco, another Laredo-based freight handler. He noted that goods crossing the border had more than doubled since 2000 without the addition of major infrastructure.
“Laredo is full of trucks,” he added. “How are you going to handle it?”
Montemayor is raising funding for a project presented as the answer to that question: a $360 million bridge crossing the Rio Grande south of Laredo. The customs process would be handled jointly by American and Mexican authorities, entailing only one inspection. That would allow trucks to complete the crossing within 30 minutes.
The Mexican government has already approved the project, Montemayor said, while the U.S. State Department is nearing the completion of its own review.
His plan is a linchpin to a logistics hub that could provide an alternative to excessive reliance on major ports like Los Angeles, the scene of torturous floating traffic jams during the worst months of the pandemic.
Nearly two-thirds of the containers reaching ocean ports on the West Coast of the United States are destined for the middle of the country and the East Coast — regions reached more easily by rail and truck from Laredo, Montemayor said.
Already, some American companies importing goods from Asia are bypassing the docks in Southern California and shipping instead to Manzanillo, on Mexico’s Pacific coast. From there, they move containers north to Laredo en route to destinations across North America.
Kansas City Southern, the giant railroad, picks up containers arriving from Asia at the port of Lázaro Cárdenas, in the Mexican state of Michoacán, and carries them north. The company recently broke ground on a $100 million project that will double the capacity of a rail bridge spanning the Rio Grande.
At the same time, Mexican authorities are pursuing their own plans to ease the flow of goods across the border.
At the City Hall event, Saenz appeared with officials from the Mexican state of Nuevo León, on the opposite bank of the Rio Grande. There, a young, development-minded governor, Samuel García, is promising to upgrade highways linking Monterrey to the border as part of an aggressive courtship of foreign investment.
The highway project is aimed at increasing the appeal of a now largely spurned Rio Grande crossing, the Colombia bridge, a 40-minute drive from the warehouses and distribution centers in Laredo. More than 80% of the cross-border truck traffic opts for the far closer World Trade bridge.
Given the typically horrendous congestion on the roads leading to the World Trade bridge, Nuevo León is betting that it can entice more traffic to the Colombia crossing by easing passage from that span to Monterrey.
Demand for the Colombia bridge appears destined to accelerate.
Tesla is expected to announce plans to locate a new electric vehicle plant within the Mexican state, shipping completed vehicles to the United States and Canada. Lego operates its largest factory in Nuevo León, using the Colombia bridge to ship finished products directly to warehouses in Texas.
In Laredo, business interests and local government officials accuse state and federal authorities of jeopardizing the opportunities for the region by withholding funds needed to expand the surrounding highway system.
They complain that the Texas Department of Transportation bases highway funding on population size — a process that favors major cities like Dallas and Houston — even though the traffic passing through Laredo supports jobs at retailers and warehouses across the state and beyond.
Over the decades, Laredo has grown in rings, each distinguished by its distance from the Rio Grande.
Smack against the river in the old downtown, the pastel shades of Mexico visible on the opposite shore, storefronts lie abandoned.
What businesses remain highlight desperation — bail bonds agents, plasma collection centers offering cash for bodily fluid, pawnshops.
Border Patrol officers sit in their vehicles on a bluff looking down on the thigh-deep water.
A mile away from the river, alongside railroad tracks, the first generation of warehouses sit idle, the sun gleaming off their siding.
Nine miles to the north, at the Killam industrial park, trucks hauling 53-foot trailers pull in and out of sleek, modern warehouses, carrying goods moving north and south.
Garza’s family business occupies two of these structures. Its freight forwarding business is largely devoted to moving auto parts.
On a recent morning, orange plastic crates holding seals for car doors made in Alabama were arrayed on wooden pallets, en route to an assembly plant in Mexico.
Transmission parts produced in Illinois and headed for a factory in Monterrey were stacked in a pile under a laminated white card marked “Expedited.”
“They will be out by the end of the day,” Garza said. “‘Urgent’ is a very common word around here.”
A forward-thinker by nature, Garza, whose only child is still a baby, confidently describes plans to have three more.
He brings the same state of mind to surveying the terrain 4 miles up the interstate, looking for an empty plot that his company can buy and turn into more warehouses.
“We need to buy land now and build later,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Ports; Pandemics; Trucks; Roads & highways; Transportation planning; Warehouses; Bridges; Globalization; Border patrol; Traffic congestion; Trucking industry; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Ports Warehouses Globalization Trucking industry Factories

Location: Mexico; Texas; United States--US; Canada; Southern California; China; Los Angeles California; Asia; Colombia

Identifier / keyword: Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Houston (Tex); Kansas; Alabama; Goodman, Peter S; South Dakota; Illinois; Ohio; Central America; North America; Prologis Inc; Interstate 35; Kansas City Southern; Long Beach (Calif); Saenz, Pedro I Jr; Canada; Los Angeles (Calif); State Department; China; Border Patrol (Us); Monterrey (Mexico); Nuevo Leon (Mexico); Dallas (Tex); California; Rio Grande River; Texas; Tesla Motors Inc; Transportation Department (Us); United States; Mexico; Laredo (Tex); Census; Infrastructure (Public Works); Ships And Shipping; United States Economy; Relocation Of Business; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Population; State Legislatures; Blood Donation; Corporations; Urban Areas; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Supply Chain; Roads And Traffic; Real Estate (Commercial); Freight (Cargo); Politics And Government; Bridges And Tunnels; Trucks And Trucking; Factories And Manufacturing; Warehouses; International Relations

Title: How a Texas Border City Is Shaping the Future of Global Trade

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-08 @ 18:38

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761785275

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-texas-border-city-is-shaping-future-global/docview/2761785275/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How a Texas Border City Is Shaping the Future of Global Trade

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-texas-border-city-is-shaping-future-global/docview/2760866629/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LAREDO, Texas — The teeming warehouses carved into the desert surrounding Laredo attest to an explosion of trade between the United States and Mexico.
On a recent morning, 55-gallon drums full of chemicals concocted in Ohio awaited trucks that would haul them across the Rio Grande, for use as raw materials at a paint factory in Mexico’s industrial city of Monterrey. Destined northbound, brake pads manufactured in Mexico were headed to trucking firms as far away as South Dakota.
The more trade expands, the greater the opportunities for Laredo, a sprawling city of over 250,000 people that has long been the dominant land port on the meandering border between the United States and Mexico. Now, it is poised to become an even more vital component of the global economy. American companies sobered by the supply-chain upheavals of the pandemic and alarmed by the animosity between the United States and China are reducing their dependence on factories across the Pacific by shifting production to Mexico.
Already, about $800 million worth of products, from auto parts to clothing to avocados, pass through Laredo every day. That reality is underscored by the parade of trucks rumbling through, waiting — often for hours — for their chance to cross a bridge spanning the Rio Grande, the murky river dividing Texas from Mexico.
By nearly every indication, more goods are on the way, presenting customs brokers, freight handlers and trucking companies with a monumental opportunity.
“Everyone’s been growing around here — 10, 20, 30% every year,” said Pablo Garza, 30, head of strategic planning at Akzent Logistics, which owns two warehouses in Laredo and is nearly finished constructing a third. “It’s a hectic town. It’s astonishing the amount of movement that the city sees in terms of freight.”
During an event at City Hall last month, local officials celebrated a milestone — data revealing that $27 billion worth of freight moved through Laredo in October, exceeding the flow through the twin ocean ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, California, the primary gateway for American imports.
The Southern California ports grew exponentially during an era of globalization centered on China. Laredo appears primed to assume a similar role in the anticipated next phase of globalization, one centered on regional supply chains, with American companies forging greater reliance on Mexico and Central America.
But the exhilaration comes tinged with anxiety as businesses and city leaders fret that the existing infrastructure — a pair of commercial bridges spanning the Rio Grande, traffic-choked roads and a hive of warehouses — could be overwhelmed by an influx of cargo.
“We’ve got to get ahead of this tsunami that’s coming,” said Laredo’s then-mayor, Pete Saenz. “We’re behind now.”
A huge build-out is underway. North of the city, an army of excavators tore at the pale soil, turning ranch land dotted by cactus into industrial parks, warehouses and trucking yards on both sides of Interstate 35, the ribbon of pavement linking Mexico to the midsection of the United States and Canada.
Some 2 million square feet of warehouse space is under construction in Laredo, according to Prologis, a real estate investment firm. That amounts to a 5% increase in space.
But with warehouses more than 98% occupied, the new facilities may be quickly filled.
“There’s definitely a space issue in Laredo,” Garza said. “Warehouses are full. We say no to clients a lot.”
Goods traded between the United States and Mexico in 2021 exceeded $660 billion, an increase of nearly one-fifth from the previous year, according to U.S. census data. Trade expanded at a similar clip last year, according to available data.
Adding to the urgency is the widely held assumption that this is merely the beginning of what could be decades of growth in trade between the two neighboring countries, as American retailers seek suppliers in the same hemisphere as their customers.
“A lot of companies are no longer willing to chase cheap labor at the cost of getting their goods to customers on time,” said Gene Lindgren, president of the Laredo Economic Development Corp., which courts investment for projects in the area. “China’s so big that just taking a tiny little slice and putting it in Mexico is huge for Laredo.”
Four years ago, the U.S. Department of Transportation projected steep increases in trucks passing through Laredo, with southbound border crossings alone reaching 9,800 by 2025. Traffic reached that level by the end of 2021, four years earlier than anticipated.
“All the projections are behind,” said Glafiro Montemayor, president of Gemco, another Laredo-based freight handler. He noted that goods crossing the border had more than doubled since 2000 without the addition of major infrastructure.
“Laredo is full of trucks,” he added. “How are you going to handle it?”
Montemayor is raising funding for a project presented as the answer to that question: a $360 million bridge crossing the Rio Grande south of Laredo. The customs process would be handled jointly by American and Mexican authorities, entailing only one inspection. That would allow trucks to complete the crossing within 30 minutes.
The Mexican government has already approved the project, Montemayor said, while the U.S. State Department is nearing the completion of its own review.
His plan is a linchpin to a logistics hub that could provide an alternative to excessive reliance on major ports like Los Angeles, the scene of torturous floating traffic jams during the worst months of the pandemic.
Nearly two-thirds of the containers reaching ocean ports on the West Coast of the United States are destined for the middle of the country and the East Coast — regions reached more easily by rail and truck from Laredo, Montemayor said.
Already, some American companies importing goods from Asia are bypassing the docks in Southern California and shipping instead to Manzanillo, on Mexico’s Pacific coast. From there, they move containers north to Laredo en route to destinations across North America.
Kansas City Southern, the giant railroad, picks up containers arriving from Asia at the port of Lázaro Cárdenas, in the Mexican state of Michoacán, and carries them north. The company recently broke ground on a $100 million project that doubles capacity on a rail bridge spanning the Rio Grande.
At the same time, Mexican authorities are pursuing their own plans to ease the flow of goods across the border.
At the City Hall event, Saenz appeared with officials from the Mexican state of Nuevo León, on the opposite bank of the Rio Grande. There, a young, development-minded governor, Samuel García, is promising to upgrade highways linking Monterrey to the border as part of an aggressive courtship of foreign investment.
The highway project is aimed at increasing the appeal of a now largely spurned Rio Grande crossing, the Colombia bridge, a 40-minute drive from the warehouses and distribution centers in Laredo. More than 80% of the cross-border truck traffic opts for the far closer World Trade bridge.
Given the typically horrendous congestion on the roads leading to the World Trade bridge, Nuevo León is betting that it can entice more traffic to the Colombia crossing by easing passage from that span to Monterrey.
Demand for the Colombia bridge appears destined to accelerate.
Tesla is expected to announce plans to locate a new electric vehicle plant within the Mexican state, shipping completed vehicles to the United States and Canada. Lego operates its largest factory in Nuevo León, using the Colombia bridge to ship finished products directly to warehouses in Texas.
In Laredo, business interests and local government officials accuse state and federal authorities of jeopardizing the opportunities for the region by withholding funds needed to expand the surrounding highway system.
They complain that the Texas Department of Transportation bases highway funding on population size — a process that favors major cities like Dallas and Houston — even though the traffic passing through Laredo supports jobs at retailers and warehouses across the state and beyond.
Over the decades, Laredo has grown in rings, each distinguished by its distance from the Rio Grande.
Smack against the river in the old downtown, the pastel shades of Mexico visible on the opposite shore, storefronts lie abandoned.
What businesses remain highlight desperation — bail bonds agents, plasma collection centers offering cash for bodily fluid, pawnshops.
Border Patrol officers sit in their vehicles on a bluff looking down on the thigh-deep water.
A mile away from the river, alongside railroad tracks, the first generation of warehouses sit idle, the sun gleaming off their siding.
Nine miles to the north, at the Killam industrial park, trucks hauling 53-foot trailers pull in and out of sleek, modern warehouses, carrying goods moving north and south.
Garza’s family business occupies two of these structures. Its freight forwarding business is largely devoted to moving auto parts.
On a recent morning, orange plastic crates holding seals for car doors made in Alabama were arrayed on wooden pallets, en route to an assembly plant in Mexico.
Transmission parts produced in Illinois and headed for a factory in Monterrey were stacked in a pile under a laminated white card marked “Expedited.”
“They will be out by the end of the day,” Garza said. “‘Urgent’ is a very common word around here.”
A forward-thinker by nature, Garza, whose only child is still a baby, confidently describes plans to have three more.
He brings the same state of mind to surveying the terrain 4 miles up the interstate, looking for an empty plot that his company can buy and turn into more warehouses.
“We need to buy land now and build later,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Ports; Pandemics; Roads & highways; Trucks; Transportation planning; Warehouses; Bridges; Globalization; Traffic congestion; Border patrol; Trucking industry; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Ports Warehouses Globalization Trucking industry Factories

Location: Mexico; Texas; United States--US; Canada; Southern California; China; Los Angeles California; Asia; Colombia

Identifier / keyword: Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Houston (Tex); Kansas; Alabama; Goodman, Peter S; South Dakota; Illinois; Ohio; Central America; North America; Prologis Inc; Interstate 35; Kansas City Southern; Long Beach (Calif); Saenz, Pedro I Jr; Canada; Los Angeles (Calif); State Department; China; Border Patrol (Us); Monterrey (Mexico); Nuevo Leon (Mexico); Dallas (Tex); California; Rio Grande River; Texas; Tesla Motors Inc; Transportation Department (Us); United States; Mexico; Laredo (Tex); Census; Infrastructure (Public Works); Ships And Shipping; United States Economy; Relocation Of Business; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Population; State Legislatures; Blood Donation; Corporations; Urban Areas; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Supply Chain; Roads And Traffic; Real Estate (Commercial); Freight (Cargo); Politics And Government; Bridges And Tunnels; Trucks And Trucking; Factories And Manufacturing; Warehouses; International Relations

Title: How a Texas Border City Is Shaping the Future of Global Trade

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-05 @ 17:52

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2760866629

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-texas-border-city-is-shaping-future-global/docview/2760866629/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions