____________________________________________________________

Ex-Treasury Official Named To Lead Economic Advisers: [National Desk]

Author: Friedman, Lisa

Publication info: Friedman, Lisa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-treasury-official-named-lead-economic-advisers/docview/3148793501/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Stephen Miran, who served during Donald Trump's first term and now works at a hedge fund, has accused the Biden administration of manipulating markets.
President-elect Donald J. Trump said on Sunday that he was choosing Stephen Miran, who served in the Treasury Department during Mr. Trump's first term, to lead the Council of Economic Advisers.
"Steve will work with the rest of my Economic team to deliver a Great Economic Boom that lifts up all Americans," Mr. Trump wrote in his announcement on social media.
The Council of Economic Advisers is a panel of experts that historically has operated within the White House, providing the president with advice on domestic and international economic policy.
Mr. Miran, whose role requires Senate confirmation, was a senior adviser for economic policy at the Treasury Department during Mr. Trump's first term, a role that included advising on fiscal support during the coronavirus pandemic.
He is now a senior strategist at Hudson Bay Capital Management, a hedge fund, and he contributed $ 2,000 to political action committees affiliated with Mr. Trump during the election.
"I look forward to working to help implement the President's policy agenda to create a booming, noninflationary economy that brings prosperity to all America," Mr. Miran wrote on social media on Sunday.
In July, Mr. Miran and Nouriel Roubini, a senior adviser at Hudson Bay Capital, wrote a paper accusing Janet Yellen, President Biden's Treasury secretary, of manipulating markets in order to clandestinely stimulate the economy.
Ms. Yellen said at the time that the paper "suggests a strategy that is intended to ease financial conditions, and I can assure you 100 percent that there is no such strategy. We have never, ever discussed anything of the sort."
Mr. Miran also has criticized Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, writing that it was "wrong politically and economically" to have urged Congress to pass a stimulus bill in October 2020.
This year, Mr. Miran donated $ 1,000 to a pro-Trump political action committee called Never Surrender, and another $ 1,000 to Trump 47, a joint fund-raising committee, according to federal campaign records.
A graduate of Boston University with a doctorate in economics from Harvard, Mr. Miran served as a fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative think tank, before joining Hudson Bay in February. He is also a co-founder of Amberwave Partners, an investment adviser firm, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Since the election, Mr. Miran has expressed strong support for Mr. Trump's stepped-up threats of tariffs, which the president-elect has made against China, Canada and the European Union.
"I'm thrilled that President Trump is already using tariffs to gain negotiating leverage to improve security outcomes for Americans," he wrote in November. "About time we actually tackled problems instead of letting them slide."
In an interview this month, Mr. Miran said Mr. Trump's decisive election win gave him a "strong mandate for pursuing what he said he was going to do, a major portion of which is to restructure the global trading system to make it more fair for Americans."
Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington.
Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Political campaigns; Presidents; Economic policy; Hedge funds; Social networks; Federal legislation; Tariffs

Business indexing term: Subject: Economic policy Hedge funds Social networks Tariffs

Location: Hudson Bay

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: Council of Economic Advisers; NAICS: 926110; Name: Hudson Bay Capital Management LP; NAICS: 525910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/22/climate/trump-miran-council-of-economic-advisers.html

Title: Ex-Treasury Official Named To Lead Economic Advisers:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 24, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148793501

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-treasury-official-named-lead-economic-advisers/docview/3148793501/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 24, 2024

Last updated: 2025-02-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Treatment, Drugs and Death Followed Them: [Correction]

Author: Zhu, Alissa; Gallagher, Jessica; Cohn, Meredith

Publication info: Zhu, Alissa; Gallagher, Jessica; Cohn, Meredith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/treatment-drugs-death-followed-them/docview/3148793466/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Baltimore addiction programs draw patients with free housing while collecting millions. Some say one company offered little help.
Amanda Vlakos had been living for years in rat-infested abandoned buildings in Baltimore, fighting an addiction to opioids, when she learned of a possible escape: a drug-treatment program that offered patients free housing.
Sober when they arrived, Ms. Vlakos and her boyfriend were placed in a barely furnished two-bedroom apartment with a succession of strangers who often used drugs. She relapsed after a month. Roommates kicked in doors, flooded the bathroom and sold drugs out of their unit. Even some of the house managers got high, residents said.
On Sept. 5, after nearly two years in the program and with nowhere else to go, she sent a desperate text message to a former counselor. "I feel so helpless and alone," wrote Ms. Vlakos, 34. Two weeks later, she died of an overdose.
PHA Healthcare, the company whose program Ms. Vlakos entered, collects millions of dollars a year to treat hundreds of people struggling with addiction. But many of its patients have not gotten better. Instead, placed by the company in what are effectively government-funded drug houses, they have relapsed, fallen deeper into addiction and sometimes died, an investigation by The New York Times and The Baltimore Banner has found.
Baltimore's drug epidemic is the deadliest ever seen in a major American city. A Times/Banner examination in May showed that top city officials reacted with little urgency as the death rate mounted, letting key public health efforts stall.
But state health authorities have also made missteps. Trying to entice more providers into the drug treatment field, they poured money into recovery programs, barely vetted a flood of new operators and halted most in-person inspections. Providers who used unscrupulous practices joined the treatment system, diverting patients from longstanding companies.
The operators of PHA Healthcare had no significant experience providing drug treatment. But they built a multimillion-dollar business that appears to rely on a practice health officials described as both illegal and increasingly common in Baltimore: trading housing for treatment money.
The company rents apartment buildings, then offers free rooms to people -- many of them homeless -- if they attend its group counseling sessions. By taking no government money for housing, the business avoids the state's strict rules for regulated recovery facilities. But Medicaid pays more than $ 3,000 per patient for counseling each month. That has amounted to $ 15 million since PHA Healthcare opened in 2020, including $ 8.5 million last fiscal year alone.
Its counseling sessions, however, are offered only online and often involve watching irrelevant videos and answering repetitive questions for hours, some patients said. In recent months, they said, many sessions have been led by unlicensed counselors who logged in from Nigeria. Participants sometimes connect while visibly high.
Many of the apartment complexes are poorly maintained and ridden with drugs and crime. Residents are often overseen by untrained house managers, who have regularly ignored positive drug tests and overdoses. One even sold drugs to the patients, residents said.
PHA Healthcare's founder, Stephen Thomas, said not all the people it housed were also in the company's treatment. But 16 current or former patients said they understood the program to entail a clear exchange when they enrolled: To get a free place to live, they needed to attend the counseling.
The Times/Banner investigation -- drawing on interviews with dozens of current or former clients, employees and state officials, as well as reviews of public records -- showed that checking in to the company's care did not protect some of its patients from dire consequences.
Reporters traced the deaths of at least 13 people to PHA Healthcare since 2022 -- more than some other treatment providers said was typical. The dead include Ms. Vlakos; a 47-year-old house manager; a 45-year-old grandfather of six; and a 43-year-old former federal procurement contractor who had struggled with alcoholism before starting to use opioids.
The contractor, Fernando Rivera-Estrada, called his mother in January 2023 after less than a month in the program. "If I don't get out of Baltimore," he said, "I'm going to die." He fatally overdosed on fentanyl the next day.
In one especially grim case, a 32-year-old mother, Ashley Shaw, and her 13-month-old son, August, were found next to each other in a PHA Healthcare-run apartment. The woman, a patient in the treatment program, had died of cardiovascular disease worsened by chronic drug use. Her baby starved to death.
They were discovered by a maintenance man in February only after neighbors urged him to look in on the apartment. No one from the program had seen the family for two weeks, according to a medical examiner's report.
More than a year earlier, state regulators learned that PHA Healthcare had been operating with an expired license for almost two years and told the company to stop treating patients. But the state then allowed it to obtain a new license, using a different address, and kept paying it, a Health Department spokesman said. Since then, the company has had its most profitable, and deadliest, years.
Told some of these details in an interview, Maryland's health secretary, Dr. Laura Herrera Scott, said conditions at PHA Healthcare sounded "just horrifying."
"That's not the care that we want to provide for anyone," she said.
The state does not disclose information about serious incidents -- including overdoses and deaths -- at drug treatment programs, and Dr. Herrera Scott declined to say whether the Maryland Health Department had ever investigated the company. The state halted new license applications this year and stepped up inspections for the types of outpatient treatment programs that are most often associated with unregulated housing.
After repeated requests for comment on the findings of the article, a spokeswoman for Mr. Thomas responded on Thursday that many of the statements about the company were "completely false" or "taken out of context." But she said she would need a couple of weeks to answer questions about the company.
In an October interview, Mr. Thomas said that stable housing was important to recovery, and that people struggling with addiction deserved to be encouraged -- not forced -- to get sober. While some clients may have exploited the autonomy the program gives them, many more have used it to lead productive lives, he asserted.
He said that group counseling sessions were led by interns from other countries who had extensive experience in addiction treatment and advanced degrees, and were working to get licensed in Maryland.
"I believe we're the best of the best," he said. "Do we have shortcomings? Can someone come in with a fine-toothed comb and try to find something that isn't perfect? I'm sure they can. I stand by what we do here every day."
Troubling Conditions
Faith Schauber and her boyfriend enrolled at PHA Healthcare in fall 2023 and were placed in the same complex where Ms. Vlakos would later die. Multiple times a day, Ms. Schauber walked down the block to buy drugs, she said. She and her boyfriend sometimes got high during group counseling.
"If our cameras were on, we would, like, step in the hallway, hit our crack pipes or shoot up and then go back to group," Ms. Schauber, 37, recalled.
Ms. Schauber, a former Sunday school teacher from Maryland's rural Eastern Shore, said she had been getting out of a bad relationship in 2015 when she first took a pain pill. That marked the beginning of her addiction to opioids and cocaine. She moved to Baltimore six years ago for treatment but has struggled with frequent relapses.
Ms. Schauber and her boyfriend arrived at PHA Healthcare while taking Suboxone, a medication to treat their opioid addiction. When they ran out, their house manager, instead of helping them refill their prescriptions, told her to buy the medication off the street, she said. Unable to afford the black-market price, the couple began using fentanyl offered by roommates.
Over one 10-day period, Ms. Schauber said, she overdosed six times. Her boyfriend and other patients administered Narcan and called 911. She told the house manager about the overdoses, but no one gave her extra help, she said. She later left the program.
All 16 patients of PHA Healthcare interviewed by reporters described using drugs in the treatment program or being placed in housing with people who did.
Three patients said they liked PHA Healthcare and were grateful for a place to live that did not have the same restrictions as other treatment programs, which often enforce strict schedules and require patients to temporarily cut off contact with their family and partners. They attributed any problems to residents they said were only interested in getting high. Another patient, while critical of the business, recounted generous gestures by its leaders, such as helping some patients with moving costs and organizing a free trip to the National Zoo in Washington for families with children.
But all the patients pointed to troubling conditions in the buildings. Police reports, 311 complaints and patients' text messages detailed thefts, assaults, pests, mildew, power outages, leaks and plumbing problems that forced people to urinate in buckets.
Mr. Thomas said that any housing complaints were quickly addressed and that he sometimes paid for maintenance and pest control out of his own pocket, even though his company did not own the properties.
The residences -- at least 15 in recent years -- were mostly scattered across West Baltimore and ranged from a five-building complex to single-family rowhouses. In a text message last year to a former employee, Mr. Thomas said PHA Healthcare housed 300 adults and more than 50 children at a cost of over $ 200,000 a month. (It also serves some patients elsewhere in the state, Mr. Thomas said.)
Though the company bills Medicaid for its group sessions, it was not clear that all the people who led them were qualified, patients said. Several of their LinkedIn profiles show they have no prior experience in addiction treatment, and their names do not appear on Maryland's list of approved counselors or trainees. Some live in other countries, which is unusual, treatment experts said. One seems to have worked as a human resources consultant in Nigeria. Another, also in Nigeria, describes himself as a "public relations enthusiast." Some patients said it was hard to relate to counselors who lived thousands of miles away.
Relapses, overdoses and even deaths happen on occasion at treatment programs; patients with long-term drug addictions often have other health issues, and it is impossible to know whether any person would have survived outside the program. Even so, the number of deaths at PHA Healthcare alarmed representatives of some established drug treatment providers -- including large residential programs -- who said they had no fatalities in many years, and rarely if ever more than two or three. Bernard Gyebi-Foster, who leads Tuerk House, one of Baltimore's most prominent programs, said he recalled no more than five patient deaths in 13 years.
More rigorous programs routinely take precautions that PHA Healthcare did inconsistently. Clients must undergo regular drug tests. Houses are stocked with the overdose-reversal drug Narcan. People caught bringing in narcotics are offered additional treatment or kicked out. Patients can see their counselors in person and are connected with both a mental health professional and a physician who can prescribe medications that curb drug cravings. Some programs check on patients multiple times a day, and even throughout the night.
At PHA Healthcare, residents said, it is possible to go for weeks without being seen.
Ms. Shaw, the 32-year-old mother who died, grew up in Baltimore's Park Heights neighborhood, graduated from Edmondson-Westside High School and worked in security, said Dominic Shaw, her brother. In recent years she struggled to find stable housing, he said.
Ms. Shaw was outgoing and enjoyed chatting on the front stoop of her apartment building, her neighbors recalled. But by January, she had been struggling for months, said Star Halsey, who lived in the unit next door and sometimes watched Ms. Shaw's baby, August. Ms. Shaw stopped cleaning, drank heavily and started covering her windows with cardboard to block out sunlight.
PHA Healthcare ran only three units in the small building where Ms. Shaw had been placed, and there was no house manager, Ms. Halsey said. When Ms. Shaw stopped coming out of her apartment one day, no one visited her until concerned residents reported a smell wafting through the building.
The maintenance man found mother and child lying on a bed in a room cluttered with cardboard boxes, piles of clothes and a crib. The 13-month-old was wearing a green onesie, a pacifier dangling from it.
According to a medical examiner's report, Ms. Shaw had tested positive for cocaine two weeks earlier. The report said that was the last time anyone from the company saw her.
Mr. Thomas also came to the apartment the morning they were found. He called it one of the worst days of his life. He said it had been days, not weeks, since Ms. Shaw and August had been seen. In the aftermath, he said, he moved families at all of his houses to one complex where a house manager checked on them daily.
But he did not report the two deaths to health authorities. Because the program offers outpatient services, he said, it is only required to report "treatment-related deaths," or fatalities that occur while a client is getting counseling. In other words, for the program to inform the state, someone would have to die on a video call.
'Spinning Out of Control'
Long before she and her boyfriend entered PHA Healthcare, Ms. Vlakos grew up in a town south of Baltimore, near the airport. As a girl she rode horses, cared for stray animals and babysat children whose parents came to her church's 12-step meetings. But she was raped by an acquaintance at age 12, began using heroin in her late teens to dull the trauma and suicidal thoughts, and eventually moved to Baltimore for treatment, then drugs, said her mother, Angela Vlakos.
After enrolling in PHA Healthcare, Ms. Vlakos filled coloring books with vibrant markers and hung the pages on her walls. She bought zinnia seeds and tried to cultivate an indoor garden before the flowers, barely sprouted, were stolen by other residents.
One bright spot was Ms. Vlakos's counselor, Emily Dommartin, who had a master's degree in social work and was paid $ 1,200 a week to lead group and one-on-one sessions online. Ms. Dommartin lived in New York, but as many as 60 clients flocked to her Zoom meetings. She held "Goal Wednesdays," when clients shared their progress toward milestones like getting a driver's license or seeing a child again.
In private, some relayed disturbing anecdotes. One texted that she was dealing with an infestation and "the roaches are biting my babies." Another said that a program staff member had tried to sexually assault her, Ms. Dommartin said.
Ms. Dommartin grew so concerned that last January, she drove to Baltimore to meet her patients in person. But her bosses brought them to meet her at the program's headquarters. She believed they did not want her to see how her patients lived, she said.
A month later, she got a call from Mr. Thomas. He'd heard she had concerns about the program and asked what could be improved, she recalled. She provided a list: The ramshackle housing in drug-ridden communities. The lack of detox services. Irregular drug testing. She said she was fired two days later without explanation.
Ms. Dommartin kept in touch with Ms. Vlakos, who seemed to be doing well. The patient was hired at the day care of a local gym and interviewed for an affordable-housing voucher, after years on a wait-list, that could pay for an apartment.
But the problems at PHA Healthcare continued to pull Ms. Vlakos down. She grew frustrated during sessions led by her new counselor, who played videos recapping the history of the fentanyl crisis or showing herself walking through the city in Nigeria where she lived.
Then Ms. Vlakos's boyfriend, Dillon Broadwater, was arrested after fighting with their roommates, according to a police report.
In one of her final texts to Ms. Dommartin, sent this September, Ms. Vlakos wrote, "I am spinning out of control." She said that her thoughts were racing and that she needed counseling. "I prayed so hard for God to help me and I woke up to a text from you," she said.
Two weeks later, a roommate found her dead in her bedroom. The plywood-boarded building they were staying in was in such disarray that a police officer said it looked abandoned.
Two months later, Mr. Broadwater picked up a growing stack of envelopes delivered to a local nonprofit they used as a mailing address. He opened one letter and discovered that it held Ms. Vlakos's housing choice voucher, her long-awaited ticket out of PHA Healthcare.
An Opportunity in Baltimore
Raised in New York by his mother and her aunt, Mr. Thomas spent his early years at elite schools. He graduated in the top 10 percent of his high school class, then studied political science at Tufts University, according to records his lawyer would later file in court. He enrolled at Georgetown Law, dropped out, then worked as a financial adviser at Salomon Smith Barney, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley.
In 2003, in his early 30s, he started a private equity firm in Washington that specialized in corporate takeovers and converting companies to be employee-owned.
A couple of years later, he helped two companies in Maine restructure under that model. The companies took on debt to buy out their owners on the employees' behalf; then Mr. Thomas hired himself to operate them as the employees' trustee.
But he used the companies for personal gain, the U.S. Labor Department and federal prosecutors would allege. He took out a loan at one company for a $ 230,000 down payment on a house, prosecutors said. Over two years at the other company -- Gagne Precast Concrete Products, a family-owned business just outside Bangor, Maine -- he withdrew cash, seized checks and transferred money to another business he controlled. He diverted at least $ 1.1 million, the Labor Department said.
The company began missing loan payments, and in 2008, after about 25 years in business, it was seized by a bank. The employees all lost their jobs, recalled Dan Sinclair, who handled Gagne Precast's inventory. "He destroyed families," he said.
Mr. Thomas was sued in 2011 by the Labor Department for allegedly mismanaging the employee ownership funds he had created; he settled the case, paid back at least $ 300,000 and accepted a 10-year ban on doing similar work. The next year, he was indicted on a charge of tax evasion. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 18 months in prison.
During his incarceration, he lost his marriage and his business. But he also found new opportunities, Mr. Thomas said in an interview. Men who were tired of stories of gun violence and drug dealing wanted to hear Mr. Thomas talk about building companies. In turn, "they said that Baltimore would be a place I could come, and opportunity would be there for me," Mr. Thomas recalled.
He was released in 2014, broke, and started a business in Baltimore.
He and his mother began to buy and renovate abandoned buildings in Park Heights, an impoverished neighborhood in northwest Baltimore, and called the venture Park Height's Angel Incorporated. In 2018, at least one of its homes had been certified by the Maryland Health Department as a drug addiction recovery residence, records show. That required well-maintained buildings, detailed staffing plans, inspections and regular drug tests for clients.
The company struggled. A year later, it filed for bankruptcy, claiming four properties and more than a million dollars in debt.
In 2020, Mr. Thomas started PHA Healthcare. He enlisted his mother, Ruby Thomas, now 77, and others with little or no experience in treatment to work with him.
Tayonna Jennings, 38, a woman Mr. Thomas had lived with, became real estate operations director, identifying landlords to rent from and overseeing house managers, according to former employees.
Danee Baxter, 32, a former event coordinator, became clinical director, her LinkedIn profile shows. But she was licensed as a trainee, not a full counselor, according to state records.
Humphrey Holmes, 39, was briefly in charge of hiring counselors. Mr. Thomas had met him in a federal halfway house after leaving prison; Mr. Holmes had pleaded guilty in 2012 to bank fraud after using fraudulent Social Security numbers to apply for loans and cash checks.
Gregory Heard, 58, a principal at a small New Jersey-based hedge fund, consulted on the company's business operations.
Ms. Thomas, Ms. Jennings and Ms. Baxter declined to comment or did not answer messages.
In an interview, Mr. Heard said the program's fast growth was an "incredible testimony to the depth and level of care we provide." When patients enroll, the program sends an Uber for them, he said, and a house manager greets them on the doorstep. "We are going to deliver the Ritz-Carlton experience."
Asked about drug use and violence at the properties, Mr. Heard said anyone caught doing drugs or instigating violence would be discharged.
Mr. Holmes said he had been managing a chain of prepaid-cellphone stores in 2022 when Mr. Thomas asked him to work as a contractor. Mr. Holmes had no experience in treatment but had family members who were addicted to drugs, and he wanted to help others. As time went on, he said, he saw patients were not getting the treatment they needed, and his bosses would not answer basic questions about the business's operations. He quit this year after many counselors were fired without explanation, he said.
Regulations 'Just Got Stuck'
There were warning signs about PHA Healthcare even before it opened.
In its license application in 2020, the program said it would treat 16 people. But its policy manual appeared to be written for a much larger organization with different services, noted its accreditation agency, the Joint Commission, which is best known for reviewing most U.S. hospitals.
Even so, 14 days later, the state approved the company's application.
At the time, the Health Department was straining to provide oversight of treatment programs.
In 2017, with a shortage of providers and rising overdose rates, Maryland began issuing licenses to virtually any company that had obtained preliminary accreditation from the Joint Commission or a similar agency -- an easing of rules few other states had undertaken. It began to rely on the agencies for inspections as well.
Then the administration of Gov. Larry Hogan -- a Republican who emphasized government efficiency and took office in 2015 -- stopped filling many open state positions, leaving the department with high vacancy rates.
In January 2020, a new contractor, Optum, rolled out broken technology that left the state unable to process Medicaid claims for addiction services. Maryland was forced to pay treatment providers based on educated guesses for nearly a year. Optum could not monitor or properly audit spending, and the Health Department stopped referring fraud cases to prosecutors.
Once Covid-19 arrived, auditors stopped visiting programs in person.
Signs mounted that some providers had been taking advantage.
In interviews, patients in other programs described being warehoused in bedrooms tightly packed with bunk beds, or forced to hand over food stamps to cover rent.
Some established operators said they began losing clients to upstart companies that left fliers at their doors and offered gift cards for enrolling. Patients came back with stories of abuse and exploitation, they said.
Established treatment companies also began hearing more examples of competitors providing free housing with outpatient counseling.
Federal kickback laws make it illegal for Medicaid providers to offer free housing to patients in exchange for enrolling in their government-funded treatment, former prosecutors and state health officials said. If a company does offer both housing and counseling, it must allow its tenants to get counseling elsewhere.
Housing some people who do not attend treatment does not on its own remove the problem, according to Eva Gunasekera, a former Justice Department lawyer who led investigations into health care fraud. Prosecutors may look at the percentage of residents in housing who are getting treatment from a company, and whether they were ever required to attend, she said.
Mr. Thomas said in an interview that PHA Healthcare had housed "many people" not in the company's treatment, and continued to house some after they stopped. It gave clients housing through a "separate but related entity" that he helped manage, he added.
State officials have heard rumors of similar arrangements since at least 2021, said Dr. Aliya Jones, who oversaw addiction treatment for Maryland from 2020 to 2022. In some cases, officials found out only after programs closed abruptly and left people homeless. But it was "a problem amongst a whole lot of other problems," she said.
Dr. Jones said her staff decided to discourage providers from running unregulated homes but could not recall whether other formal actions were taken. They tried to update the state's regulations, but "it just got stuck" on the desk of the health secretary then, Dennis Schrader, who was focused on the pandemic, she said.
There are two well-reimbursed types of outpatient treatment in which providers say some of their competitors offer free housing, including the main form PHA Healthcare provides. State spending on those services grew from $ 41 million annually in 2021 to nearly $ 144 million in 2024, or 43 percent of all state money for addiction treatment in Baltimore. Last fiscal year, PHA Healthcare alone accounted for 8 percent of all spending in the city on its main type of treatment.
In 2023, Dr. Herrera Scott was appointed by Gov. Wes Moore, a Democrat. She said she soon heard complaints about exploitative providers. She blamed Mr. Hogan's administration for stripping the Health Department of its "teeth."
A spokesman for Mr. Hogan, however, said the governor's office had not been told of problems with updating regulations or of issues surrounding PHA Healthcare.
"The Hogan administration prioritized expanding access to mental and behavioral health services and building a comprehensive statewide support system" during the pandemic, said Mike Ricci, the spokesman.
In July, the Health Department temporarily stopped issuing licenses for those categories of outpatient treatment. It expects to impose regulations next year to strengthen oversight and potentially require providers to obtain state approval for any recovery homes they operate.
The state took action after increasingly severe warnings about programs using illegal inducements to attract patients.
In September 2023, a Medicaid notice warned providers to stop "offering housing as an incentive" to draw patients into treatment.
"That is absolutely not legal," Spencer Gear, who oversees licensing at the state Behavioral Health Administration, told treatment providers during a meeting shortly after Maryland issued a second warning, in February. "We are seeing a very big problem" in some types of outpatient counseling, he added.
This October, Medicaid warned providers for a third time about illegal housing, now threatening to refer them for prosecution.
'A Narrative of Truth'
A few people tried complaining to local health officials about PHA Healthcare, to little effect.
After the death of Ms. Shaw and her baby this year, a former employee filed an online complaint about the company with Behavioral Health System Baltimore, a nonprofit that oversees treatment providers on behalf of the city, but got no response, the former employee said. The organization said it had no record of the complaint.
Kellijo Crosson, 42, who was enrolled at PHA Healthcare from April 2023 to June 2024, said she called the city's Health Department repeatedly about the program's family housing. She was told she had reached the wrong agency, and her voice mail messages were not returned. A lawyer she reached through the department's website suggested she hire an advocate, she said.
Nonetheless, this year, Mr. Thomas received a $ 150,000 grant through the city for creating housing for homeless people and addiction patients, he said. Ms. Jennings received an award from the City Council for her "relentless commitment to affordable housing development," a social media post shows.
The business last year began renting a suite in a downtown building overlooking the waterfront for more than $ 13,000 a month, but several of the offices sit empty.
Last Friday, PHA Healthcare filled the space with Christmas decorations, a catered lunch and a few dozen visitors. Among them were property owners looking to fill their buildings with treatment programs; State Senator Malcolm Augustine, a Democrat Mr. Thomas introduced as "a dear friend"; members of a public relations firm hired by Mr. Thomas who flew in from California and Georgia; and a handful of patients. The guest of honor was the television host Nick Cannon, who was on tour in Baltimore for his comedy show.
One patient in attendance -- who declined to be named and was not counted among the 16 the reporters interviewed -- said she had experienced violence and rape at other treatment programs. But after joining PHA Healthcare two years ago, she said, she stopped using drugs, and the company now pays her to clean its properties. "Other programs are like jail," she said, adding, "PHA is the only thing that saved me."
Facing the audience, Mr. Thomas admitted to making a mistake over the past several years: His company had not invested in a website, social media, business cards, shirts and hats. He said he believed if he focused on the people, the rest would take care of itself.
But now it was time to create "a narrative of truth," he said.
"I've heard people say: 'Hey, I know a person who's had a bad experience at PHA Healthcare. I know five, I know 10,"' he added. "But what about the thousands who we've turned around?"
Justin Fenton and Nick Thieme contributed reporting. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Justin Fenton and Nick Thieme contributed reporting. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Amanda Vlakos was found dead of an overdose this year while enrolled in a recovery program. (A1); Row homes where Ashley Shaw and her 13-month-old son, August, were found dead. She died of cardiovascular disease worsened by drug use, and he starved to death. Star Halsey, above right, who lived next to Ms. Shaw, said she noticed that Ms. Shaw had stopped cleaning and was drinking heavily. Left, a photograph of August. (A12); The apartment complex where Amanda Vlakos was living, and where her body was found. The police said the building looked as if it were abandoned. (A12-A13); Ms. Vlakos's mother, Angela, held back tears while speaking at a memorial service last month in Orchard Beach, Md., last month, above, and holding a photograph of her daughter. Ms. Vlakos's counselor, Emily Dommartin, below left, lived in New York. She was so worried about the program that she drove to Baltimore to meet her patients in person.; Faith Schauber in an abandoned rowhouse where she said she used to do drugs. Ms. Schauber, above left with a friend, moved to Baltimore six years ago for treatment but has struggled with relapses. Kellijo Crosson with her daughters, above right. She said complaints to the city about PHA Healthcare's family housing went nowhere.; Dr. Laura Herrera Scott, the state health secretary, described conditions at PHA Healthcare as "horrifying." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA GALLAGHER/THE BALTIMORE BANNER, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); An excerpt from a 2022 state regulatory letter telling PHA Healthcare that its license was suspended. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARYLAND DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH) (A13); Ruby Thomas, the mother of Stephen Thomas, who founded PHA Healthcare in 2020, working as a PHA Healthcare employee, though she and others there have little or no experience in treatment.; This year Mr. Thomas, above, received a $ 150,000 city grant. Gregory Heard, right, who consulted for the company, said fast growth was "testimony to the depth and level of care we provide."; Critics of Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan said he'd weakened the Health Department and stripped it of its "teeth."; Fernando Rivera-Estrada's sister touching a vial of her brother's ashes. He had called his mother, right, after weeks in the program saying he would die if he didn't get out of Baltimore. He fatally overdosed the next day. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA GALLAGHER/THE BALTIMORE BANNER, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12, A13, A14

Subject: Patients; Drug overdose; Fatalities; Addictions; Counseling; Fentanyl; Narcotics

Location: Baltimore Maryland; Maryland; United States--US

Title: In Treatment, Drugs and Death Followed Them:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 24, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--Un ited States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3148793466

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/treatment-drugs-death-followed-them/docview/3148793466/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Entered Treatment. Drugs, Overdoses and Deaths Followed.

Author: Zhu, Alissa; Gallagher, Jessica; Cohn, Meredith

Publication info: Zhu, Alissa; Gallagher, Jessica; Cohn, Meredith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-entered-treatment-drugs-overdoses-deaths/docview/3148733300/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

BALTIMORE — Amanda Vlakos had been living for years in rat-infested abandoned buildings in Baltimore, fighting an addiction to opioids, when she learned of a possible escape: a drug-treatment program that offered patients free housing.
Sober when they arrived, Vlakos and her boyfriend were placed in a barely furnished two-bedroom apartment with a succession of strangers who often used drugs. She relapsed after a month. Roommates kicked in doors, flooded the bathroom and sold drugs out of their unit. Even some of the house managers got high, residents said.
On Sept. 5, after nearly two years in the program and with nowhere else to go, she sent a desperate text message to a former counselor. “I feel so helpless and alone,” wrote Vlakos, 34. Two weeks later, she died of an overdose.
PHA Healthcare, the company whose program Vlakos entered, collects millions of dollars a year to treat hundreds of people struggling with addiction. But many of its patients have not gotten better. Instead, placed by the company in what are effectively government-funded drug houses, they have relapsed, fallen deeper into addiction and sometimes died, an investigation by The New York Times and The Baltimore Banner has found.
Baltimore’s drug epidemic is the deadliest ever seen in a major U.S. city. A Times/Banner examination in May showed that top city officials reacted with little urgency as the death rate mounted, letting key public health efforts stall.
But state health authorities have also made missteps. Trying to entice more providers into the drug treatment field, they poured money into recovery programs, barely vetted a flood of new operators and halted most in-person inspections. Providers who used unscrupulous practices joined the treatment system, diverting patients from long-standing companies.
The operators of PHA Healthcare had no significant experience providing drug treatment. But they built a multimillion-dollar business that appears to rely on a practice health officials described as both illegal and increasingly common in Baltimore: trading housing for treatment money.
The company rents apartment buildings, then offers free rooms to people — many of them homeless — if they attend its group counseling sessions. By taking no government money for housing, the business avoids the state’s strict rules for regulated recovery facilities. But Medicaid pays more than $3,000 per patient for counseling each month. That has amounted to $15 million since PHA Healthcare opened in 2020, including $8.5 million last fiscal year alone.
Its counseling sessions, however, are offered only online and often involve watching irrelevant videos and answering repetitive questions for hours, some patients said. In recent months, they said, many sessions have been led by unlicensed counselors who logged in from Nigeria. Participants sometimes connect while visibly high.
Many of the apartment complexes are poorly maintained and ridden with drugs and crime. Residents are often overseen by untrained house managers, who have regularly ignored positive drug tests and overdoses. One even sold drugs to the patients, residents said.
PHA Healthcare’s founder, Stephen Thomas, said not all the people it housed were also in the company’s treatment. But 16 current or former patients said they understood the program to entail a clear exchange when they enrolled: To get a free place to live, they needed to attend the counseling.
The Times/Banner investigation — drawing on interviews with dozens of current or former clients, employees and state officials, as well as reviews of public records — showed that checking in to the company’s care did not protect some of its patients from dire consequences.
Reporters traced the deaths of at least 13 people to PHA Healthcare since 2022 — more than some other treatment providers said was typical. The dead include Vlakos; a 47-year-old house manager; a 45-year-old grandfather of six; and a 43-year-old former federal procurement contractor who had struggled with alcoholism before starting to use opioids.
The contractor, Fernando Rivera-Estrada, called his mother in January 2023 after less than a month in the program. “If I don’t get out of Baltimore,” he said, “I’m going to die.” He fatally overdosed on fentanyl the next day.
In one especially grim case, a 32-year-old mother, Ashley Shaw, and her 13-month-old son, August, were found next to each other in a PHA Healthcare-run apartment. The woman, a patient in the treatment program, had died of cardiovascular disease worsened by chronic drug use. Her baby starved to death.
They were discovered by a maintenance man in February only after neighbors urged him to look in on the apartment. No one from the program had seen the family for two weeks, according to a medical examiner’s report.
More than a year earlier, state regulators learned that PHA Healthcare had been operating with an expired license for almost two years and told the company to stop treating patients. But the state then allowed it to obtain a new license, using a different address, and kept paying it, a Health Department spokesperson said. Since then, the company has had its most profitable, and deadliest, years.
Told some of these details in an interview, Maryland’s health secretary, Dr. Laura Herrera Scott, said conditions at PHA Healthcare sounded “just horrifying.”
“That’s not the care that we want to provide for anyone,” she said.
The state does not disclose information about serious incidents — including overdoses and deaths — at drug treatment programs, and Herrera Scott declined to say whether the Maryland Health Department had ever investigated the company. The state halted new license applications this year and stepped up inspections for the types of outpatient treatment programs that are most often associated with unregulated housing.
After repeated requests for comment on the findings of the article, a spokesperson for Thomas responded Thursday that many of the statements about the company were “completely false” or “taken out of context.” But she said she would need a couple of weeks to answer questions about the company.
In an October interview, Thomas said that stable housing was important to recovery and that people struggling with addiction deserved to be encouraged — not forced — to get sober. While some clients may have exploited the autonomy the program gives them, many more have used it to lead productive lives, he asserted.
He said that group counseling sessions were led by interns from other countries who had extensive experience in addiction treatment and advanced degrees and were working to get licensed in Maryland.
“I believe we’re the best of the best,” he said. “Do we have shortcomings? Can someone come in with a fine-toothed comb and try to find something that isn’t perfect? I’m sure they can. I stand by what we do here every day.”
Troubling Conditions
Faith Schauber and her boyfriend enrolled at PHA Healthcare in fall 2023 and were placed in the same complex where Vlakos would later die. Multiple times a day, Schauber walked down the block to buy drugs, she said. She and her boyfriend sometimes got high during group counseling.
“If our cameras were on, we would, like, step in the hallway, hit our crack pipes or shoot up and then go back to group,” Schauber, 37, recalled.
Schauber, a former Sunday school teacher from Maryland’s rural Eastern Shore, said she had been getting out of a bad relationship in 2015 when she first took a pain pill. That marked the beginning of her addiction to opioids and cocaine. She moved to Baltimore six years ago for treatment but has struggled with frequent relapses.
Schauber and her boyfriend arrived at PHA Healthcare while taking Suboxone, a medication to treat their opioid addiction. When they ran out, their house manager, instead of helping them refill their prescriptions, told her to buy the medication off the street, she said. Unable to afford the black-market price, the couple began using fentanyl offered by roommates.
Over one 10-day period, Schauber said, she overdosed six times. Her boyfriend and other patients administered Narcan and called 911. She told the house manager about the overdoses, but no one gave her extra help, she said. She later left the program.
All 16 patients of PHA Healthcare interviewed by reporters described using drugs in the treatment program or being placed in housing with people who did.
Three patients said they liked PHA Healthcare and were grateful for a place to live that did not have the same restrictions as other treatment programs, which often enforce strict schedules and require patients to temporarily cut off contact with their family and partners. They attributed any problems to residents they said were only interested in getting high. Another patient, while critical of the business, recounted generous gestures by its leaders, such as helping some patients with moving costs and organizing a free trip to the National Zoo in Washington for families with children.
But all the patients pointed to troubling conditions in the buildings. Police reports, 311 complaints and patients’ text messages detailed thefts, assaults, pests, mildew, power outages, leaks and plumbing problems that forced people to urinate in buckets.
Thomas said that any housing complaints were quickly addressed and that he sometimes paid for maintenance and pest control out of his own pocket, even though his company did not own the properties.
The residences — at least 15 in recent years — were mostly scattered across West Baltimore and ranged from a five-building complex to single-family row houses. In a text message last year to a former employee, Thomas said PHA Healthcare housed 300 adults and more than 50 children at a cost of over $200,000 a month. (It also serves some patients elsewhere in the state, Thomas said.)
Although the company bills Medicaid for its group sessions, it was not clear that all the people who led them were qualified, patients said. Several of their LinkedIn profiles show they have no prior experience in addiction treatment, and their names do not appear on Maryland’s list of approved counselors or trainees. Some live in other countries, which is unusual, treatment experts said. One seems to have worked as a human resources consultant in Nigeria. Another, also in Nigeria, describes himself as a “public relations enthusiast.” Some patients said it was hard to relate to counselors who lived thousands of miles away.
Relapses, overdoses and even deaths happen on occasion at treatment programs; patients with long-term drug addictions often have other health issues, and it is impossible to know whether any person would have survived outside the program. Even so, the number of deaths at PHA Healthcare alarmed representatives of some established drug treatment providers — including large residential programs — who said they had no fatalities in many years and rarely if ever more than two or three. Bernard Gyebi-Foster, who leads Tuerk House, one of Baltimore’s most prominent programs, said he recalled no more than five patient deaths in 13 years.
More rigorous programs routinely take precautions that PHA Healthcare did inconsistently. Clients must undergo regular drug tests. Houses are stocked with the overdose-reversal drug Narcan. People caught bringing in narcotics are offered additional treatment or kicked out. Patients can see their counselors in person and are connected with both a mental health professional and a physician who can prescribe medications that curb drug cravings. Some programs check on patients multiple times a day and even throughout the night.
At PHA Healthcare, residents said, it is possible to go for weeks without being seen.
Shaw, the 32-year-old mother who died, grew up in Baltimore’s Park Heights neighborhood, graduated Edmondson-Westside High School and worked in security, said Dominic Shaw, her brother. In recent years, she struggled to find stable housing, he said.
Shaw was outgoing and enjoyed chatting on the front stoop of her apartment building, her neighbors recalled. But by January, she had been struggling for months, said Star Halsey, who lived in the unit next door and sometimes watched Shaw’s baby, August. Shaw stopped cleaning, drank heavily and started covering her windows with cardboard to block out sunlight.
PHA Healthcare ran only three units in the small building where Shaw had been placed, and there was no house manager, Halsey said. When Shaw stopped coming out of her apartment one day, no one visited her until concerned residents reported a smell wafting through the building.
The maintenance man found mother and child lying on a bed in a room cluttered with cardboard boxes, piles of clothes and a crib. The 13-month-old was wearing a green onesie, a pacifier dangling from it.
According to a medical examiner’s report, Shaw had tested positive for cocaine two weeks earlier. The report said that was the last time anyone from the company saw her.
Thomas also came to the apartment the morning they were found. He called it one of the worst days of his life. He said it had been days, not weeks, since Shaw and August had been seen. In the aftermath, he said, he moved families at all of his houses to one complex where a house manager checked on them daily.
But he did not report the two deaths to health authorities. Because the program offers outpatient services, he said, it is only required to report “treatment-related deaths,” or fatalities that occur while a client is getting counseling. In other words, for the program to inform the state, someone would have to die on a video call.
‘Spinning Out of Control’
Long before she and her boyfriend entered PHA Healthcare, Vlakos grew up in a town south of Baltimore, near the airport. As a girl, she rode horses, cared for stray animals and babysat children whose parents came to her church’s 12-step meetings. But she was raped by an acquaintance at age 12, began using heroin in her late teens to dull the trauma and suicidal thoughts, and eventually moved to Baltimore for treatment, then drugs, said her mother, Angela Vlakos.
After enrolling in PHA Healthcare, Amanda Vlakos filled coloring books with vibrant markers and hung the pages on her walls. She bought zinnia seeds and tried to cultivate an indoor garden before the flowers, barely sprouted, were stolen by other residents.
One bright spot was Vlakos’ counselor, Emily Dommartin, who had a master’s degree in social work and was paid $1,200 a week to lead group and one-on-one sessions online. Dommartin lived in New York, but as many as 60 clients flocked to her Zoom meetings. She held “Goal Wednesdays,” when clients shared their progress toward milestones like getting a driver’s license or seeing a child again.
In private, some relayed disturbing anecdotes. One texted that she was dealing with an infestation and “the roaches are biting my babies.” Another said that a program staff member had tried to sexually assault her, Dommartin said.
Dommartin grew so concerned that last January, she drove to Baltimore to meet her patients in person. But her bosses brought them to meet her at the program’s headquarters. She believed they did not want her to see how her patients lived, she said.
A month later, she got a call from Thomas. He’d heard she had concerns about the program and asked what could be improved, she recalled. She provided a list: The ramshackle housing in drug-ridden communities. The lack of detox services. Irregular drug testing. She said she was fired two days later without explanation.
Dommartin kept in touch with Vlakos, who seemed to be doing well. The patient was hired at the day care of a local gym and interviewed for an affordable-housing voucher, after years on a waitlist, that could pay for an apartment.
But the problems at PHA Healthcare continued to pull Vlakos down. She grew frustrated during sessions led by her new counselor, who played videos recapping the history of the fentanyl crisis or showing herself walking through the city in Nigeria where she lived.
Then Vlakos’ boyfriend, Dillon Broadwater, was arrested after fighting with their roommates, according to a police report.
In one of her final texts to Dommartin, sent this September, Vlakos wrote, “I am spinning out of control.” She said that her thoughts were racing and that she needed counseling. “I prayed so hard for God to help me and I woke up to a text from you,” she said.
Two weeks later, a roommate found her dead in her bedroom. The plywood-boarded building they were staying in was in such disarray that a police officer said it looked abandoned.
Two months later, Broadwater picked up a growing stack of envelopes delivered to a local nonprofit they used as a mailing address. He opened one letter and discovered that it held Vlakos’ housing choice voucher, her long-awaited ticket out of PHA Healthcare.
An Opportunity in Baltimore
Raised in New York by his mother and her aunt, Thomas spent his early years at elite schools. He graduated in the top 10% of his high school class, then studied political science at Tufts University, according to records his lawyer would later file in court. He enrolled at Georgetown Law, dropped out, then worked as a financial adviser at Salomon Smith Barney, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley.
In 2003, in his early 30s, he started a private equity firm in Washington that specialized in corporate takeovers and converting companies to be employee-owned.
A couple of years later , he helped two companies in Maine restructure under that model. The companies took on debt to buy out their owners on the employees’ behalf, then Thomas hired himself to operate them as the employees’ trustee.
But he used the companies for personal gain, the U.S. Labor Department and federal prosecutors would allege. He took out a loan at one company for a $230,000 down payment on a house, prosecutors said. Over two years at the other company — Gagne Precast Concrete Products, a family-owned business just outside Bangor, Maine — he withdrew cash, seized checks and transferred money to another business he controlled. He diverted at least $1.1 million, the Labor Department said.
The company began missing loan payments, and in 2008, after about 25 years in business, it was seized by a bank. The employees all lost their jobs, recalled Dan Sinclair, who handled Gagne Precast’s inventory. “He destroyed families,” he said.
Thomas was sued in 2011 by the Labor Department for allegedly mismanaging the employee ownership funds he had created; he settled the case, paid back at least $300,000 and accepted a 10-year ban on doing similar work. The next year, he was indicted on a charge of tax evasion. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 18 months in prison.
During his incarceration, he lost his marriage and his business. But he also found new opportunities, Thomas said in an interview. Men who were tired of stories of gun violence and drug dealing wanted to hear Thomas talk about building companies. In turn, “they said that Baltimore would be a place I could come, and opportunity would be there for me,” Thomas recalled.
He was released in 2014, broke, and started a business in Baltimore.
He and his mother began to buy and renovate abandoned buildings in Park Heights, an impoverished neighborhood in northwest Baltimore, and called the venture Park Height’s Angel Inc. In 2018, at least one of its homes had been certified by the Maryland Health Department as a drug addiction recovery residence, records show. That required well-maintained buildings, detailed staffing plans, inspections and regular drug tests for clients.
The company struggled. A year later, it filed for bankruptcy, claiming four properties and more than $1 million in debt.
In 2020, Thomas started PHA Healthcare. He enlisted his mother, Ruby Thomas, now 77, and others with little or no experience in treatment to work with him.
Tayonna Jennings, 38, a woman Stephen Thomas had lived with, became real estate operations director, identifying landlords to rent from and overseeing house managers, according to former employees.
Danee Baxter, 32, a former event coordinator, became clinical director, her LinkedIn profile shows. But she was licensed as a trainee, not a full counselor, according to state records.
Humphrey Holmes, 39, was briefly in charge of hiring counselors. Thomas had met him in a federal halfway house after leaving prison; Holmes had pleaded guilty in 2012 to bank fraud after using fraudulent Social Security numbers to apply for loans and cash checks.
Gregory Heard, 58, a principal at a small New Jersey-based hedge fund, consulted on the company’s business operations.
Ruby Thomas, Jennings and Baxter declined to comment or did not answer messages.
In an interview, Heard said the program’s fast growth was an “incredible testimony to the depth and level of care we provide.” When patients enroll, the program sends an Uber for them, he said, and a house manager greets them on the doorstep. “We are going to deliver the Ritz-Carlton experience.”
Asked about drug use and violence at the properties, Heard said anyone caught doing drugs or instigating violence would be discharged.
Holmes said he had been managing a chain of prepaid-cellphone stores in 2022 when Stephen Thomas asked him to work as a contractor. Holmes had no experience in treatment but had family members who were addicted to drugs, and he wanted to help others. As time went on, he said, he saw patients were not getting the treatment they needed, and his bosses would not answer basic questions about the business’s operations. He quit this year after many counselors were fired without explanation, he said.
Regulations ‘Just Got Stuck’
There were warning signs about PHA Healthcare even before it opened.
In its license application in 2020, the program said it would treat 16 people. But its policy manual appeared to be written for a much larger organization with different services, noted its accreditation agency, the Joint Commission, which is best known for reviewing most U.S. hospitals.
Even so, 14 days later, the state approved the company’s application.
At the time, the Health Department was straining to provide oversight of treatment programs.
In 2017, with a shortage of providers and rising overdose rates, Maryland began issuing licenses to virtually any company that had obtained preliminary accreditation from the Joint Commission or a similar agency — an easing of rules few other states had undertaken. It began to rely on the agencies for inspections as well.
Then the administration of Gov. Larry Hogan — a Republican who emphasized government efficiency and took office in 2015 — stopped filling many open state positions, leaving the department with high vacancy rates.
In January 2020, a new contractor, Optum, rolled out broken technology that left the state unable to process Medicaid claims for addiction services. Maryland was forced to pay treatment providers based on educated guesses for nearly a year. Optum could not monitor or properly audit spending, and the Health Department stopped referring fraud cases to prosecutors.
Once COVID-19 arrived, auditors stopped visiting programs in person.
Signs mounted that some providers had been taking advantage.
In interviews, patients in other programs described being warehoused in bedrooms tightly packed with bunk beds or forced to hand over food stamps to cover rent.
Some established operators said they began losing clients to upstart companies that left flyers at their doors and offered gift cards for enrolling. Patients came back with stories of abuse and exploitation, they said.
Established treatment companies also began hearing more examples of competitors providing free housing with outpatient counseling.
Federal kickback laws make it illegal for Medicaid providers to offer free housing to patients in exchange for enrolling in their government-funded treatment, former prosecutors and state health officials said. If a company does offer both housing and counseling, it must allow its tenants to get counseling elsewhere.
Housing some people who do not attend treatment does not on its own remove the problem, according to Eva Gunasekera, a former Justice Department lawyer who led investigations into health care fraud. Prosecutors may look at the percentage of residents in housing who are getting treatment from a company and whether they were ever required to attend, she said.
Thomas said in an interview that PHA Healthcare had housed “many people” not in the company’s treatment and continued to house some after they stopped. It gave clients housing through a “separate but related entity” that he helped manage, he added.
State officials have heard rumors of similar arrangements since at least 2021, said Dr. Aliya Jones, who oversaw addiction treatment for Maryland from 2020 to 2022. In some cases, officials found out only after programs closed abruptly and left people homeless. But it was “a problem amongst a whole lot of other problems,” she said.
Jones said her staff decided to discourage providers from running unregulated homes but could not recall whether other formal actions were taken. They tried to update the state’s regulations, but “it just got stuck” on the desk of the health secretary then, Dennis Schrader, who was focused on the pandemic, she said.
There are two well-reimbursed types of outpatient treatment in which providers say some of their competitors offer free housing, including the main form PHA Healthcare provides. State spending on those services grew from $41 million annually in 2021 to nearly $144 million in 2024, or 43% of all state money for addiction treatment in Baltimore. Last fiscal year, PHA Healthcare alone accounted for 8% of all spending in the city on its main type of treatment.
In 2023, Herrera Scott was appointed by Gov. Wes Moore, a Democrat. She said she soon heard complaints about exploitative providers. She blamed Hogan’s administration for stripping the Health Department of its “teeth.”
A spokesperson for Hogan, however, said the governor’s office had not been told of problems with updating regulations or of issues surrounding PHA Healthcare.
“The Hogan administration prioritized expanding access to mental and behavioral health services and building a comprehensive statewide support system” during the pandemic, said Mike Ricci, the spokesperson.
In July, the Health Department temporarily stopped issuing licenses for those categories of outpatient treatment. It expects to impose regulations next year to strengthen oversight and potentially require providers to obtain state approval for any recovery homes they operate.
The state took action after increasingly severe warnings about programs using illegal inducements to attract patients.
In September 2023, a Medicaid notice warned providers to stop “offering housing as an incentive” to draw patients into treatment.
“That is absolutely not legal,” Spencer Gear, who oversees licensing at the state Behavioral Health Administration, told treatment providers during a meeting shortly after Maryland issued a second warning, in February. “We are seeing a very big problem” in some types of outpatient counseling, he added.
This October, Medicaid warned providers for a third time about illegal housing, now threatening to refer them for prosecution.
‘A Narrative of Truth’
A few people tried complaining to local health officials about PHA Healthcare, to little effect.
After the death of Shaw and her baby this year, a former employee filed an online complaint about the company with Behavioral Health System Baltimore, a nonprofit that oversees treatment providers on behalf of the city, but got no response, the former employee said. The organization said it had no record of the complaint.
Kellijo Crosson, 42, who was enrolled at PHA Healthcare from April 2023 to June 2024, said she called the city’s Health Department repeatedly about the program’s family housing. She was told she had reached the wrong agency, and her voicemail messages were not returned. A lawyer she reached through the department’s website suggested she hire an advocate, she said.
Nonetheless, this year, Thomas received a $150,000 grant through the city for creating housing for homeless people and addiction patients, he said. Jennings received an award from the City Council for her “relentless commitment to affordable housing development,” a social media post shows.
The business last year began renting a suite in a downtown building overlooking the waterfront for more than $13,000 a month, but several of the offices sit empty.
Last Friday, PHA Healthcare filled the space with Christmas decorations, a catered lunch and a few dozen visitors. Among them were property owners looking to fill their buildings with treatment programs; state Sen. Malcolm Augustine, a Democrat whom Thomas introduced as “a dear friend”; members of a public relations firm hired by Thomas who flew in from California and Georgia; and a handful of patients. The guest of honor was television host Nick Cannon, who was on tour in Baltimore for his comedy show.
One patient in attendance — who declined to be named and was not counted among the 16 the reporters interviewed — said she had experienced violence and rape at other treatment programs. But after joining PHA Healthcare two years ago, she said, she stopped using drugs, and the company now pays her to clean its properties. “Other programs are like jail,” she said, adding, “PHA is the only thing that saved me.”
Facing the audience, Thomas admitted to making a mistake over the past several years: His company had not invested in a website, social media, business cards, shirts and hats. He said he believed if he focused on the people, the rest would take care of itself.
But now it was time to create “a narrative of truth,” he said.
“I’ve heard people say, ‘Hey, I know a person who’s had a bad experience at PHA Healthcare. I know five. I know 10,’” he added. “But what about the thousands who we’ve turned around?”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Patients; Drug overdose; Fatalities; Addictions; Counseling; Fentanyl; Narcotics

Location: Baltimore Maryland; Maryland; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Welfare (Us); Hiring And Promotion; Smithsonian National Zoological Park; Opioids And Opiates; Video Recordings, Down loads And Streaming; University Of Georgia; House Of Representatives; Orderliness And Clutter; Shortages; Small Business; Prisons And Prisoners; Georgetown University Law Center; United States; Videophones And Videoconferencing; Linkedin Corporation; Cocaine And Crack Cocaine; Tax Evasion; Bankruptcies; Justice Department; City Council (Nyc); Corporations; Accreditation; Disasters And Emergencies; Tests And Examinations; Politics And Government; California; Credit And Debt; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Babies And Infants; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Bangor (Me); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Nonprofit Organizations; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Police; Baltimore (Md); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Private Equity; Suicides And Suicide Attempts; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Uber Technologies Inc; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Gardens And Gardening; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Customer Relations; Emergency Telephone Numbers; Public Relations And Publicity; Mid Atlantic States (Us); Smith Barney; Families And Family Life; Bribery And Kickbacks; Wages And Salaries; Nigeria; Vouchers; Computers And The Internet; Sex Crimes; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Child Abandonment; Merrill Lynch &; Co; Tufts University; Moore, Wes (1978 ); Maine; Nine One One (911) (Emergency Phone Number); Frauds And Swindling; Wireless Communications; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Rumors And Misinformation; Federal Budget (Us); Deaths (Fatalities); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Washington County (Md); New Jersey; Black Markets; Democratic Party; Cannon, Nick; Buildings (Structures); Text Messaging; Roommates; Education (K 12); Buprenorphine (Drug); Polls And Public Opinion; Sunlight; Federal Aid (Us); New York State; Area Planning And Renewal; Medicaid; Cellular Telephones; Abandonment (Property); Newspapers; Infant Mortality; Therapy And Rehabilitation; Consumer Reviews; Affordable Housing; Robberies And Thefts; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor Department (Us); Zoomplus; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Malpractice; Pain Relieving Drugs; Accounting And Accountants; Public And Subsidized Housing; Ritz Carlton Hotel Co; Morgan Stanley; Credit Cards; Zoom Video Communications; Children And Childhood; Television; Family Business; Homeless Persons; Rats; Security And Warning Systems; Government Contracts And Procurement; Naloxone (Drug); Westside High School; Poverty; Addiction (Psychology); Group Homes And Supportive Housing; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Colleges And Universities; Doctors; New York Times; Maryland; Hogan, Lawrence J; Memory; Assets, Frozen; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Comedy And Humor; Optum Inc; Fentanyl; Health And Human Services Department; Tests (Drug Use)

Title: They Entered Treatment. Drugs, Overdoses and Deaths Followed.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 24, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148733300

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-entered-treatment-drugs-overdoses-deaths/docview/3148733300/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Alleged Effort To Strike Back At Star Actress: [Investigative]

Author: Twohey, Megan; Mcintire, Mike; Tate, Julie

Publication info: Twohey, Megan; Mcintire, Mike; Tate, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alleged-effort-strike-back-at-star-actress/docview/3148087651/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Private messages detail an alleged campaign to tarnish Blake Lively after she accused Justin Baldoni of misconduct on the set of "It Ends With Us."
Last summer, as the release of "It Ends With Us" approached, Justin Baldoni, the director and a star of the film, and Jamey Heath, the lead producer, hired a crisis public relations expert.
During shooting, Blake Lively, the co-star, had complained that the men had repeatedly violated physical boundaries and made sexual and other inappropriate comments to her. Their studio, Wayfarer, agreed to provide a full-time intimacy coordinator, bring in an outside producer and put other safeguards on set. In a side letter to Ms. Lively's contract, signed by Mr. Heath, the studio also agreed not to retaliate against the actress.
But by August, the two men, who had positioned themselves as feminist allies in the #MeToo era, expressed fears that her allegations would become public and taint them, according to a legal complaint that she filed Friday. It claims that their P.R. effort had an explicit goal: to harm Ms. Lively's reputation instead.
Her filing includes excerpts from thousands of pages of text messages and emails that she obtained through a subpoena. These and other documents were reviewed by The New York Times.
There have long been figures behind the scenes shaping public opinion about celebrities -- through gossip columns, tabloids and strategic interviews. The documents show an additional playbook for waging a largely undetectable smear campaign in the digital era. While the film, about domestic violence, was a box office hit -- making nearly $ 350 million worldwide -- online criticism of the actress skyrocketed.
"He wants to feel like she can be buried," a publicist working with the studio and Mr. Baldoni wrote in an Aug. 2 message to the crisis management expert, Melissa Nathan.
"You know we can bury anyone," Ms. Nathan wrote.
In the following weeks, Ms. Nathan, whose clients have included Johnny Depp and the rappers Drake and Travis Scott, went hard at the press, pushing to prevent stories about Mr. Baldoni's behavior and reinforce negative ones about Ms. Lively, the text messages show. Jed Wallace, a self-described "hired gun," led a digital strategy that included boosting social media posts that could help their cause.
An attorney for Wayfarer said in a statement to The Times that the studio, its executives and public relations representatives "did nothing proactive nor retaliated" against Ms. Lively, and accused the actress of "another desperate attempt to 'fix' her negative reputation."
"These claims are completely false, outrageous and intentionally salacious with an intent to publicly hurt and rehash a narrative in the media," the lawyer, Bryan Freedman, wrote.
Mr. Freedman did not address her allegations about misconduct during the filming by Mr. Baldoni and Mr. Heath. He alleged that Ms. Lively planted "negative and completely fabricated and false stories with media" about Mr. Baldoni, which he said "was another reason why Wayfarer Studios made the decision to hire a crisis professional."
The effort to tarnish Ms. Lively appears to have paid off. Within days of the film's release, the negative media coverage and commentary became an unusually high percentage of her online presence, according to a forensic review she sought from a brand marketing consultant.
Ms. Lively -- who is married to the actor and entrepreneur Ryan Reynolds of "Deadpool" fame, and is close with Taylor Swift -- experienced the biggest reputational hit of her career. She was branded tone-deaf, difficult to work with, a bully. Sales of her new hair-care line plummeted.
"Is Blake Lively set to be CANCELLED?" read a Daily Mail headline one week into the attacks.
Mr. Baldoni, by contrast, emerged largely unscathed. This month, he was honored at a star-studded event celebrating men who "elevate women, combat gender-based violence and promote gender equality worldwide." On Saturday, however, after this article was published, the talent agency William Morris Endeavor stopped representing Mr. Baldoni, said Ari Emanuel, chief executive of Endeavor, the agency's parent company.
Ms. Lively's complaint -- against Mr. Baldoni; Mr. Heath; Wayfarer; Steve Sarowitz, a co-founder of the studio; Mr. Wallace; Ms. Nathan; and Jennifer Abel, another public relations executive involved in the campaign -- alleges sexual harassment and retaliation, among other claims. The complaint, filed with the California Civil Rights Department, is a precursor to a lawsuit.
In a statement, Ms. Lively said, "I hope that my legal action helps pull back the curtain on these sinister retaliatory tactics to harm people who speak up about misconduct and helps protect others who may be targeted."
She also denied that she or any of her representatives planted or spread negative information about Mr. Baldoni or Wayfarer.
'We Should Have a Plan'
In May, several months after the filming wrapped, Mr. Baldoni realized that Mr. Reynolds had blocked him on Instagram.
"We should have a plan for IF she does the same when movie comes out," Mr. Baldoni wrote of Ms. Lively in a text exchange that included Ms. Abel, a publicist who has long worked with him and Wayfarer. "Plans make me feel more at ease."
Mr. Baldoni, 40, and Mr. Heath, 55, had a lot riding on the film, which is based on a best-selling novel by Colleen Hoover.
Mr. Baldoni was best known for the CW satirical romantic dramedy "Jane the Virgin." Wayfarer provided the resources for bigger ambitions. It was bankrolled by the billionaire Steve Sarowitz, who is co-chair of the studio with Mr. Baldoni. They and Mr. Heath, the chief executive, are all deeply involved with the Baha'i religious organization, which promotes unity, peace and gender equality. Mr. Baldoni has presented himself as an ally to women, writing books, co-hosting a podcast with Mr. Heath and giving talks on toxic masculinity.
Ms. Lively, 37, was by far the bigger star. The TV show "Gossip Girl" catapulted her to early fame, and she appeared in films ranging from "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants" to "The Town." She built businesses outside the entertainment industry, appeared on the covers of glossy magazines and amassed more than 45 million Instagram followers.
Ms. Lively had expressed concerns about Mr. Baldoni from the beginning, according to her legal complaint. Before shooting began, for example, she objected to sex scenes he wanted to add that she considered gratuitous.
In November 2023, as the cast of "It Ends With Us" was preparing to resume shooting after a monthslong writers' strike, Ms. Lively went to Wayfarer with the side letter seeking safeguards.
"Our client is willing to forego a more formal HR process in favor of everyone returning to work and finishing the Film as long as the set is safe moving forward," her legal team wrote to the studio.
She detailed her complaints during a meeting with Mr. Baldoni, Mr. Heath and other producers in January, according to the legal filing. She claimed Mr. Baldoni had improvised unwanted kissing and discussed his sex life, including encounters in which he said he may not have received consent. Mr. Heath had shown her a video of his wife naked, she said, and he had watched Ms. Lively in her trailer when she was topless and having body makeup removed, despite her asking him to look away. She said that both men repeatedly entered her makeup trailer uninvited while she was undressed, including when she was breastfeeding.
In agreeing to the terms that Ms. Lively sought, Wayfarer acknowledged that "Although our perspective differs in many aspects, ensuring a safe environment for all is paramount," according to her legal complaint.
By the spring, Ms. Lively told people she worked with that the men's behavior had improved with the new protections.
But she was now in a creative battle with them. With the support of Sony, the film's distributor, she made her own cut of the movie, bringing in editors and a composer and adding one of Ms. Swift's songs.
In the end, Sony and Wayfarer went with Ms. Lively's cut, and she got a producer credit.
As the film release neared, Ms. Lively and other cast members informed Sony and Wayfarer that they would not do any appearances alongside Mr. Baldoni. So did Ms. Hoover, the author, who had her own dissatisfactions with him and had become more upset after he told her about Ms. Lively's allegations, according to text messages from Mr. Baldoni and Mr. Heath.
'Most Importantly Untraceable'
By the first week of August, Wayfarer and Mr. Baldoni had retained Ms. Nathan, who had worked with high-profile clients including Mr. Depp, whose ex-wife, Amber Heard, accused him of physical abuse.
Mr. Depp successfully sued Ms. Heard for defamation, and the trial became a spectacle amid suspicions of an online campaign to damage her credibility.
This year, after a decade at the New York consultancy Hiltzik Strategies, Ms. Nathan started her own firm, TAG PR. Its majority stakeholder is a company run by the entertainment industry executive Scooter Braun.
In an initial planning document sent to Wayfarer and Mr. Baldoni on Aug. 2, Ms. Nathan suggested media talking points, including that Ms. Lively used an imbalance of power to take creative control of the film.
But Mr. Baldoni wanted more.
"Not in love with the document they sent," he responded in a text exchange that included Ms. Abel and Mr. Heath. "Not sure I'm feeling the protection I felt on the call."
Ms. Abel relayed his frustration to Ms. Nathan: "I think you guys need to be tough and show the strength of what you guys can do in these scenarios. He wants to feel like she can be buried."
"Of course- but you know when we send over documents we can't send over the work we will or could do because that could get us in a lot of trouble," Ms. Nathan responded, adding, "We can't write we will destroy her."
Moments later, she said, "Imagine if a document saying all the things that he wants ends up in the wrong hands."
"You know we can bury anyone," she wrote.
Three days later, Mr. Baldoni texted Ms. Abel, flagging a social media thread that accused another celebrity of bullying behavior and had generated 19 million views. "This is what we would need," he wrote.
Ms. Nathan soon floated proposals to hire contractors to dominate social media through "full social account take downs," by starting "threads of theories" and generally working to "change narrative."
"All of this will be most importantly untraceable," she wrote.
Within days, the group was working with Mr. Wallace, whose company, Street Relations, offers services ranging from public relations to more opaque crisis management. He is a somewhat enigmatic figure with very little digital trail. But court records show that his clients have included Paramount Pictures and the YouTube personality Adin Ross.
And in a since-deleted LinkedIn profile, Mr. Wallace described himself as "a hired gun" with a "proprietary formula for defining artists and trends."
'That's Why You Hired Me'
The Aug. 6 premiere brought the first wave of press coverage questioning what had happened during the filming. A Hollywood Reporter story speculated about a rift between Ms Lively and Mr. Baldoni, after TikTokers noticed that the two stars didn't pose for photographs together and that Ms. Lively and other cast members didn't follow Mr. Baldoni on Instagram.
Ms. Nathan had already been speaking to other journalists, according to text messages.
When Ms. Abel wrote to her Aug. 4 that "I'm having reckless thoughts of wanting to plant pieces this week of how horrible Blake is to work with. Just to get ahead of it," Ms. Nathan replied that she had spoken off the record to an editor at The Daily Mail.
"She's ready when we are," Ms. Nathan wrote.
A flurry of articles followed the Hollywood Reporter piece. Many made it seem as if the only rift was over creative control. Some journalists had gotten wind of complaints about Mr. Baldoni's behavior, but none of the most serious ones were published.
"He doesn't realise how lucky he is right now," Ms. Nathan texted Ms. Abel.
In other exchanges, Ms. Nathan claimed that she had kept allegations against him out of stories, writing in one message that major news outlets were "standing down on HR complaint."
Meanwhile, an online backlash against Ms. Lively was underway. It is impossible to know how much of the negative publicity was seeded by Ms. Nathan, Mr. Wallace and their team, and how much they noticed and amplified.
On Aug. 10, Kjersti Flaa, a Norwegian entertainment reporter, uploaded to YouTube a 2016 interview in which Ms. Lively snapped back when Ms. Flaa commented on her baby "bump" and remained testy for the rest of the conversation. Ms. Flaa titled it "The Blake Lively interview that made me want to quit my job," and told The Daily Mail that "it's time that people behaving badly in Hollywood, or anywhere else for that matter, gets called out for it."
After publication of this article, Ms. Flaa on Sunday contacted The Times and said she had not participated in any orchestrated effort to harm Ms. Lively's reputation. In an email, she said that she had resurfaced the 2016 interview independently this past August. "It was neither coordinated nor influenced by anyone associated with the alleged campaign," she wrote.
It wasn't the first time she had posted a video aligned with a client of Ms. Nathan. In 2022, in the midst of Mr. Depp's legal battle with Ms. Heard, Ms. Flaa posted clips of her interviews with the actor, tagged #JusticeForJohnnyDepp.
During the film rollout, Ms. Lively was also accused of being insensitive about domestic violence. The official promotion plan instructed the cast to focus more on the uplifting aspects of the movie than on abuse, and to embrace a floral theme (her character has a flower shop). In several appearances, she never made reference to domestic violence at all. And she faced criticism when her Betty Booze beverage company was promoting the film, given the role alcohol can play in abusive relationships.
Seeing that blowback, the text messages show, Mr. Baldoni and his P.R. team decided instead to highlight survivors of domestic violence in his interviews and social media.
More criticism came when Ms. Lively said in an interview that Mr. Reynolds, who had no role in the film, had helped rewrite a scene, prompting snarky comments about the actress leaning on her husband and speculation that he had violated the writers strike.
It is unclear exactly how Mr. Wallace operated. There are references in emails to "social manipulation" and "proactive fan posting," and text messages cite efforts to "boost" and "amplify" online content that was favorable to Mr. Baldoni or critical of Ms. Lively.
"We are crushing it on Reddit," Mr. Wallace told Ms. Nathan, according to a text she sent Ms. Abel on Aug. 9.
The next day, one of Ms. Nathan's employees texted, "We've started to see shift on social, due largely to Jed and his team's efforts to shift the narrative."
Ms. Nathan wrote to Ms. Abel: "And socials are really really ramping up. In his favour, she must be furious. It's actually sad because it just shows you have people really want to hate on women."
When a TikTok sleuth started asking questions about Mr. Baldoni, Ms. Abel texted that "this girl is on a very dangerous crusade."
"We've flagged to Jed and his team for more serious action on the social side," she wrote.
Throughout the text exchanges, Mr. Baldoni encourages the P.R. team, sometimes flagging social media posts for them to use. On Aug. 15, he proposes "flipping the narrative" on a positive story about Ms. Lively and her husband by "using their own words against them."
Other times he appears to vacillate, seeking assurances about the tactics being deployed. When he notices a tabloid article critical of Ms. Lively, he sends a worried text: "How can we say somehow that we are not doing any of this -- it looks like we are trying to take her down." On another occasion, he wondered whether they were deploying fake "bot" accounts on social media.
"I can fully fully confirm we do not have bots," Ms. Nathan wrote, adding that any digital team would be too intelligent to "utilise something so obvious."
Mr. Wallace's operation, she wrote, "is doing something very specific in terms of what they do. I know Jamey & Jed connected on this."
Mr. Baldoni, Ms. Nathan and others on the team claimed in their text exchanges that Ms. Lively was using her own public relations team to create bad press about Mr. Baldoni but cited no evidence to support those claims.
By mid-August, the team was reveling in the damage to Ms. Lively's image.
On Aug. 16, Ms. Nathan shared the Daily Mail article headlined "Is Blake Lively set to be CANCELLED?" with references to 'hard to watch' videos and a 'tone deaf' promotional Q. and A.
"Wow. You really outdid yourself with this piece," Ms. Abel responded.
"That's why you hired me right?" Ms. Nathan replied. "I'm the best."
'We Men Have to Step Up'
A brand marketing consultant, Terakeet, produced a report in August for Ms. Lively that concluded she had likely been the object of a "targeted, multichannel online attack" similar to one against Ms. Heard, and that it was damaging her reputation.
The report did not identify who was behind the attack. But by analyzing "the entirety of Google's search index" for Ms. Lively's name, it found that 35 percent of the results also included a reference to Mr. Baldoni. This was highly unusual given the length of her career, the company said, and suggested that the media environment was being manipulated.
A separate report, by Ms. Lively's hair-care company, Blake Brown, concluded that the social media onslaught also had a negative effect on that business. Her product line, which had launched in August with record-breaking sales, estimates that it lost as much as 78 percent in sales.
With the recent arrival of "It Ends With Us" on Netflix, Mr. Baldoni has begun another round of promotion and messaging.
In an interview on "Access Hollywood," he said "there is never an excuse" to "hurt a woman, physically or emotionally." He added, "We men have to step up and figure out how we can be better allies."
Produced by Leo Dominguez and Rumsey Taylor.
Produced by Leo Dominguez and Rumsey Taylor.
Illustration The author Colleen Hoover, left, and the cast members Brandon Sklenar, Isabela Ferrer and Blake Lively promoting the film "It Ends With Us." ERIC CHARBONNEAU/GETTY IMAGES FOR SONY PICTURES Justin Baldoni, left, was accused of misconduct by Blake Lively while working on a film. The director Justin Baldoni, left, and the lead producer Jamey Heath, in August at the premiere of "It Ends With Us" in New York. JAMES DEVANEY/GC IMAGES, VIA GETTY IMAGES NAJEEBAH AL-GHADBAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES Soon a flurry of articles were written about the stars' rift being merely about creative control. By mid-August, the team was reveling in the online backlash to Ms. Lively and the damage to her image. Planning the Campaign In August, as the film's release neared, Ms. Abel and Ms. Nathan agreed to sharpen the approach.

Subject: Domestic violence; Strikes; Entertainment industry; Actors; Public relations; Motion picture directors & producers; Litigation; Gender equity; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Entertainment industry Public relations Gender equity Executives

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Lively, Blake; Sarowitz, Steve

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/21/business/media/blake-lively-justin-baldoni-it-ends-with-us.html

Title: Alleged Effort To Strike Back At Star Actress:   [Investigative ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: .

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 23, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148087651

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alleged-effort-strike-back-at-star-actress/docview/3148087651/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Alleged Effort To Strike Back At Star Actress: [National Desk]

Author: Twohey, Megan; Mcintire, Mike; Tate, Julie

Publication info: Twohey, Megan; Mcintire, Mike; Tate, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alleged-effort-strike-back-at-star-actress/docview/3148087636/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Last summer, as the release of "It Ends With Us" approached, Justin Baldoni, the director and a star of the film, and Jamey Heath, the lead producer, hired a crisis public relations expert.
During shooting, Blake Lively, the co-star, had complained that the men had repeatedly violated physical boundaries and made sexual and other inappropriate comments to her. Their studio, Wayfarer, agreed to provide a full-time intimacy coordinator, bring in an outside producer and put other safeguards on set. In a side letter to Ms. Lively's contract, signed by Mr. Heath, the studio also agreed not to retaliate against the actress.
But by August, the two men, who had positioned themselves as feminist allies in the #MeToo era, expressed fears that her allegations would become public and taint them, according to a legal complaint that she filed Friday. It claims that their P.R. effort had an explicit goal: to harm Ms. Lively's reputation instead.
Her filing includes excerpts from thousands of pages of text messages and emails that she obtained through a subpoena. These and other documents were reviewed by The New York Times.
There have long been figures behind the scenes shaping public opinion about celebrities -- through gossip columns, tabloids and strategic interviews. The documents show an additional playbook for waging a largely undetectable smear campaign in the digital era. While the film, about domestic violence, was a box office hit -- making nearly $ 350 million worldwide -- online criticism of the actress skyrocketed.
"He wants to feel like she can be buried," a publicist working with the studio and Mr. Baldoni wrote in an Aug. 2 message to the crisis management expert, Melissa Nathan.
"You know we can bury anyone," Ms. Nathan wrote.
In the following weeks, Ms. Nathan, whose clients have included Johnny Depp and the rappers Drake and Travis Scott, went hard at the press, pushing to prevent stories about Mr. Baldoni's behavior and reinforce negative ones about Ms. Lively, the text messages show. Jed Wallace, a self-described "hired gun," led a digital strategy that included boosting social media posts that could help their cause.
An attorney for Wayfarer said in a statement to The Times that the studio, its executives and public relations representatives "did nothing proactive nor retaliated" against Ms. Lively, and accused the actress of "another desperate attempt to 'fix' her negative reputation."
"These claims are completely false, outrageous and intentionally salacious with an intent to publicly hurt and rehash a narrative in the media," the lawyer, Bryan Freedman, wrote.
Mr. Freedman did not address her allegations about misconduct during the filming by Mr. Baldoni and Mr. Heath. He alleged that Ms. Lively planted "negative and completely fabricated and false stories with media" about Mr. Baldoni, which he said "was another reason why Wayfarer Studios made the decision to hire a crisis professional."
The effort to tarnish Ms. Lively appears to have paid off. Within days of the film's release, the negative media coverage and commentary became an unusually high percentage of her online presence, according to a forensic review she sought from a brand marketing consultant.
Ms. Lively -- who is married to the actor and entrepreneur Ryan Reynolds of "Deadpool" fame, and is close with Taylor Swift -- experienced the biggest reputational hit of her career. She was branded tone-deaf, difficult to work with, a bully. Sales of her new hair-care line plummeted.
"Is Blake Lively set to be CANCELLED?" read a Daily Mail headline one week into the attacks.
Mr. Baldoni, by contrast, emerged largely unscathed. This month, he was honored at a star-studded event celebrating men who "elevate women, combat gender-based violence and promote gender equality worldwide." On Saturday, however, after this article was published, the talent agency William Morris Endeavor stopped representing Mr. Baldoni, said Ari Emanuel, chief executive of Endeavor, the agency's parent company.
Ms. Lively's complaint -- against Mr. Baldoni; Mr. Heath; Wayfarer; Steve Sarowitz, a co-founder of the studio; Mr. Wallace; Ms. Nathan; and Jennifer Abel, another public relations executive involved in the campaign -- alleges sexual harassment and retaliation, among other claims. The complaint, filed with the California Civil Rights Department, is a precursor to a lawsuit.
In a statement, Ms. Lively said, "I hope that my legal action helps pull back the curtain on these sinister retaliatory tactics to harm people who speak up about misconduct and helps protect others who may be targeted."
She also denied that she or any of her representatives planted or spread negative information about Mr. Baldoni or Wayfarer.
'We Should Have a Plan'
In May, several months after the filming wrapped, Mr. Baldoni realized that Mr. Reynolds had blocked him on Instagram.
"We should have a plan for IF she does the same when movie comes out," Mr. Baldoni wrote of Ms. Lively in a text exchange that included Ms. Abel, a publicist who has long worked with him and Wayfarer. "Plans make me feel more at ease."
Mr. Baldoni, 40, and Mr. Heath, 55, had a lot riding on the film, which is based on a best-selling novel by Colleen Hoover.
Mr. Baldoni was best known for the CW satirical romantic dramedy "Jane the Virgin." Wayfarer provided the resources for bigger ambitions. It was bankrolled by the billionaire Steve Sarowitz, who is co-chair of the studio with Mr. Baldoni. They and Mr. Heath, the chief executive, are all deeply involved with the Baha'i religious organization, which promotes unity, peace and gender equality. Mr. Baldoni has presented himself as an ally to women, writing books, co-hosting a podcast with Mr. Heath and giving talks on toxic masculinity.
Ms. Lively, 37, was by far the bigger star. The TV show "Gossip Girl" catapulted her to early fame, and she appeared in films ranging from "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants" to "The Town." She built businesses outside the entertainment industry, appeared on the covers of glossy magazines and amassed more than 45 million Instagram followers.
Ms. Lively had expressed concerns about Mr. Baldoni from the beginning, according to her legal complaint. Before shooting began, for example, she objected to sex scenes he wanted to add that she considered gratuitous.
In November 2023, as the cast of "It Ends With Us" was preparing to resume shooting after a monthslong writers' strike, Ms. Lively went to Wayfarer with the side letter seeking safeguards.
"Our client is willing to forego a more formal HR process in favor of everyone returning to work and finishing the Film as long as the set is safe moving forward," her legal team wrote to the studio.
She detailed her complaints during a meeting with Mr. Baldoni, Mr. Heath and other producers in January, according to the legal filing. She claimed Mr. Baldoni had improvised unwanted kissing and discussed his sex life, including encounters in which he said he may not have received consent. Mr. Heath had shown her a video of his wife naked, she said, and he had watched Ms. Lively in her trailer when she was topless and having body makeup removed, despite her asking him to look away. She said that both men repeatedly entered her makeup trailer uninvited while she was undressed, including when she was breastfeeding.
In agreeing to the terms that Ms. Lively sought, Wayfarer acknowledged that "Although our perspective differs in many aspects, ensuring a safe environment for all is paramount," according to her legal complaint.
By the spring, Ms. Lively told people she worked with that the men's behavior had improved with the new protections.
But she was now in a creative battle with them. With the support of Sony, the film's distributor, she made her own cut of the movie, bringing in editors and a composer and adding one of Ms. Swift's songs.
In the end, Sony and Wayfarer went with Ms. Lively's cut, and she got a producer credit.
As the film release neared, Ms. Lively and other cast members informed Sony and Wayfarer that they would not do any appearances alongside Mr. Baldoni. So did Ms. Hoover, the author, who had her own dissatisfactions with him and had become more upset after he told her about Ms. Lively's allegations, according to text messages from Mr. Baldoni and Mr. Heath.
'Untraceable'
By the first week of August, Wayfarer and Mr. Baldoni had retained Ms. Nathan, who had worked with high-profile clients including Mr. Depp, whose ex-wife, Amber Heard, accused him of physical abuse.
Mr. Depp successfully sued Ms. Heard for defamation, and the trial became a spectacle amid suspicions of an online campaign to damage her credibility.
This year, after a decade at the New York consultancy Hiltzik Strategies, Ms. Nathan started her own firm, TAG PR. Its majority stakeholder is a company run by the entertainment industry executive Scooter Braun.
In an initial planning document sent to Wayfarer and Mr. Baldoni on Aug. 2, Ms. Nathan suggested media talking points, including that Ms. Lively used an imbalance of power to take creative control of the film.
But Mr. Baldoni wanted more.
"Not in love with the document they sent," he responded in a text exchange that included Ms. Abel and Mr. Heath. "Not sure I'm feeling the protection I felt on the call."
Ms. Abel relayed his frustration to Ms. Nathan: "I think you guys need to be tough and show the strength of what you guys can do in these scenarios. He wants to feel like she can be buried."
"Of course- but you know when we send over documents we can't send over the work we will or could do because that could get us in a lot of trouble," Ms. Nathan responded, adding, "We can't write we will destroy her."
Moments later, she said, "Imagine if a document saying all the things that he wants ends up in the wrong hands."
"You know we can bury anyone," she wrote.
Three days later, Mr. Baldoni texted Ms. Abel, flagging a social media thread that accused another celebrity of bullying behavior and had generated 19 million views. "This is what we would need," he wrote.
Ms. Nathan soon floated proposals to hire contractors to dominate social media through "full social account take downs," by starting "threads of theories" and generally working to "change narrative."
"All of this will be most importantly untraceable," she wrote.
Within days, the group was working with Mr. Wallace, whose company, Street Relations, offers services ranging from public relations to more opaque crisis management. He is a somewhat enigmatic figure with very little digital trail. But court records show that his clients have included Paramount Pictures and the YouTube personality Adin Ross.
And in a since-deleted LinkedIn profile, Mr. Wallace described himself as "a hired gun" with a "proprietary formula for defining artists and trends."
'That's Why You Hired Me'
The Aug. 6 premiere brought the first wave of press coverage questioning what had happened during the filming. A Hollywood Reporter story speculated about a rift between Ms Lively and Mr. Baldoni, after TikTokers noticed that the two stars didn't pose for photographs together and that Ms. Lively and other cast members didn't follow Mr. Baldoni on Instagram.
Ms. Nathan had already been speaking to other journalists, according to text messages.
When Ms. Abel wrote to her Aug. 4 that "I'm having reckless thoughts of wanting to plant pieces this week of how horrible Blake is to work with. Just to get ahead of it," Ms. Nathan replied that she had spoken off the record to an editor at The Daily Mail.
"She's ready when we are," Ms. Nathan wrote.
A flurry of articles followed the Hollywood Reporter piece. Many made it seem as if the only rift was over creative control. Some journalists had gotten wind of complaints about Mr. Baldoni's behavior, but none of the most serious ones were published.
"He doesn't realise how lucky he is right now," Ms. Nathan texted Ms. Abel.
In other exchanges, Ms. Nathan claimed that she had kept allegations against him out of stories, writing in one message that major news outlets were "standing down on HR complaint."
Meanwhile, an online backlash against Ms. Lively was underway. It is impossible to know how much of the negative publicity was seeded by Ms. Nathan, Mr. Wallace and their team, and how much they noticed and amplified.
On Aug. 10, Kjersti Flaa, a Norwegian entertainment reporter, uploaded to YouTube a 2016 interview in which Ms. Lively snapped back when Ms. Flaa commented on her baby "bump" and remained testy for the rest of the conversation. Ms. Flaa titled it "The Blake Lively interview that made me want to quit my job," and told The Daily Mail that "it's time that people behaving badly in Hollywood, or anywhere else for that matter, gets called out for it."
It wasn't the first time she had posted a video aligned with a client of Ms. Nathan. In 2022, in the midst of Mr. Depp's legal battle with Ms. Heard, Ms. Flaa posted clips of her interviews with the actor, tagged #JusticeForJohnnyDepp.
After publication of this article, Ms. Flaa on Sunday contacted The Times and said she had not participated in any orchestrated effort to harm Ms. Lively's reputation. In an email, she said that she had resurfaced the 2016 interview independently this past August. "It was neither coordinated nor influenced by anyone associated with the alleged campaign," she wrote.
During the film rollout, Ms. Lively was also accused of being insensitive about domestic violence. The official promotion plan instructed the cast to focus more on the uplifting aspects of the movie than on abuse, and to embrace a floral theme (her character has a flower shop). In several appearances, she never made reference to domestic violence at all. And she faced criticism when her Betty Booze beverage company was promoting the film, given the role alcohol can play in abusive relationships.
Seeing that blowback, the text messages show, Mr. Baldoni and his P.R. team decided instead to highlight survivors of domestic violence in his interviews and social media.
More criticism came when Ms. Lively said in an interview that Mr. Reynolds, who had no role in the film, had helped rewrite a scene, prompting snarky comments about the actress leaning on her husband and speculation that he had violated the writers strike.
It is unclear exactly how Mr. Wallace operated. There are references in emails to "social manipulation" and "proactive fan posting," and text messages cite efforts to "boost" and "amplify" online content that was favorable to Mr. Baldoni or critical of Ms. Lively.
"We are crushing it on Reddit," Mr. Wallace told Ms. Nathan, according to a text she sent Ms. Abel on Aug. 9.
The next day, one of Ms. Nathan's employees texted, "We've started to see shift on social, due largely to Jed and his team's efforts to shift the narrative."
Ms. Nathan wrote to Ms. Abel: "And socials are really really ramping up. In his favour, she must be furious. It's actually sad because it just shows you have people really want to hate on women."
When a TikTok sleuth started asking questions about Mr. Baldoni, Ms. Abel texted that "this girl is on a very dangerous crusade."
"We've flagged to Jed and his team for more serious action on the social side," she wrote.
Throughout the text exchanges, Mr. Baldoni encourages the P.R. team, sometimes flagging social media posts for them to use. On Aug. 15, he proposes "flipping the narrative" on a positive story about Ms. Lively and her husband by "using their own words against them."
Other times he appears to vacillate, seeking assurances about the tactics being deployed. When he notices a tabloid article critical of Ms. Lively, he sends a worried text: "How can we say somehow that we are not doing any of this -- it looks like we are trying to take her down." On another occasion, he wondered whether they were deploying fake "bot" accounts on social media.
"I can fully fully confirm we do not have bots," Ms. Nathan wrote, adding that any digital team would be too intelligent to "utilise something so obvious."
Mr. Wallace's operation, she wrote, "is doing something very specific in terms of what they do. I know Jamey & Jed connected on this."
Mr. Baldoni, Ms. Nathan and others on the team claimed in their text exchanges that Ms. Lively was using her own public relations team to create bad press about Mr. Baldoni but cited no evidence to support those claims.
By mid-August, the team was reveling in the damage to Ms. Lively's image.
On Aug. 16, Ms. Nathan shared the Daily Mail article headlined "Is Blake Lively set to be CANCELLED?" with references to 'hard to watch' videos and a 'tone deaf' promotional Q. and A.
"Wow. You really outdid yourself with this piece," Ms. Abel responded.
"That's why you hired me right?" Ms. Nathan replied. "I'm the best."
'We Men Have to Step Up'
A brand marketing consultant, Terakeet, produced a report in August for Ms. Lively that concluded she had likely been the object of a "targeted, multichannel online attack" similar to one against Ms. Heard, and that it was damaging her reputation.
The report did not identify who was behind the attack. But by analyzing "the entirety of Google's search index" for Ms. Lively's name, it found that 35 percent of the results also included a reference to Mr. Baldoni. This was highly unusual given the length of her career, the company said, and suggested that the media environment was being manipulated.
A separate report, by Ms. Lively's hair-care company, Blake Brown, concluded that the social media onslaught also had a negative effect on that business. Her product line, which had launched in August with record-breaking sales, estimates that it lost as much as 78 percent in sales.
With the recent arrival of "It Ends With Us" on Netflix, Mr. Baldoni has begun another round of promotion and messaging.
In an interview on "Access Hollywood," he said "there is never an excuse" to "hurt a woman, physically or emotionally." He added, "We men have to step up and figure out how we can be better allies."
Photograph Justin Baldoni, left, was accused of misconduct by Blake Lively while working on a film. (A1); The author Colleen Hoover, left, and the cast members Brandon Sklenar, Isabela Ferrer and Blake Lively promoting the film "It Ends With Us." (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC CHARBONNEAU/GETTY IMAGES FOR SONY PICTURES) (A12); PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAJEEBAH AL-GHADBAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The director Justin Baldoni, left, and the lead producer Jamey Heath, in August at the premiere of "It Ends With Us" in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES DEVANEY/GC IMAGES, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12, A13.

Subject: Strikes; Entertainment industry; Actors; Public relations; Motion picture directors & producers; Litigation; Gender equity; Executives; Sex crimes

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Entertainment industry Public relations Gender equity Executives

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Lively, Blake; Baldoni, Justin; Heath, Jamey

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/22/pageoneplus/23rex1.html

Title: Alleged Effort To Strike Back At Star Actress:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 23, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148087636

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alleged-effort-strike-back-at-star-actress/docview/3148087636/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

‘We Can Bury Anyone’: Inside a Hollywood Smear Machine

Author: Twohey, Megan; McIntire, Mike; Tate, Julie

Publication info: Twohey, Megan; McIntire, Mike; Tate, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/we-can-bury-anyone-inside-hollywood-smear-machine/docview/3148133915/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

Last summer, as the release of “It Ends With Us” approached, Justin Baldoni, the director and a star of the film, and Jamey Heath, the lead producer, hired a crisis public relations expert.
During shooting, co-star Blake Lively had complained that the men had repeatedly violated physical boundaries and made sexual and other inappropriate comments to her. Their studio, Wayfarer, agreed to provide a full-time intimacy coordinator, bring in an outside producer and put other safeguards on set. In a side letter to Lively’s contract, signed by Heath, the studio also agreed not to retaliate against the actress.
But by August, the two men, who had positioned themselves as feminist allies in the #MeToo era, expressed fears that her allegations would become public and taint them, according to a legal complaint that she filed Friday. It claims that their PR effort had an explicit goal: to harm Lively’s reputation instead.
Her filing includes excerpts from thousands of pages of text messages and emails that she obtained through a subpoena. These and other documents were reviewed by The New York Times.
There have long been figures behind the scenes shaping public opinion about celebrities — through gossip columns, tabloids and strategic interviews. The documents show an additional playbook for waging a largely undetectable smear campaign in the digital era. Although the film, about domestic violence, was a box office hit — making nearly $350 million worldwide — online criticism of the actress skyrocketed.
“He wants to feel like she can be buried,” a publicist working with the studio and Baldoni wrote in an Aug. 2 message to the crisis management expert, Melissa Nathan.
“You know we can bury anyone,” Nathan wrote.
In the subsequent weeks, Nathan, whose clients have included actor Johnny Depp and rappers Drake and Travis Scott, went hard at the press, pushing to prevent stories about Baldoni’s behavior and reinforce negative ones about Lively, the text messages show. Jed Wallace, a self-described “hired gun,” led a digital strategy that included boosting social media posts that could help their cause.
An attorney for Wayfarer said in a statement to the Times that the studio, its executives and public relations representatives “did nothing proactive nor retaliated” against Lively, and accused the actress of “another desperate attempt to ‘fix’ her negative reputation.”
“These claims are completely false, outrageous and intentionally salacious with an intent to publicly hurt and rehash a narrative in the media,” wrote the lawyer, Bryan Freedman.
Freedman did not address her allegations about misconduct during the filming by Baldoni and Heath. He alleged that Lively planted “negative and completely fabricated and false stories with media” about Baldoni, which he said “was another reason why Wayfarer Studios made the decision to hire a crisis professional.”
The effort to tarnish Lively appears to have paid off. Within days of the film’s release, the negative media coverage and commentary became an unusually high percentage of her online presence, according to a forensic review she sought from a brand marketing consultant.
Lively — who is married to actor and entrepreneur Ryan Reynolds of “Deadpool” fame and is close with Taylor Swift — experienced the biggest reputational hit of her career. She was branded tone-deaf, difficult to work with, a bully. Sales of her new hair care line plummeted.
“Is Blake Lively set to be CANCELLED?” read a Daily Mail headline one week into the attacks.
Baldoni, by contrast, emerged largely unscathed. This month, he was honored at a star-studded event celebrating men who “elevate women, combat gender-based violence and promote gender equality worldwide.” On Saturday, however, after this article was published, the talent agency William Morris Endeavor stopped representing Baldoni, said Ari Emanuel, CEO of Endeavor, the agency’s parent company.
Lively’s complaint — against Baldoni; Heath; Wayfarer; Steve Sarowitz, co-founder of the studio; Wallace; Nathan; and Jennifer Abel, another public relations executive involved in the campaign — alleges sexual harassment and retaliation, among other claims. The complaint, filed with the California Civil Rights Department, is a precursor to a lawsuit.
In a statement, Lively said, “I hope that my legal action helps pull back the curtain on these sinister retaliatory tactics to harm people who speak up about misconduct and helps protect others who may be targeted.”
She also denied that she or any of her representatives planted or spread negative information about Baldoni or Wayfarer.
‘We Should Have a Plan’
In May, several months after the filming wrapped, Baldoni realized that Reynolds had blocked him on Instagram.
“We should have a plan for IF she does the same when movie comes out,” Baldoni wrote of Lively in a text exchange that included Abel, a publicist who has long worked with him and Wayfarer. “Plans make me feel more at ease.”
Baldoni, 40, and Heath, 55, had a lot riding on the film, which is based on a bestselling novel by Colleen Hoover.
Baldoni was best known for The CW satirical romantic dramedy “Jane the Virgin.” Wayfarer provided the resources for bigger ambitions. It was bankrolled by billionaire Steve Sarowitz, co-chair of the studio with Baldoni. They and Heath, the CEO, are all deeply involved with the Baha’i religious organization, which promotes unity, peace and gender equality. Baldoni has presented himself as an ally to women, writing books, co-hosting a podcast with Heath and giving talks on toxic masculinity.
Lively, 37, was by far the bigger star. The TV show “Gossip Girl” catapulted her to early fame, and she appeared in films ranging from “The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants” to “The Town.” She built businesses outside the entertainment industry, appeared on the covers of glossy magazines and amassed more than 45 million Instagram followers.
Lively had expressed concerns about Baldoni from the beginning, according to her legal complaint. Before shooting began, for example, she objected to sex scenes he wanted to add that she considered gratuitous.
In November 2023, as the cast of “It Ends With Us” was preparing to resume shooting after a monthslong writers strike, Lively went to Wayfarer with the side letter seeking safeguards.
“Our client is willing to forego a more formal HR process in favor of everyone returning to work and finishing the Film as long as the set is safe moving forward,” her legal team wrote to the studio.
She detailed her complaints during a meeting with Baldoni, Heath and other producers in January, according to the legal filing. She claimed Baldoni had improvised unwanted kissing and discussed his sex life, including encounters in which he said he may not have received consent. Heath had shown her a video of his wife naked, she said, and he had watched Lively in her trailer when she was topless and having body makeup removed, despite her asking him to look away. She said that both men repeatedly entered her makeup trailer uninvited while she was undressed, including when she was breastfeeding.
In agreeing to the terms that Lively sought, Wayfarer acknowledged that “Although our perspective differs in many aspects, ensuring a safe environment for all is paramount,” according to her legal complaint.
By spring, Lively told people with whom she worked that the men’s behavior had improved with the new protections.
But she was now in a creative battle with them. With the support of Sony, the film’s distributor, she made her own cut of the movie, bringing in editors and a composer and adding one of Swift’s songs.
In the end, Sony and Wayfarer went with Lively’s cut, and she got a producer credit.
As the film release neared, Lively and other cast members informed Sony and Wayfarer that they would not do any appearances alongside Baldoni. So did Hoover, the author, who had her own dissatisfactions with him and had become more upset after he told her about Lively’s allegations, according to text messages from Baldoni and Heath.
‘Most Importantly Untraceable’
By the first week of August, Wayfarer and Baldoni had retained Nathan, who had worked with high-profile clients including Depp, whose ex-wife, Amber Heard, accused him of physical abuse.
Depp successfully sued Heard for defamation, and the trial became a spectacle amid suspicions of an online campaign to damage her credibility.
This year, after a decade at New York consultancy Hiltzik Strategies, Nathan started her own firm, TAG PR. Its majority stakeholder is a company run by entertainment industry executive Scooter Braun.
In an initial planning document sent to Wayfarer and Baldoni on Aug. 2, Nathan suggested media talking points, including that Lively used an imbalance of power to take creative control of the film.
But Baldoni wanted more.
“Not in love with the document they sent,” he responded in a text exchange that included Abel and Heath. “Not sure I’m feeling the protection I felt on the call.”
Abel relayed his frustration to Nathan: “I think you guys need to be tough and show the strength of what you guys can do in these scenarios. He wants to feel like she can be buried.”
“Of course- but you know when we send over documents we can’t send over the work we will or could do because that could get us in a lot of trouble,” Nathan responded, adding, “We can’t write we will destroy her.”
Moments later, she said, “Imagine if a document saying all the things that he wants ends up in the wrong hands.”
“You know we can bury anyone,” she wrote.
Three days later, Baldoni texted Abel, flagging a social media thread that accused another celebrity of bullying behavior and had generated 19 million views. “This is what we would need,” he wrote.
Nathan soon floated proposals to hire contractors to dominate social media through “full social account take downs,” by starting “threads of theories” and generally working to “change narrative.”
“All of this will be most importantly untraceable,” she wrote.
Within days, the group was working with Wallace, whose company, Street Relations, offers services ranging from public relations to more opaque crisis management. He is a somewhat enigmatic figure with very little digital trail. But court records show that his clients have included Paramount Pictures and YouTube personality Adin Ross.
And in a since-deleted LinkedIn profile, Wallace described himself as “a hired gun” with a “proprietary formula for defining artists and trends.”
‘That’s Why You Hired Me’
The Aug. 6 premiere brought the first wave of press coverage questioning what had happened during the filming. A Hollywood Reporter story speculated about a rift between Lively and Baldoni, after TikTokers noticed that the two stars didn’t pose for photographs together and that Lively and other cast members didn’t follow Baldoni on Instagram.
Nathan had already been speaking to other journalists, according to text messages.
When Abel on Aug. 4 wrote to her that “I’m having reckless thoughts of wanting to plant pieces this week of how horrible Blake is to work with. Just to get ahead of it,” Nathan replied that she had spoken off the record to an editor at The Daily Mail.
“She’s ready when we are,” Nathan wrote.
A flurry of articles followed the Hollywood Reporter piece. Many made it seem as if the only rift was over creative control. Some journalists had gotten wind of complaints about Baldoni’s behavior, but none of the most serious ones were published.
“He doesn’t realise how lucky he is right now,” Nathan texted Abel.
In other exchanges, Nathan claimed that she had kept allegations against him out of stories, writing in one message that major news outlets were “standing down on HR complaint.”
Meanwhile, an online backlash against Lively was underway. It is impossible to know how much of the negative publicity was seeded by Nathan, Wallace and their team, and how much they noticed and amplified.
On Aug. 10, Kjersti Flaa, a Norwegian entertainment reporter, uploaded to YouTube a 2016 interview in which Lively snapped back when Flaa commented on her baby “bump” and remained testy for the rest of the conversation. Flaa titled it “The Blake Lively interview that made me want to quit my job,” and told The Daily Mail that “it’s time that people behaving badly in Hollywood, or anywhere else for that matter, gets called out for it.”
It wasn’t the first time she had posted a video aligned with a client of Nathan’s. In 2022, in the midst of Depp’s legal battle with Heard, Flaa posted clips of her interviews with the actor, tagged #JusticeForJohnnyDepp.
After publication of this article, Flaa on Sunday contacted the Times and said she had not participated in any orchestrated effort to harm Lively’s reputation. In an email, she said that she had resurfaced the 2016 interview independently this past August. “It was neither coordinated nor influenced by anyone associated with the alleged campaign,” she wrote.
During the film rollout, Lively was also accused of being insensitive about domestic violence. The official promotion plan instructed the cast to focus more on the uplifting aspects of the movie than on abuse, and to embrace a floral theme (her character has a flower shop). In several appearances, she never made reference to domestic violence at all. And she faced criticism when her Betty Booze beverage company was promoting the film, given the role alcohol can play in abusive relationships.
Seeing that blowback, the text messages show, Baldoni and his PR team decided instead to highlight survivors of domestic violence in his interviews and social media.
More criticism came when Lively said in an interview that Reynolds, who had no role in the film, had helped rewrite a scene, prompting snarky comments about the actress leaning on her husband and speculation that he had violated the writers strike.
It is unclear exactly how Wallace operated. There are references in emails to “social manipulation” and “proactive fan posting,” and text messages cite efforts to “boost” and “amplify” online content that was favorable to Baldoni or critical of Lively.
“We are crushing it on Reddit,” Wallace told Nathan, according to a text she sent Abel on Aug. 9.
The next day, one of Nathan’s employees texted, “We’ve started to see shift on social, due largely to Jed and his team’s efforts to shift the narrative.”
Nathan wrote to Abel: “And socials are really really ramping up. In his favour, she must be furious. It’s actually sad because it just shows you have people really want to hate on women.”
When a TikTok sleuth started asking questions about Baldoni, Abel texted that “this girl is on a very dangerous crusade.”
“We’ve flagged to Jed and his team for more serious action on the social side,” she wrote.
Throughout the text exchanges, Baldoni encourages the PR team, sometimes flagging social media posts for it to use. On Aug. 15, he proposes “flipping the narrative” on a positive story about Lively and her husband by “using their own words against them.”
Other times, he appears to vacillate, seeking assurances about the tactics being deployed.
When he notices a tabloid article critical of Lively, he sends a worried text: “How can we say somehow that we are not doing any of this — it looks like we are trying to take her down.” On another occasion, he wondered whether they were deploying fake “bot” accounts on social media.
“I can fully fully confirm we do not have bots,” Nathan wrote, adding that any digital team would be too intelligent to “utilise something so obvious.”
Wallace’s operation, she wrote, “is doing something very specific in terms of what they do. I know Jamey & Jed connected on this.”
Baldoni, Nathan and others on the team claimed in their text exchanges that Lively was using her own public relations team to create bad press about Baldoni but cited no evidence to support those claims.
By mid-August, the team was reveling in the damage to Lively’s image.
On Aug. 16, Nathan shared the Daily Mail article headlined “Is Blake Lively set to be CANCELLED?” with references to “hard to watch” videos and a “tone deaf” promotional Q&A.
“Wow. You really outdid yourself with this piece,” Abel responded.
“That’s why you hired me right?” Nathan replied. “I’m the best.”
‘We Men Have to Step Up’
A brand marketing consultant, Terakeet, produced a report in August for Lively that concluded she had probably been the object of a “targeted, multichannel online attack” similar to one against Heard, and that it was damaging her reputation.
The report did not identify who was behind the attack.
But by analyzing “the entirety of Google’s search index” for Lively’s name, it found that 35% of the results also included a reference to Baldoni. This was highly unusual given the length of her career, the company said, and suggested that the media environment was being manipulated.
A separate report, by Lively’s hair care company, Blake Brown, concluded that the social media onslaught also had a negative effect on that business. Her product line, which had launched in August with record-breaking sales, estimates that it lost as much as 78% in sales.
With the recent arrival of “It Ends With Us” on Netflix, Baldoni has begun another round of promotion and messaging.
In an interview on “Access Hollywood,” he said that “there is never an excuse” to “hurt a woman, physically or emotionally.” He added: “We men have to step up and figure out how we can be better allies.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Domestic violence; Strikes; Entertainment industry; Motion picture directors & producers; Gender equity; Executives; Actors; Public relations; Litigation

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Entertainment industry Gender equity Executives Public relations

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Lively, Blake; Sarowitz, Steve

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Suits And Litigation (Civil); Discrimination; Consumer Reviews; Reynolds, Ryan; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Freedom Of The Press; Norway; Netflix Inc; Heard, Amber; Movies; Cele brities; Women's Rights; Domestic Violence; Hoover, Colleen (1979 ); Linkedin Corporation; Hair; California; Rap And Hip Hop; Bullies; Records And Achievements; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Adultery; Drake (Rapper); Google Inc; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Braun, Scooter (1981 ); Reddit Inc; Letters; Customer Relations; Public Relations And Publicity; Women And Girls; Executives And Management (Theory); Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Actors And Actresses; Depp, Johnny; Wireless Communications; News And News Media; Writing And Writers; Youtube.Com; Lively, Blake; Flaa, Kjersti; Rumors And Misinformation; Hollywood Reporter; Text Messaging; Dating And Relationships; Tiktok (Bytedance); Polls And Public Opinion; Cellular Telephones; Newspapers; Artificial Intelligence; Labor And Jobs; Swift, Taylor; Malpractice; Instant Messaging; Speeches And Statements; Television; Baldoni, Justin; Box Office Sales; Daily Mail; Business; Scott, Travis (1992 ); #Metoo Movement; Appointments And Executive Changes; Gender; Sony Corporation; Funerals And Memorials; New York Times; Sexual Harassment; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Books And Literature; Paramount Pictures

Title: ‘We Can Bury Anyone’: Inside a Hollywood Smear Machine

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 22, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: Gene ral Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148133915

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/we-can-bury-anyone-inside-hollywood-smear-machine/docview/3148133915/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Packed Cubicles, Empty Corner Office: [Op-Ed]

Author: Greenley, Rachel

Publication info: Greenley, Rachel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/packed-cubicles-empty-corner-office/docview/3147820414/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When it comes to remote work, executives want workers to do as they say, not as they do.
Marc Benioff, the chief executive of Salesforce, once said, "I don't work well in an office." Which makes one wonder where he was when Salesforce's employees were ordered to return to the office three or more days a week. Perhaps he was sequestered at his properties in the genteel upcountry of Hawaii's Waimea district. Or maybe at his oceanfront estate, just down the hill.
In late October, Starbucks -- under its newly minted leader, Brian Niccol -- warned the coffee company's corporate employees that they must also return to the office three days a week by January. Yet Mr. Niccol continues to make his primary home in sunny Newport Beach, Calif. Starbucks has provided him with dedicated office space, a local personal assistant and a corporate jet ready to fly him the 1,000 miles to and from the company's world headquarters in Seattle. A company representative told CNBC that Mr. Niccol will be held to the same three days a week standard.
When the Covid-19 pandemic shut down the world in 2020, many of America's office workers were suddenly able to work from home, introducing previously unimagined flexibility. They could move to more affordable locales, apply for jobs regardless of location and balance the demands of work and family. This privileged perk, however, opened a divide, as many essential workers still had to report to their stations.
Now growing numbers of the white-collar class are under increasing pressure to return, while many corner offices sit empty. The ability to work from home was always economically stratified. Now it is often being reserved for the wealthiest among us.
Research by the Stanford University economist and remote work expert Nick Bloom shows that postpandemic, the number of days people are allowed to work from home correlates to their income. Work-from-home days have fallen by 16 percent for workers earning $ 10,000 to $ 100,000 a year but only by 5 percent for those making $ 200,000 or more.
Perhaps that's why Mr. Bloom found a correlation between income earned and distance from the office. Only 5 percent of employees earning $ 10,000 to $ 50,000 a year work 50 or more miles from their company headquarters, compared with 14 percent earning more than $ 250,000. The gap is growing despite research that concludes that working from home can benefit employees and employers alike. He found that the practice improves gender mix by increasing the number of women in the work force, expands the labor supply in an otherwise tight market, improves the disability employment gap and supports families and home life. As one LinkedIn poster put it, replying to Mr. Bloom, "Isn't it amazing what the ability to put in a load of laundry during the workday can do for overall happiness."
Studies of call centers in China and Turkey that measured fully remote versus on-premise employment found that remote employees had higher performance metrics, including taking fewer sick days and processing more calls.
It seems that companies are ignoring the data. Amazon, a former employer of mine, prides itself on a data-driven culture that asks employees to be "skeptical when metrics and anecdotes differ." And yet, to support its new edict that employees must return to the office five days a week by the start of the new year, the company issued a letter that had a conspicuous lack of such data. Instead, Amazon Web Services' chief, Matt Garman, in an all-staff meeting for the division, reportedly leaned on phrases like "I feel" and "we believe." For a company that values data so highly, the top brass sure are in their feelings.
If the C-suites are not being driven by data, what is driving them? Studies presented at Stanford University's October 2024 Remote Work Conference analyzed over 1,200 companies with return-to-office policies, and they found that such orders were more likely to be delivered after a poor financial performance. This suggests the office mania is less about improving company operations and more about reassuring shareholders that leadership means business. Given that those orders also upset longstanding workers to the point of quitting, perhaps they're also a cloaked way to reduce head count.
The shift from back to the office is not only ungrounded in research; it is also damaging, particularly for people with disabilities and for caregivers. During the pandemic, employment for workers with a disability rose by 22 percent. The economist and Nobel laureate Claudia Goldin noted in her 2024 Nobel lecture that creating virtual jobs that are akin to their in-office counterparts brightens the professional prospects for caregivers, especially women. Caregivers and people with disabilities shouldn't have to settle for lower-paid or less desirable roles.
Having worked for Amazon and Starbucks, I've heard the frustration from former colleagues facing child-care challenges, grueling commutes and moves across the country. It seems particularly cruel to be hired into a role advertised as fully remote and then told to "return" to an office that's not even in the same state.
This divide is evident in vacation locales such as Big Sky, Mont., and Aspen and Telluride, Colo., where the rich and remote have exacerbated a wealth gap and an affordable housing crisis and have changed the character of the country. While epic ski slopes beckon the C-suite, service workers drive from increasing distances to steam lattes and shovel snow. As these towns devolve into the patricians and the plebeians, it's as though American society is becoming ancient Rome.
Calls for workers to return to the office while company leaders stay remote are particularly tough to swallow, given research showing that it's the C-suite that is more ineffective from afar -- not the rank and file. Ran Duchin of Boston College and Denis Sosyura of Arizona State University tracked over 900 long-distance chief executives and found that they underperform compared with their on-premise counterparts. The greater the distance between the C.E.O.'s home and the company's headquarters, the greater the performance gap.
And using a jet to quickly close literal distances only widens a class gap.
Ms. Greenley is a former tech executive currently working on an essay collection.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
This article appeared in print on page SR8.

Subject: Work at home; Caregivers; People with disabilities; Disability; Employees; Employment; Pandemics; Coffeehouses

Business indexing term: Subject: Work at home Employees Employment Coffeehouses

Company / organization: Name: Stanford University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/20/opinion/remote-work-rto.html

Title: Packed Cubicles, Empty Corner Office:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 22, 2024

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3147820414

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/packed-cubicles-empty-corner-office/docview/3147820414/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-31

Database: Gl obal Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hegseth Guard's Past Includes Court-Martial: [Correction]

Author: Philipps, Dave; Lafraniere, Sharon

Publication info: Philipps, Dave; Lafraniere, Sharon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hegseth-guards-past-includes-court-martial/docview/3148717922/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: John Hasenbein, who has escorted Donald J. Trump's pick for defense secretary to meetings on Capitol Hill, said he was unjustly prosecuted for the 2019 episode.
When Pete Hegseth visited senators on Capitol Hill this month in an effort to show that he has the qualifications and judgment to lead the Defense Department, he was escorted by a security guard with a dark episode in his past.
The guard, a former Army Special Forces master sergeant named John Jacob Hasenbein, left the military after a 2019 training event in which witnesses said he beat a civilian role player -- kicking him, punching him and leaving him hogtied in a pool of his own blood.
Mr. Hegseth's choice of Mr. Hasenbein as a security escort is the latest instance in which he has stood by soldiers accused of crimes. He has repeatedly criticized military leaders as being too "woke" and waging a "war on warriors."
In this case, Timothy Parlatore, Mr. Hegseth's lawyer, said Mr. Hasenbein was the "victim of unjust treatment by a broken military justice system," and Mr. Hegseth was proud to work with him. He added, "It is stories like his that demonstrate the change needed in the Department of Defense."
The Army charged Mr. Hasenbein with aggravated assault and reckless endangerment. A military jury found him guilty of the assault charge in a court-martial in 2020, according to Army records. But the judge overseeing the case declared a mistrial after learning that a friend of Mr. Hasenbein had been talking to a juror throughout the trial, court records show. The Army did not retry the case.
"This guy has real anger issues," Ahmed Altameemi, the man whom Mr. Hasenbein was charged with assaulting, said in an interview. "He is not a safe man. I don't know why they gave him this position. Don't they do any background checks?"
Mr. Hasenbein provided The New York Times with several official records involving his service and the case against him, along with a statement in a text message: "I have no conviction and I was honorably retired after 22 years of service. That's all you need to know."
Timothy Turner, senior counsel at the firm that represented Mr. Hasenbein in a defamation case that he filed after the court-martial proceedings, said that Mr. Hasenbein agreed to retire rather than face another trial. Mr. Hasenbein claimed in that case that he was effectively forced out of the military because of false and misleading statements by employees of the independent contractor who conducted the exercise.
It is unclear whether Mr. Hegseth, President-elect Donald J. Trump's pick for one of the most important cabinet posts, knew of Mr. Hasenbein's record when he hired him. But some details of his case have been online for years.
Michèle A. Flournoy, an under secretary of defense during President Barack Obama's first term, said having Mr. Hasenbein as security "is not a good look" for Mr. Hegseth. She said Mr. Hegseth had seemed to display "a pattern of disregard for the military institutional efforts to hold its own accountable."
Mr. Hegseth's path to confirmation as defense secretary has been far from smooth.
He has faced allegations of excessive alcohol use. He has said that he has never had a drinking problem but that he would not drink at all if he becomes defense secretary. In 2017, he was accused of raping a woman, an allegation that he denied and that resulted in no criminal charges but led to an out-of-court financial settlement with the woman. At first some Republican senators appeared to have reservations about Mr. Hegseth, but Mr. Trump has stood by him.
The exercise that preceded the end of Mr. Hasenbein's military career was held at Fort Knox, Ky., for his Fifth Special Forces Group unit before it deployed overseas. It was organized with a private contractor, F3EA, to simulate a hostage rescue from a terrorist cell. Mr. Altameemi, now 38, was employed by the company to play the role of an ISIS fighter with information about a hostage whom Mr. Hasenbein's team was supposed to free.
Mr. Hasenbein, now 45, had deployed to Iraq eight times and was awarded two Bronze Stars, and was a senior soldier in a group that detained Mr. Altameemi. The soldiers forced Mr. Altameemi to the ground and held him down, according to a video reviewed by The Times.
Mr. Altameemi, a former member of the Iraqi Army's elite counterterrorism service who is now an American citizen living in Texas, said he had been a role player in other military exercises and never had any issues, but this one turned inexplicably brutal.
"They were supposed to ask me where the hostage is at," he said in an interview. "But they didn't give me a chance. They just started hurting me bad."
In a memo recounting the episode, a supervisor with F3EA said Mr. Hasenbein rubbed Mr. Altameemi's face into a concrete pillar, kicked him and delivered repeated "hammer-fist" strikes to his ribs and "knee strikes" to his face.
Another company employee involved in the exercise said, "The other guys realized things were wrong and started to calm down." But Mr. Hasenbein "didn't calm down -- he never calmed down," he said.
A third said he found Mr. Altameemi face down and hogtied, moaning in pain, with a pool of blood around his head.
Among other injuries, Mr. Altameemi was left with a broken nose, a broken tooth, a sprained shoulder, a scalp hematoma and blunt facial trauma, according to memos and statements by company employees about the episode. He was taken to the hospital after the exercise.
Mr. Altameemi said Mr. Hasenbein knew that a training exercise was not supposed to happen like that. "He is a man with experience, a master sergeant -- he knows this is training on American soil," Mr. Altameemi said.
During the court-martial that followed, an expert for the defense said that based on Mr. Altameemi's behavior during the exercise, Mr. Hasenbein's actions were reasonable. The defense also asserted that a commander had pressured two soldiers to change their statements that nothing wrong had happened during the episode.
The prosecutor's expert testified that Mr. Hasenbein's use of "knee strikes" against Mr. Altameemi, who lacked protected gear, amounted to excessive force.
The military jury found Mr. Hasenbein guilty of the aggravated assault charge but acquitted him on a charge of reckless endangerment. He was sentenced to no punishment.
After the court-martial proceeding, the judge discovered that a juror had repeatedly talked to a friend of Mr. Hasenbein who was a fellow Special Forces soldier. Among other comments, the juror told Mr. Hasenbein's friend that physical aggression seemed "pretty normal" in training scenarios, according to the judge's decision to declare a mistrial.
In his defamation case against F3EA, filed in December 2020, Mr. Hasenbein accused the firm's employees of a conspiracy to harm his reputation that effectively forced him out of the military. Mr. Parlatore, Mr. Hegseth's lawyer, said on Sunday that Mr. Hasenbein voluntarily retired because he would not have been promoted after the criminal case.
The defamation case was dropped in September 2021 with the agreement of both sides.
After leaving the military, Mr. Hasenbein worked for several personal security companies, according to his LinkedIn account and a former employer.
Julie Tate contributed research.
Julie Tate contributed research.
Photograph John Jacob Hasenbein, above left, has escorted Pete Hegseth to visits with senators. Mr. Hasenbein was accused of beating Ahmed Altameemi, left, a civilian role player in a military exercise. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HAIYUN JIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AHMED ALTAMEEMI) This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Juries; Defense contracts; Military training; Employees; Rape; Trials; Court hearings & proceedings; Independent contractors; Acquittals & mistrials; Defamation; Military personnel; Special forces; Armed forces; Courts martial

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Independent contractors

Location: Iraq; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Hegseth, Pete; Hasenbein, John

Company / organization: Name : Department of Defense; NAICS: 928110

Title: Hegseth Guard's Past Includes Court-Martial:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 17, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148717922

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hegseth-guards-past-includes-court-martial/docview/3148717922/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 17, 2024

Last updated: 2025-09-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hegseth Guard's Past Includes Court-Martial: [Correction]

Author: Philipps, Dave; Lafraniere, Sharon

Publication info: Philipps, Dave; Lafraniere, Sharon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hegseth-guards-past-includes-court-martial/docview/3145250189/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: John Hasenbein, who has escorted Donald J. Trump's pick for defense secretary to meetings on Capitol Hill, said he was unjustly prosecuted for the 2019 episode.
When Pete Hegseth visited senators on Capitol Hill this month in an effort to show that he has the qualifications and judgment to lead the Defense Department, he was escorted by a security guard with a dark episode in his past.
The guard, a former Army Special Forces master sergeant named John Jacob Hasenbein, left the military after a 2019 training event in which witnesses said he beat a civilian role player -- kicking him, punching him and leaving him hogtied in a pool of his own blood.
Mr. Hegseth's choice of Mr. Hasenbein as a security escort is the latest instance in which he has stood by soldiers accused of crimes. He has repeatedly criticized military leaders as being too "woke" and waging a "war on warriors."
In this case, Timothy Parlatore, Mr. Hegseth's lawyer, said Mr. Hasenbein was the "victim of unjust treatment by a broken military justice system," and Mr. Hegseth was proud to work with him. He added, "It is stories like his that demonstrate the change needed in the Department of Defense."
The Army charged Mr. Hasenbein with aggravated assault and reckless endangerment. A military jury found him guilty of the assault charge in a court-martial in 2020, according to Army records. But the judge overseeing the case declared a mistrial after learning that a friend of Mr. Hasenbein had been talking to a juror throughout the trial, court records show. The Army did not retry the case.
"This guy has real anger issues," Ahmed Altameemi, the man whom Mr. Hasenbein was charged with assaulting, said in an interview. "He is not a safe man. I don't know why they gave him this position. Don't they do any background checks?"
Mr. Hasenbein provided The New York Times with several official records involving his service and the case against him, along with a statement in a text message: "I have no conviction and I was honorably retired after 22 years of service. That's all you need to know."
Timothy Turner, senior counsel at the firm that represented Mr. Hasenbein in a defamation case that he filed after the court-martial proceedings, said that Mr. Hasenbein agreed to retire rather than face another trial. Mr. Hasenbein claimed in that case that he was effectively forced out of the military because of false and misleading statements by employees of the independent contractor who conducted the exercise.
It is unclear whether Mr. Hegseth, President-elect Donald J. Trump's pick for one of the most important cabinet posts, knew of Mr. Hasenbein's record when he hired him. But some details of his case have been online for years.
Michèle A. Flournoy, an under secretary of defense during President Barack Obama's first term, said having Mr. Hasenbein as security "is not a good look" for Mr. Hegseth. She said Mr. Hegseth had seemed to display "a pattern of disregard for the military institutional efforts to hold its own accountable."
Mr. Hegseth's path to confirmation as defense secretary has been far from smooth.
He has faced allegations of excessive alcohol use. He has said that he has never had a drinking problem but that he would not drink at all if he becomes defense secretary. In 2017, he was accused of raping a woman, an allegation that he denied and that resulted in no criminal charges but led to an out-of-court financial settlement with the woman. At first some Republican senators appeared to have reservations about Mr. Hegseth, but Mr. Trump has stood by him.
The exercise that preceded the end of Mr. Hasenbein's military career was held at Fort Knox, Ky., for his Fifth Special Forces Group unit before it deployed overseas. It was organized with a private contractor, F3EA, to simulate a hostage rescue from a terrorist cell. Mr. Altameemi, now 38, was employed by the company to play the role of an ISIS fighter with information about a hostage whom Mr. Hasenbein's team was supposed to free.
Mr. Hasenbein, now 45, had deployed to Iraq eight times and was awarded two Bronze Stars, and was a senior soldier in a group that detained Mr. Altameemi. The soldiers forced Mr. Altameemi to the ground and held him down, according to a video reviewed by The Times.
Mr. Altameemi, a former member of the Iraqi Army's elite counterterrorism service who is now an American citizen living in Texas, said he had been a role player in other military exercises and never had any issues, but this one turned inexplicably brutal.
"They were supposed to ask me where the hostage is at," he said in an interview. "But they didn't give me a chance. They just started hurting me bad."
In a memo recounting the episode, a supervisor with F3EA said Mr. Hasenbein rubbed Mr. Altameemi's face into a concrete pillar, kicked him and delivered repeated "hammer-fist" strikes to his ribs and "knee strikes" to his face.
Another company employee involved in the exercise said, "The other guys realized things were wrong and started to calm down." But Mr. Hasenbein "didn't calm down -- he never calmed down," he said.
A third said he found Mr. Altameemi face down and hogtied, moaning in pain, with a pool of blood around his head.
Among other injuries, Mr. Altameemi was left with a broken nose, a broken tooth, a sprained shoulder, a scalp hematoma and blunt facial trauma, according to memos and statements by company employees about the episode. He was taken to the hospital after the exercise.
Mr. Altameemi said Mr. Hasenbein knew that a training exercise was not supposed to happen like that. "He is a man with experience, a master sergeant -- he knows this is training on American soil," Mr. Altameemi said.
During the court-martial that followed, an expert for the defense said that based on Mr. Altameemi's behavior during the exercise, Mr. Hasenbein's actions were reasonable. The defense also asserted that a commander had pressured two soldiers to change their statements that nothing wrong had happened during the episode.
The prosecutor's expert testified that Mr. Hasenbein's use of "knee strikes" against Mr. Altameemi, who lacked protected gear, amounted to excessive force.
The military jury found Mr. Hasenbein guilty of the aggravated assault charge but acquitted him on a charge of reckless endangerment. He was sentenced to no punishment.
After the court-martial proceeding, the judge discovered that a juror had repeatedly talked to a friend of Mr. Hasenbein who was a fellow Special Forces soldier. Among other comments, the juror told Mr. Hasenbein's friend that physical aggression seemed "pretty normal" in training scenarios, according to the judge's decision to declare a mistrial.
In his defamation case against F3EA, filed in December 2020, Mr. Hasenbein accused the firm's employees of a conspiracy to harm his reputation that effectively forced him out of the military. Mr. Parlatore, Mr. Hegseth's lawyer, said on Sunday that Mr. Hasenbein voluntarily retired because he would not have been promoted after the criminal case.
The defamation case was dropped in September 2021 with the agreement of both sides.
After leaving the military, Mr. Hasenbein worked for several personal security companies, according to his LinkedIn account and a former employer.
Julie Tate contributed research.
Julie Tate contributed research.
Photograph John Jacob Hasenbein, above left, has escorted Pete Hegseth to visits with senators. Mr. Hasenbein was accused of beating Ahmed Altameemi, left, a civilian role player in a military exercise. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HAIYUN JIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AHMED ALTAMEEMI) This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Juries; Defense contracts; Military training; Employees; Trials; Rape; Court hearings & proceedings; Independent contractors; Acquittals & mistrials; Defamation; Military personnel; Armed forces; Special forces

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Independent contractors

Location: Iraq

People: Trump, Donald J; Hegseth, Pete

Company / organization: Name: Department of Defense; NAICS: 928110

Title: Hegseth Guard's Past Includes Court-Martial:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 17, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3145250189

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hegseth-guards-past-includes-court-martial/docview/3145250189/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 17, 2024

Last updated: 2025-04-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Grand Jury Said to Hear Evidence Against Chief Adviser to Mayor Adams

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Chelsia Rose Marcius

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Chelsia Rose Marcius. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/grand-jury-said-hear-evidence-against-chief/docview/3144767097/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

NEW YORK — Manhattan prosecutors investigating corruption allegations against Ingrid Lewis-Martin, chief adviser to Mayor Eric Adams, have presented evidence to a grand jury and could seek an indictment as soon as this week, people with knowledge of the matter said.
Lewis-Martin, 63, abruptly resigned from city government Sunday.
She has been under investigation at least since September, when investigators from the district attorney’s office seized her phones at Kennedy International Airport as she and a group of colleagues and friends were returning from a vacation to Japan. The inquiry has examined possible bribery and money laundering in the city’s leasing of commercial properties, several people said in September.
But the district attorney’s office has also been examining other possible crimes, some of the people said. They include allegations that involve Lewis-Martin’s son, Glenn Martin II, a professional DJ; Mayank Dwivedi, a hotelier who owns and operates several properties in New York City and the Hamptons; and one of his business associates. Those allegations appear to be the focus of the possible charges this week, the people said. Their precise nature was unclear, but that aspect of the investigation has focused on possible bribery and official misconduct, the people said.
The investigation appears to be continuing, and there is no indication that it is focused on Adams, who is facing trial in April on unrelated federal charges, including bribery, conspiracy and wire fraud.
Lewis-Martin’s lawyer, Arthur Aidala, said in a statement that he and his client have been aware of the investigation since her phones were seized. “The only thing of which we are certain is that Ingrid Lewis-Martin has served this city admirably for decades in an ethical, moral and law abiding manner,” the statement said.
Lawyers for Martin and Dwivedi did not immediately respond to requests for comment. A lawyer for Dwivedi’s associate declined to comment.
Lewis-Martin said in her statement announcing her resignation that she planned to spend more time with her family. The statement, which was issued before The New York Times reported the possible charges against her, did not address the investigation. Her resignation from the post, in which she was paid approximately $287,000, was first reported by Politico.
Addressing the mayor, she said: “I extend humble gratitude to you for encouraging me to be my authentic self and for having my back during some trying times. As you would say, this has been a good ride; I will use author’s license and say that this has been an amazing ride.”
Viewed as the second-most-powerful person at City Hall, Lewis-Martin has been part of Adams’ inner circle for decades, becoming known as a fiercely loyal lieutenant who could make deals and fend off threats from opponents.
In a statement Sunday in response to her resignation, Adams said Lewis-Martin “has not been just a friend, a confidante and trusted adviser, but also a sister.”
“We’ve always talked about when this day would come, and while we’ve long planned for it, it is still hard to know that Ingrid won’t be right next door every day,” he said. “I, and every New Yorker, owe her a debt of gratitude for her decades of service to our city.”
The presentation of evidence to a grand jury and the possibility of criminal charges against Lewis-Martin, the mayor’s closest confidant who has worked with him for decades, could hardly come at a worse time for Adams.
The first-term mayor’s trial in April will come just months before he will seek a second term in the 2025 mayoral election. Three other federal corruption investigations focused on some of his most senior aides — all of whom resigned after those inquiries became public — appear to be grinding along.
Grand juries like the one focused on Lewis-Martin conduct their work in secret, and little is publicly known about the evidence that prosecutors put before the panel. They can ask its 23 members to vote to indict, but that does not ensure charges will be brought. The jurors could determine the evidence is insufficient to support criminal charges.
Spokespeople for the office of District Attorney Alvin Bragg and the city’s Department of Investigation, which is conducting the investigation with prosecutors, both declined to comment.
Lewis-Martin’s conduct has come under some scrutiny in connection with several other investigations involving Adams and members of his inner circle, according to records and people with knowledge of those inquiries.
The mayor’s indictment describes a July 2022 meeting with Turkey’s then-consul general at the nation’s new consulate building, which was attended by the mayor’s longtime Turkish liaison and Lewis-Martin, among others.
The indictment identifies her as his “senior adviser,” and the meeting appears in her appointment calendars. The indictment says the liaison, Rana Abbasova, at some point told the then-consul general to contact Lewis-Martin with any concerns regarding construction at the consulate, whose expedited opening in 2021 was a focus of the bribery charge against Adams.
Lewis-Martin has also received two federal grand jury subpoenas in connection with investigations into the mayor and his inner circle, people with knowledge of the matter have said. One came from federal prosecutors in Manhattan, who sought information in connection with the investigation that resulted in the mayor’s indictment, and the other came from federal prosecutors in Brooklyn who are investigating Adams’ former liaison to the Chinese community, Winnie Greco.
Lewis-Martin and Adams, a retired police captain, met in 1984, she has said, through her husband, Glenn Martin, a friend of Adams at the police academy. When Adams decided to run for state Senate in 2006, he asked her to serve as campaign manager.
After he became Brooklyn borough president in 2014, Lewis-Martin, his deputy, pushed the limits of ethics rules, supporters of the mayor told the Times last year. In one instance, as leader of a nonprofit that Adams used to promote himself and the borough, she asked real estate firms that had business with the borough president’s office to donate, colleagues said, a possible conflict of interest.
Lewis-Martin’s goddaughter, Brianna Suggs, has figured in the separate federal investigation that led to Adams’ indictment in September on bribery, wire fraud, conspiracy and campaign finance charges. Suggs was Adams’ chief campaign fundraiser, and her home was searched by federal authorities late last year.
After Adams won the mayoral election in 2021, several of his supporters urged him not to put Lewis-Martin in City Hall. Still, Adams named her his top aide. She would go on to serve as what many viewed as a divisive force within city government, overriding other officials and feuding with one of Adams’ top deputy mayors.
When the district attorney’s investigators took Lewis-Martin’s phones at the airport Sept. 27, they also seized the phones of several of her traveling companions, including Jesse Hamilton, a top New York City real estate official and former state senator who is close to both the mayor and Lewis-Martin; and Diana Boutross, a broker involved in city leases who has raised money for the mayor, the people said. Their conduct also appears to be under scrutiny as part of the investigation.
Boutross and her lawyer did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Hamilton’s lawyer, Mark Pollard, said he was unaware of any wrongdoing by his client, adding, “However, we will fully cooperate with any pending investigation because he wants to clear his name and his reputation.”
At the airport, either shortly before or after members of the group had their phones seized by the district attorney’s investigators, federal investigators separately served Lewis-Martin with the grand jury subpoenas from prosecutors in both Brooklyn and Manhattan, people have said.
And on the same day, the investigators from the district attorney’s office also searched Lewis-Martin’s Brooklyn home and seized the phone of her son, who was not on the trip, two of the people said.
Days later, they seized the phones of four more people, at least some of whom have close ties to Lewis-Martin, some of the people said. They include Joseph Douek, a longtime member of the city Planning Commission appointed to his position three times by Adams; Gina Argento, CEO of a soundstage business that controls a number of large properties around the city, who came under scrutiny a decade ago in a campaign finance investigation of Adams’ predecessor, Bill de Blasio; and two hoteliers.
One of those, Weihong Hu, has close ties with the mayor. The other, Dwivedi, describes himself on LinkedIn as a “real estate entrepreneur, hotelier and restaurateur.”
A lawyer for Hu, Benjamin Brafman, said she was not a target of the investigation. Douek did not respond to requests for comment.
Boutross, the real estate broker, and Argento, the sound stage executive, made several appearances on Lewis-Martin’s schedules, records show.
In August 2022, Lewis-Martin was slated to have dinner with Boutross at Casa Cipriani, a private club in lower Manhattan. The next night, she was scheduled to dine with Argento, a longtime donor to Adams, at an undisclosed location. Two months later, she was scheduled to have another dinner with Boutross and to attend a film and television production industry meeting that Argento’s brother Tony also attended.
The following year, Boutross would be tapped to manage one of the city government’s main office space brokerage accounts, despite her relative lack of relevant experience in that specialty.
A lawyer for Argento, her husband, John Ciafone, said she had “absolutely not” engaged in any wrongdoing and suggested that the scrutiny was related to her well-known opposition to street-use changes along McGuinness Boulevard in Brooklyn.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Bribery; Mayors; Scandals; Subpoenas

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Real Estate Brokers; Hamptons (Ny); United States; Linkedin Corporation; Elections; Aidala, Arthur L; Politics And Government; New Yorker; Brooklyn (Nyc); Bribery And Kickbacks; Boutross, Diana; Corruption (Institutional); Manhattan (Nyc); Urban Areas; Restaurants; New York City; Greco, Winnie; Kennedy International Airport (Queens, Ny); Brafman, Benjamin; Police; Lewis Martin, Ingrid P; Bragg, Alvin; Customer Relations; Politico, The; Disc Jockeys; Eric Adams Federal Corruption Case (24 Cr 556); Department Of Investigation (Nyc); Law And Legislation; News And News Media; Frauds And Swindling; Local Government; Adams, Eric L; New York State; Japan; Real Estate (Commercial); Newspapers; Suggs, Brianna; Abbasova, Rana; Nepotism; Hamilton, Jesse; Rashbaum, William K; Jury System; Television; Travel And Vacations; Elections, District Attorneys; Campaign Finance; De Blasio, Bill; New York Times; Assets, Frozen; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Conflicts Of Interest

Title: Grand Jury Said to Hear Evidence Against Chief Adviser to Mayor Adams

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 16, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3144767097

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/grand-jury-said-hear-evidence-against-chief/docview/3144767097/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Grand Jury Is Said to Hear Evidence on Adams Aide: [National Desk]

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Chelsia Rose Marcius

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Chelsia Rose Marcius. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/grand-jury-is-said-hear-evidence-on-adams-aide/docview/3144744296/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Prosecutors in the office of the Manhattan district attorney, Alvin Bragg, have been presenting evidence at least in part focused on the aide, Ingrid Lewis-Martin.
Manhattan prosecutors investigating corruption allegations against Ingrid Lewis-Martin, the chief adviser to Mayor Eric Adams, have presented evidence to a grand jury and could seek an indictment as soon as this week, people with knowledge of the matter said.
Ms. Lewis-Martin, 63, abruptly resigned from city government on Sunday.
She has been under investigation at least since September, when investigators from the district attorney's office seized her phones at Kennedy International Airport as she and a group of colleagues and friends were returning from a vacation to Japan. The inquiry has examined possible bribery and money laundering in the city's leasing of commercial properties, several people said in September.
But the district attorney's office has also been examining other possible crimes, some of the people said. They include allegations that involve Ms. Lewis-Martin's son, Glenn Martin II, a professional D.J.; Mayank Dwivedi, a hotelier who owns and operates several properties in New York City and the Hamptons; and one of his business associates. Those allegations appear to be the focus of the possible charges this week, the people said. Their precise nature was unclear, but that aspect of the investigation has focused on possible bribery and official misconduct, the people said.
The investigation appears to be continuing, and there is no indication that it is focused on Mr. Adams, who is facing trial in April on unrelated federal charges including bribery, conspiracy and wire fraud.
Ms. Lewis-Martin's lawyer, Arthur L. Aidala, said in a statement that he and his client have been aware of the investigation since her phones were seized.
"The only thing of which we are certain is that Ingrid Lewis-Martin has served this city admirably for decades in an ethical, moral and law abiding manner," the statement said.
Lawyers for Mr. Martin and Mr. Dwivedi did not immediately respond to requests for comment. A lawyer for Mr. Dwivedi's associate declined to comment.
Ms. Lewis-Martin said in her statement announcing her resignation that she planned to spend more time with her family. The statement, which was issued before The New York Times reported the possible charges against her, did not address the investigation. Her resignation from the post, where she was paid approximately $ 287,000, was first reported by Politico New York.
Addressing the mayor, she said: "I extend humble gratitude to you for encouraging me to be my authentic self and for having my back during some trying times. As you would say, this has been a good ride; I will use author's license and say that this has been an amazing ride."
Viewed as the second most powerful person at City Hall, Ms. Lewis-Martin has been part of Mr. Adams's inner circle for decades, becoming known as a fiercely loyal lieutenant who could make deals and fend off threats from opponents.
In a statement on Sunday in response to her resignation, Mr. Adams said Ms. Lewis-Martin "has not been just a friend, a confidante and trusted adviser, but also a sister."
"We've always talked about when this day would come, and while we've long planned for it, it is still hard to know that Ingrid won't be right next door every day," he said. "I, and every New Yorker, owe her a debt of gratitude for her decades of service to our city."
The presentation of evidence to a grand jury and the possibility of criminal charges against Ms. Lewis-Martin, the mayor's closest confidant who has worked with him for decades, could hardly come at a worse time for Mr. Adams.
The first-term mayor's trial in April, will come just months before he will seek a second term in the 2025 mayoral election. Three other federal corruption investigations focused on some of his most senior aides -- all of whom resigned after those inquiries became public -- appear to be grinding along.
Grand juries like the one focused on Ms. Lewis-Martin conduct their work in secret, and little is publicly known about the evidence that prosecutors put before the panel. They can ask its 23 members to vote to indict, but that does not ensure that charges will be brought. The jurors could determine that the evidence is insufficient to support criminal charges.
Spokeswomen for the office of the district attorney, Alvin L. Bragg, and the city's Department of Investigation, which is conducting the investigation with the prosecutors, both declined to comment.
Ms. Lewis-Martin's conduct has come under some scrutiny in connection with several other investigations involving Mr. Adams and members of his inner circle, according to records and people with knowledge of those inquires.
The mayor's indictment describes a July 2022 meeting with Turkey's then-consul general at the nation's new consulate building, which was attended by the mayor's longtime Turkish liaison and Ms. Lewis-Martin, among others.
The indictment identifies her as his "senior adviser," and the meeting appears in her appointment calendars. The indictment says the liaison, Rana Abbasova, at some point told the then-consul general to contact Ms. Lewis-Martin with any concerns regarding construction at the consulate, whose expedited opening in 2021 was a focus of the bribery charge against Mr. Adams.
Ms. Lewis-Martin has also received two federal grand jury subpoenas in connection with investigations into the mayor and his inner circle, people with knowledge of the matter have said. One came from federal prosecutors in Manhattan, who sought information in connection with the investigation that resulted in the mayor's indictment, and the other came from federal prosecutors in Brooklyn who are investigating Mr. Adams's former liaison to the Chinese community, Winnie Greco.
Ms. Lewis-Martin and Mr. Adams, a retired police captain, met in 1984, she has said, through her husband, Glenn Martin, a friend of Mr. Adams's at the police academy. When Mr. Adams decided to run for the State Senate in 2006, he asked her to serve as campaign manager.
After he became Brooklyn borough president in 2014, Ms. Lewis-Martin, his deputy, pushed the limits of ethics rules, supporters of the mayor told The Times last year. In one instance, as leader of a nonprofit that Mr. Adams used to promote himself and the borough, she asked real estate firms that had business with the borough president's office to donate, colleagues said, a possible conflict of interest.
Ms. Lewis-Martin's goddaughter, Brianna Suggs, has figured in the separate federal investigation that led to Mr. Adams's indictment in September on bribery, wire fraud, conspiracy and campaign finance charges. Ms. Suggs was Mr. Adams's chief campaign fund-raiser, and her home was searched by federal authorities late last year.
After Mr. Adams won the mayoral election in 2021, several of his supporters urged him not to put Ms. Lewis-Martin in City Hall. Still, Mr. Adams named her his top aide. She would go on to serve as what many viewed as a divisive force within city government, overriding other officials and feuding with one of Mr. Adams's top deputy mayors.
When the district attorney's investigators took Ms. Lewis-Martin's phones at the airport on Sept. 27, they also seized the phones of several of her traveling companions, including Jesse Hamilton, a top New York City real estate official and former state senator who is close to both the mayor and Ms. Lewis-Martin, and Diana Boutross, a broker involved in city leases who has raised money for the mayor, the people said. Their conduct also appears to be under scrutiny as part of the investigation.
Ms. Boutross and her lawyer did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Mr. Hamilton's lawyer, Mark Pollard, said he was unaware of any wrongdoing by his client, adding, "However, we will fully cooperate with any pending investigation because he wants to clear his name and his reputation."
At the airport, either shortly before or after members of the group had their phones seized by the district attorney's investigators, federal investigators separately served Ms. Lewis-Martin with the grand jury subpoenas from prosecutors in both Brooklyn and Manhattan, people have said.
And on the same day, the investigators from the district attorney's office also searched Ms. Lewis-Martin's Brooklyn home and seized the phone of her son, Mr. Martin, who was not on the trip, two of the people said.
Days later, they seized the phones of four more people, at least some of whom have close ties to Ms. Lewis-Martin, some of the people said. They include Joseph Douek, a longtime member of the City Planning Commission appointed to his position three times by Mr. Adams; Gina Argento, the chief executive of a soundstage business that controls a number of large properties around the city, who came under scrutiny a decade ago in a campaign finance investigation of Mr. Adams's predecessor, Bill de Blasio; and two hoteliers.
One of those, Weihong Hu, has close ties with the mayor. The other, Mr. Dwivedi, describes himself on LinkedIn as a "real estate entrepreneur, hotelier and restaurateur."
A lawyer for Ms. Hu, Benjamin Brafman, said she was not a target of the investigation. Mr. Douek did not respond to requests for comment.
Ms. Boutross, the real estate broker, and Ms. Argento, the sound stage executive, made several appearances on Ms. Lewis-Martin's schedules, records show.
In August 2022, Ms. Lewis-Martin was slated to have dinner with Ms. Boutross at Casa Cipriani, a private club in Lower Manhattan. The next night, she was scheduled to dine with Ms. Argento, a longtime donor to Mr. Adams, at an undisclosed location. Two months later, she was scheduled to have another dinner with Ms. Boutross and to attend a film and television production industry meeting that Ms. Argento's brother Tony also attended.
The following year, Ms. Boutross would be tapped to manage one of the city government's main office space brokerage accounts, despite her relative lack of relevant experience in that specialty.
A lawyer for Ms. Argento, her husband, John J. Ciafone, said she had "absolutely not" engaged in any wrongdoing and suggested that the scrutiny was related to her well known opposition to street-use changes along McGuinness Boulevard in Brooklyn.
Photograph Ingrid Lewis-Martin last year with Eric Adams, New York's mayor. His closest confidante for decades, she resigned on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Bribery; Mayors; Scandals; Subpoenas

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/15/nyregion/ingrid-lewis-martin-resigns-eric-adams.html

Title: Grand Jury Is Said to Hear Evidence on Adams Aide:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 16, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3144744296

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/grand-jury-is-said-hear-evidence-on-adams-aide/docview/3144744296/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump's Pick as Mideast Adviser Isn't the Tycoon He's Let On to Be: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Maclean, Ruth; Scheck, Justin; Homans, Charles; Olawoyin, Oladeinde

Publication info: Maclean, Ruth; Scheck, Justin; Homans, Charles; Olawoyin, Oladeinde. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trumps-pick-as-mideast-adviser-isnt-tycoon-hes/docview/3143473799/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: President-elect Donald Trump's incoming Middle East adviser, Massad Boulos, has enjoyed a reputation as a billionaire mogul at the helm of a business that bears his family name.
Mr. Boulos has been profiled as a tycoon by the world's media, telling a reporter in October that his company is worth billions. Mr. Trump called him a "highly respected leader in the business world, with extensive experience on the international scene."
The president-elect even lavished what may be his highest praise: a "dealmaker."
In fact, records show that Mr. Boulos has spent the past two decades selling trucks and heavy machinery in Nigeria for a company his father-in-law controls. He is chief executive of the company, SCOA Nigeria PLC, which made a profit of less than $ 66,000 last year, corporate filings show.
There is no indication in corporate documents that Mr. Boulos, a Lebanese-American whose son is married to Mr. Trump's daughter Tiffany, is a man of significant wealth as a result of his businesses. The truck dealership is valued at about $ 865,000 at its current share price. Mr. Boulos's stake, according to securities filings, is worth $ 1.53.
As for Boulos Enterprises, the company that has been called his family business in The Financial Times and elsewhere, a company officer there said it is owned by an unrelated Boulos family.
Mr. Boulos will advise on one of the world's most complicated and conflict-wracked regions -- a region that Mr. Boulos said this week that he has not visited in years. The advisory position does not require Senate approval.
The confusion over Mr. Boulos's background -- and his failure for years to clear up misunderstandings until questioned this week by The Times -- raises questions about how thoroughly Mr. Trump's team vetted his nominees. The team was caught by surprise by allegations of sexual misconduct against Pete Hegseth, the pick for defense secretary.
A spokeswoman for the Trump transition team declined to comment.
Mr. Boulos, a Christian from northern Lebanon who emigrated to Texas as a teenager, has risen in prominence since 2018, when his son Michael began dating Tiffany Trump.
This year, Massad Boulos helped Mr. Trump woo Arab-American voters, and in the fall served as a go-between for Mr. Trump and the Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas.
In October, The Times asked him about his wealth and business dealings.
"Your company is described as a multibillion-dollar enterprise," a reporter said. "Are you yourself a billionaire?"
Mr. Boulos said he did not like to describe himself that way, but that journalists had picked up on the label.
"It's accurate to describe the company as a multibillion-dollar--?" the reporter followed up.
"Yeah," Mr. Boulos replied. "It's a big company. Long history."
Versions of this history have been recounted in The New York Times, The Economist, CNN and The Wall Street Journal.
But in a subsequent interview on Tuesday, Mr. Boulos said that he had only meant to confirm that other news outlets had written -- incorrectly -- that he runs such a company.
In another call, on Wednesday, he said he was referring to his father-in-law's companies, which he said were collectively worth more than $ 1 billion, though the company he runs is not.
"I've never really gone into any details like that about the value," he said.
He confirmed that he has no relationship with Boulos Enterprises. Asked why he had never corrected the record, he said that he made a practice of not commenting on his business.
Mr. Boulos has a history of small business ventures. Corporate records in Nigeria tie him to a restaurant, some inactive construction companies and to Tantra Beverages, a now-defunct company that was set up to sell an "erotic drink" that "gives men and women the ultimate stimulating push," according to its manufacturer.
Mr. Boulos said an associate runs the restaurant, and that he did not recall the drink venture. (After this article was published, Mr. Boulos said he did recall Tantra, and that it was part of an attempt to sell energy drinks that never got off the ground).
Any significant wealth, he said on Tuesday, comes from the family of his wife, Sarah Fadoul Boulos.
She is the daughter of Michel Zouhair Fadoul, a citizen of France and Burkina Faso who spent decades assembling a patchwork of logging, construction and automobile distribution companies throughout West and Central Africa.
The Times could find no indication, either in company documents or records from the corporate data provider Sayari, that Mr. Boulos has a direct stake in these businesses -- other than the truck dealership.
An Origin Story
Massad Boulos met Sarah Fadoul through family in Lebanon and married young, she has said. Both studied in Texas, she has said in interviews on podcasts targeting the elite in Lagos, the commercial capital of Nigeria.
Mr. Trump has referred to Mr. Boulos as a lawyer and ABC News has reported that he graduated with a law degree from the University of Houston. But the school said it has no record of that. Instead, he graduated from a separate school, the University of Houston-Downtown, in 1993 with a bachelor of business administration degree.
The couple had planned a move to New York, where she said he had been offered a job at a law firm. But her father intervened, she said, and invited the young couple to work for his business holdings in Africa.
In 1996 the couple moved to Lagos, where Ms. Fadoul Boulos said they became known as trust fund kids. "We were called the golden children," she told the "Listed Lagosian" podcast.
Mr. Fadoul put the couple in charge of a truck and machinery dealership in Nigeria, Ms. Fadoul Boulos said. Corporate filings show the company has not grown much over the years.
Business was slow when a reporter visited its Lagos headquarters this month. A few dozen heavy machines and trucks sat in a lot by a highway, and a handful of staff sat behind desks inside the office. Mr. Boulos used to come in regularly, staff members said, but since July he had been in the United States campaigning for Mr. Trump.
SCOA's branch in the Nigerian city of Kano closed four years ago because of lack of customers, a former employee, Kamal Ishaq, said Wednesday.
Ms. Fadoul Boulos has said that she worked alongside her husband for a time. But then, after an evangelical awakening, she said, God called her to dance. She set up the Society for the Performing Arts in Nigeria, where she calls herself the "visioneer." The society teaches dance to young Nigerians, runs summer camps and puts on performances.
Ms. Fadoul Boulos frequently posts videos of herself on social media doing pirouettes and waving flags to worship music -- including at her favorite Pentecostal church in Lagos, the House On The Rock, whose lead pastor gave a blessing at Tiffany Trump's wedding in 2022.
Tiffany's Million-Dollar Ring
Michael Boulos, the couple's younger son, reportedly met Tiffany Trump at the actress Lindsay Lohan's club in Greece in 2018, when he was about 22 and she 25.
Soon after their engagement, reports began to circulate describing Mr. Boulos as the son and heir of a billionaire. Massad Boulos said in an interview this week that Michael was an heir to the family business, but independently confirming its value was impossible.
The diamond ring that Michael Boulos gave Ms. Trump, with its reported $ 1 million price tag, seemed to confirm great wealth.
Michael Boulos was associate director of the truck dealership when they married, and has worked for a U.S. private equity firm and a yacht rental company, according to PitchBook.
In Nigeria, the most famous member of the Boulos family is Michael's brother Fares, who used to perform reggae music on YouTube under the name Farastafari. Now he posts TikTok skits under the name Oyibo Rebel -- oyibo means white person. His recurring characters include a caricature of a Black woman, Mama Thank God. He wears a large false bosom and a brightly colored cloth tied around his head, and mocks Nigerian women.
His LinkedIn page says he is also a director at the truck dealership.
A White House Introduction
In the October interview, Massad Boulos said that he first met Mr. Trump at a White House Christmas party in 2019.
"He was very, very warm, very welcoming," Mr. Boulos said.
Mr. Boulos appeared on Mr. Trump's behalf in Arabic-language media before the 2020 election. He played a more significant role in 2024 as an unofficial emissary to Arab American voters.
In Michigan, home to the largest-percentage Arab American population in the country, Mr. Boulos pitched Mr. Trump as the candidate best positioned to bring peace to the Middle East.
"He was a superstar," said Yahya Basha, a Syrian-American doctor and political donor in Royal Oak, Mich. "People loved him."
Mr. Trump carried the state, helped by heavily Arab-American precincts in the Detroit area.
Mr. Trump will take office at a time when the Middle East is as unstable as it's been in decades. Israel remains at war with Hamas and Lebanon is devastated by fighting between Israel and Hezbollah. Syrian rebels toppled Bashar al-Assad, the longtime dictator.
What role Mr. Trump intends for Mr. Boulos is unclear.
In an interview, Mr. Boulos said that his White House responsibilities would involve "advising on the Middle East and Arab countries," but declined to elaborate.
"The position is private," he said. "It's an adviser position."
Enaibo Asiayei and Ismail Auwal contributed reporting from Warri and Kano, Nigeria.
Photograph Massad Boulos is also the father-in-law of Tiffany Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK HAGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Trucks and heavy machinery in the forecourt of SCOA Nigeria PLC, the dealership in Lagos for which Massad Boulos is a salesman, on Wednesday. The company made under $ 66,000 last year.; Mr. Boulos's wife, Sarah Fadoul Boulos, set up the Society for the Performing Arts in Nigeria, where she calls herself the "visioneer." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAIWO AINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Michael Boulos and Tiffany Trump at the Republican National Convention. Massad Boulos helped with Arab-American outreach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) This article appeared in print on page A1, A9.

Subject: Family owned businesses; Social networks; Political campaigns; Voters; Arab Americans; Political appointments; Advisors; Personal relationships

Business indexing term: Subject: Family owned businesses Social networks

Location: Texas; Middle East; New York; United States--US; Nigeria; Lebanon

People: Boulos, Michael; Trump, Tiffany; Trump, Donald J; Assad, Bashar Al

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/12/world/africa/tru mp-massad-boulos-middle-east.html

Title: Trump's Pick as Mideast Adviser Isn't the Tycoon He's Let On to Be:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 13, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3143473799

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trumps-pick-as-mideast-adviser-isnt-tycoon-hes/docview/3143473799/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump’s Middle East Adviser Pick Is a Small-Time Truck Salesman

Author: Maclean, Ruth; Scheck, Justin; Homans, Charles; Olawoyin, Oladeinde

Publication info: Maclean, Ruth; Scheck, Justin; Homans, Charles; Olawoyin, Oladeinde. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-s-middle-east-adviser-pick-is-small-time/docview/3143439767/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

President-elect Donald Trump’s incoming Middle East adviser, Massad Boulos, has enjoyed a reputation as a billionaire mogul at the helm of a business that bears his family name.
Boulos has been profiled as a tycoon by the world’s media, telling a reporter in October that his company is worth billions. Trump called him a “highly respected leader in the business world, with extensive experience on the international scene.”
The president-elect even lavished what may be his highest praise: a “dealmaker.”
In fact, records show that Boulos has spent the past two decades selling trucks and heavy machinery in Nigeria for a company his father-in-law controls. He is CEO of the company, SCOA Nigeria PLC, which made a profit of less than $66,000 last year, corporate filings show.
There is no indication in corporate documents that Boulos, a Lebanese-American whose son is married to Trump’s daughter Tiffany, is a man of significant wealth as a result of his businesses. The truck dealership is valued at about $865,000 at its current share price. Boulos’ stake, according to securities filings, is worth $1.53.
As for Boulos Enterprises, the company that has been called his family business in The Financial Times and elsewhere, a company officer there said it is owned by an unrelated Boulos family.
Boulos will advise on one of the world’s most complicated and conflict-wracked regions — a region that Boulos said this week that he has not visited in years. The advisory position does not require Senate approval.
The confusion over Boulos’ background — and his failure for years to clear up misunderstandings until questioned this week by The New York Times — raises questions about how thoroughly Trump’s team vetted his nominees. The team was caught by surprise by allegations of sexual misconduct against Pete Hegseth, the pick for defense secretary.
A spokesperson for the Trump transition team declined to comment.
Boulos, a Christian from northern Lebanon who immigrated to Texas as a teenager, has risen in prominence since 2018, when his son Michael began dating Tiffany Trump.
This year, Massad Boulos helped Donald Trump woo Arab-American voters, and in the fall served as a go-between for Trump and Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas.
In October, the Times asked him about his wealth and business dealings.
“Your company is described as a multibillion-dollar enterprise,” a reporter said. “Are you yourself a billionaire?”
Boulos said he did not like to describe himself that way but that journalists had picked up on the label.
“It’s accurate to describe the company as a multibillion-dollar — ?” the reporter followed up.
“Yeah,” Boulos replied. “It’s a big company. Long history.”
Versions of this history have been recounted in the Times, The Economist, CNN and The Wall Street Journal.
But in a subsequent interview Tuesday, Boulos said that he had only meant to confirm that other news outlets had written — incorrectly — that he runs such a company.
In another call, on Wednesday, he said he was referring to his father-in-law’s companies, which he said were collectively worth more than $1 billion, though the company he runs is not.
“I’ve never really gone into any details like that about the value,” he said.
He confirmed that he has no relationship with Boulos Enterprises. Asked why he had never corrected the record, he said that he made a practice of not commenting on his business.
Boulos has a history of small business ventures. Corporate records in Nigeria tie him to a restaurant, some inactive construction companies and to Tantra Beverages, a now-defunct company that was set up to sell an “erotic drink” that “gives men and women the ultimate stimulating push,” according to its manufacturer.
Boulos said an associate runs the restaurant, and that he did not recall the drink venture. (After this article was published, Boulos said he did recall Tantra and that it was part of an attempt to sell energy drinks that never got off the ground).
Any significant wealth, he said Tuesday, comes from the family of his wife, Sarah Fadoul Boulos.
She is the daughter of Michel Zouhair Fadoul, a citizen of France and Burkina Faso who spent decades assembling a patchwork of logging, construction and automobile distribution companies throughout West and Central Africa.
The Times could find no indication, either in company documents or records from the corporate data provider Sayari, that Boulos has a direct stake in these businesses — other than the truck dealership.
An Origin Story
Massad Boulos met Sarah Fadoul through family in Lebanon and married young, she has said. Both studied in Texas, she has said in interviews on podcasts targeting the elite in Lagos, the commercial capital of Nigeria.
Trump has referred to Boulos as a lawyer, and ABC News has reported that he graduated with a law degree from the University of Houston. But the school said it has no record of that. Instead, he graduated from a separate school, the University of Houston-Downtown, in 1993 with a bachelor of business administration degree.
The couple had planned a move to New York, where she said he had been offered a job at a law firm. But her father intervened, she said, and invited the young couple to work for his business holdings in Africa.
In 1996, the couple moved to Lagos, where Fadoul Boulos said they became known as trust fund kids. “We were called the golden children,” she told the “Listed Lagosian” podcast.
Fadoul put the couple in charge of a truck and machinery dealership in Nigeria, Fadoul Boulos said. Corporate filings show the company has not grown much over the years.
Business was slow when a reporter visited its Lagos headquarters this month. A few dozen heavy machines and trucks sat in a lot by a highway, and a handful of staff sat behind desks inside the office. Boulos used to come in regularly, staff members said, but since July, he had been in the United States campaigning for Trump.
SCOA’s branch in the Nigerian city of Kano closed four years ago because of lack of customers, a former employee, Kamal Ishaq, said Wednesday.
Fadoul Boulos has said that she worked alongside her husband for a time. But then, after an evangelical awakening, she said, God called her to dance. She set up the Society for the Performing Arts in Nigeria, where she calls herself the “visioneer.” The society teaches dance to young Nigerians, runs summer camps and puts on performances.
Fadoul Boulos frequently posts videos of herself on social media doing pirouettes and waving flags to worship music — including at her favorite Pentecostal church in Lagos, the House on the Rock, whose lead pastor gave a blessing at Tiffany Trump’s wedding in 2022.
Tiffany Trump’s Million-Dollar Ring
Michael Boulos, the couple’s younger son, reportedly met Tiffany Trump at actress Lindsay Lohan’s club in Greece in 2018, when he was about 22 and she 25.
Soon after their engagement, reports began to circulate describing Michael Boulos as the son and heir of a billionaire. Massad Boulos said in an interview this week that Michael was an heir to the family business, but independently confirming its value was impossible.
The diamond ring that Michael Boulos gave Tiffany Trump, with its reported $1 million price tag, seemed to confirm great wealth.
Michael Boulos was associate director of the truck dealership when they married and has worked for a U.S. private equity firm and a yacht rental company, according to PitchBook.
In Nigeria, the most famous member of the Boulos family is Michael’s brother Fares, who used to perform reggae music on YouTube under the name Farastafari. Now he posts TikTok skits under the name Oyibo Rebel; oyibo means white person. His recurring characters include a caricature of a Black woman, Mama Thank God. He wears a large false bosom and a brightly colored cloth tied around his head and mocks Nigerian women.
His LinkedIn page says he is also a director at the truck dealership.
A White House Introduction
In the October interview, Massad Boulos said that he first met Donald Trump at a White House Christmas party in 2019.
“He was very, very warm, very welcoming,” Boulos said.
Boulos appeared on Trump’s behalf in Arabic-language media before the 2020 election. He played a more significant role in 2024 as an unofficial emissary to Arab American voters.
In Michigan, home to the largest-percentage Arab American population in the country, Boulos pitched Trump as the candidate best positioned to bring peace to the Middle East.
“He was a superstar,” said Yahya Basha, a Syrian American doctor and political donor in Royal Oak, Michigan. “People loved him.”
Trump carried the state, helped by heavily Arab-American precincts in the Detroit area.
Trump will take office at a time when the Middle East is as unstable as it’s been in decades. Israel remains at war with Hamas, and Lebanon is devastated by fighting between Israel and Hezbollah. Syrian rebels toppled Bashar Assad, the longtime dictator.
What role Trump intends for Boulos is unclear.
In an interview, Boulos said that his White House responsibilities would involve “advising on the Middle East and Arab countries” but declined to elaborate.
“The position is private,” he said. “It’s an adviser position.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Family owned businesses; Social networks; Trucks; Reporters; Political campaigns; Arab Americans; Voters

Business indexing term: Subject: Family owned businesses Social networks

Location: Middle East; Texas; New York; United States--US; Israel; Nigeria; Lebanon; Michigan

People: Trump, Donald J; Boulos, Michael; Trump, Tiffany

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Politics And Government; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Social Media; New York State; Securities And Commodities Violations; United States International Relations; Building (Construction); Hezbollah; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Houston (Tex); Immigration And Emigration; Abc News; Peace Process; House Of Representatives; Hamas; Senate; Presidential Transition (Us); Palestinian Authority; Small Business; Boulos, Michael; Authoritarianism (Theory And Philosophy); Restaurants; Assad, Bashar Al; United States; Linkedin Corporation; Kano (Nigeria); Syria; Israel; Elections; Presidential Election Of 2020; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Economist, The; Private Equity; Weddings And Engagements; Presidential Election Of 2024; Arabic Language; Defense And Military Forces; Boulos, Massad (1971 ); United States Politics And Government; Texas; Michigan; Nigeria; Wall Street Journal; Computers And The Internet; World; Detroit (Mich); Actors And Actresses; Middle East; Law And Legislation; Black People; News And News Media; Cnn; Youtube.Com; Burkina Faso; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); University Of Houston; Dating And Relationships; Tiktok (Bytedance); Trump, Tiffany (1993 ); Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Lagos (Nigeria); Africa; Family Business; Trump, Donald J; Financial Times; France; Economics (Theory And Philosophy); Scheck, Justin; Colleges And Universities; Abbas, Mahmoud; Lohan, Lindsay; Lebanon; Trucks And Trucking; Terrorism; New York Times; Hegseth, Pete; Sexual Harassment; Beverages; Arab Americans

Title: Trump’s Middle East Adviser Pick Is a Small-Time Truck Salesman

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 12, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3143439767

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-s-middle-east-adviser-pick-is-small-time/docview/3143439767/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

UnitedHealthcare C.E.O. Laid to Rest as Family Mourns Privately: [National Desk]

Author: Harris, Amy Julia; Londoño, Ernesto

Publication info: Harris, Amy Julia; Londoño, Ernesto. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unitedhealthcare-c-e-o-laid-rest-as-family-mourns/docview/3143087828/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Brian Thompson was remembered in his Minnesota hometown as a devoted father to his two sons.
Brian Thompson, the chief executive of UnitedHealthcare who was gunned down in a brazen killing in New York, was laid to rest this week at a private funeral service in his Minnesota hometown.
On Monday, while the nation was transfixed by the arrest of a 26-year-old man from Maryland who was charged with the murder, family and friends of the slain executive gathered at a Lutheran church in Maple Grove, Minn., to mourn the loss of a husband and father who ascended from modest roots in Iowa to one of the most powerful roles in the health care industry.
In the days since Mr. Thompson's death, there has been an outpouring of anger at the insurance industry for denying medical claims, with some people even seeming to cheer his killing online. The vitriol has stunned those who were closest to Mr. Thompson, leaving many of them to grieve his death in private ways.
"Brian was an incredibly loving husband, son, brother and friend," Mr. Thompson's family said in a statement. "Most importantly, Brian was a devoted father to our two sons, and we will miss him for the rest of our lives. We appreciate the overwhelming outpouring of kind words and support we have received."
Mr. Thompson, 50, grew up in a working-class family in Jewell, Iowa. His mother was a beautician, according to family friends, and his father worked at a facility to store grain, according to an obituary of his father.
He spent his childhood summers "walking beans" on farms, going row by row through the fields to kill weeds with a knife, or working manual labor at turkey and hog farms, according to two friends.
"He was just a farm kid living out in rural Iowa," said Taylor Hill, 50, a close friend of Mr. Thompson from childhood. "Everybody got along with him and he got along with everybody else. He was just a great, silly, funny, smart guy to be around all through the years that I have known him."
A diligent student, Mr. Thompson quickly rose to the top of his class of about 50 students at South Hamilton High School in Iowa, graduating as valedictorian in 1993, teachers said. He threw himself into extracurricular activities, playing on his high school basketball team and the golf team, and playing trombone in the school's marching band and orchestra, yearbook photos show. He was homecoming king his senior year, and class president.
Dick Steffen, who taught government and economics at the high school, recalled having students enter a national essay contest to vie for a free trip to Washington, D.C. Mr. Thompson's essay won. When it was time to travel to collect the award, Mr. Thompson told his classmates that he was nervous because it would be his first time flying in an airplane.
"He was an excellent student and a model person," Mr. Steffen said. "He was a super kid."
Mr. Thompson went on to attend the University of Iowa, graduating with a degree in business administration with a major in accounting in 1997, according to a university spokesman. He graduated with special honors near the top of his class.
His wife, Paulette Reveiz, also attended the University of Iowa around the same time, studying business administration and receiving a master's degree in physical therapy. They raised two sons in Maple Grove, a suburb of Minneapolis.
By many accounts, Mr. Thompson kept a low profile in his personal life. He attended his son's lacrosse games, according to colleagues, and maintained a love of golf, taking his two sons out to the course, according to friends.
But Mr. Thompson was best known for his role in the health care industry, and was devoted to a demanding job, colleagues said.
Mr. Thompson, whom colleagues knew as "BT," joined the conglomerate UnitedHealth Group in 2004, and spent about 20 years rising through the ranks.
He became chief executive of the insurance division, UnitedHealthcare, in April 2021, leading a unit that employs about 140,000 people and reported $ 281 billion in revenue last year. Under his leadership, the company's profits rose to more than $ 16 billion last year from $ 12 billion in 2021.
Mr. Thompson received total compensation of $ 10.2 million last year, with $ 1 million in base pay augmented by substantial cash and stock grants.
Colleagues said Mr. Thompson was aware of complaints about the health insurance industry, but at investor conferences and on his LinkedIn account he conveyed a desire to make health care more accessible.
"We work every day to find ways to make health care more affordable, including reducing the cost of lifesaving prescription drugs," he wrote on LinkedIn a year ago as he promoted the company's efforts to reduce the cost of medical treatments.
But during Mr. Thompson's tenure, UnitedHealthcare and its parent company were accused by lawmakers and regulators of systematically rejecting health claims.
UnitedHealth Group was the subject of a blistering report by a Senate panel this year that documented insurers' refusal to pay for the care of older people recovering from falls or strokes. Mr. Thompson's company was cited for a surge in denial rates of post-acute care for people on private Medicare Advantage plans, which increased to 22.7 percent in 2022 from 10.9 percent in 2020.
Earlier this year, Mr. Thompson and two other UnitedHealth Group executives were accused of insider trading and fraud in a lawsuit filed by the Hollywood Firefighters' Pension Fund.
The lawsuit claimed Mr. Thompson sold $ 15 million in personally held company stock while the Justice Department was starting an antitrust investigation into UnitedHealth Group, an inquiry that he and other executives had failed to disclose. When news of the investigation became public, the price of the company's stock plunged, erasing nearly $ 25 billion in shareholder value, according to the lawsuit. On Tuesday, officials from UnitedHealth Group declined to comment on the matter.
Luigi Mangione, the 26-year-old man charged with the killing, had a document conveying disgust with insurance executives when the police took him into custody on Monday, according to investigators.
Friends and colleagues said they struggled to reconcile how Mr. Thompson, a man they remembered as mild-mannered and humble, could be portrayed as a symbol of the excesses of the health insurance industry.
Steve Nelson, the president of Aetna and a former chief executive at UnitedHealthcare, said Mr. Thompson had a self-deprecating sense of humor that put others at ease. "He actually was the smartest guy in the room, without being annoying," Mr. Nelson said.
Matt Burns, a former colleague at UnitedHealthcare, described Mr. Thompson as an "incredibly talented guy and a very practical leader."
"He was a guy who had Midwestern roots," said Mr. Burns, 46, who left the company around 2018. "He was practical and relatable and had this human touch with everyone he came across that made them feel like they were the most important person in the room."
Mr. Burns said former colleagues were in a state of shock. People in the health insurance field were well aware that "there are people who often vilify and assume the worst" about the industry, he said, but no one was expecting this.
"I think people are at a loss," he said.
Mr. Hill, who grew up with Mr. Thompson but lost touch after high school, said he had recently reconnected with his friend. Despite his corporate success, Mr. Thompson remained the same funny, down-to-earth guy, Mr. Hill said.
"A lot of people are judging him, not knowing him at all," he said. "And it's not right. That's not him. It's just a sad thing of what has happened and even more sad of what people have tried to turn him into."
Reed Abelson contributed reporting. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Reed Abelson contributed reporting. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Brian Thompson (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITEDHEALTH GROUP) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Antitrust; Health care policy; Extracurricular activities; Criminal investigations; Health care industry; Murders & murder attempts; High school basketball; Insurance industry; Health insurance

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Health care industry Insurance industry Health insurance

Location: United States--US; Minnesota; Iowa

People: Abelson, Reed

Company / organization: Name: University of Iowa; NAICS: 611310; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: United Healthcare Services Inc; NAICS: 524114; Name: UnitedHealth Group Inc; NAICS: 519290, 524114, 524292

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/10/nyregion/unitedhealthcare-brian-thompson-funeral.html

Title: UnitedHealthcare C.E.O. Laid to Rest as Family Mourns Privately:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 12, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3143087828

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unitedhealthcare-c-e-o-laid-rest-as-family-mourns/docview/3143087828/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Suspect in C.E.O.'s Killing Veered Off Privileged Path: [National Desk]

Author: Kilgannon, Corey; Baker, Mike; Broadwater, Luke; Hubler, Shawn

Publication info: Kilgannon, Corey; Baker, Mike; Broadwater, Luke; Hubler, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/suspect-c-e-o-s-killing-veered-off-privileged/docview/3142750193/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The suspect, Luigi Mangione, was an Ivy League tech graduate from a prominent Maryland family who in recent months had suffered physical and psychological pain.
Luigi Mangione, the online version of him, was an Ivy League tech enthusiast who flaunted his tanned, chiseled looks in beach photos and party pictures with blue-blazered frat buddies.
He was the valedictorian of a prestigious Baltimore prep school who earned bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Pennsylvania and served as a head counselor at a pre-college program at Stanford University.
With his credentials and connections, he could have ended up one day as an entrepreneur or the chief executive of one of his family's thriving businesses. Instead, investigators suspect, he took a different path.
The police now believe that Mr. Mangione, 26, is the masked gunman who calmly took out a pistol equipped with a suppressor on a Midtown Manhattan street last week and assassinated Brian Thompson, the chief executive of UnitedHealthcare. He was arrested in Altoona, Pa., on Monday after an employee at a McDonald's recognized him and called the police. Officers said they found him with fake identification, a weapon similar to the one seen in video of the killing and a manifesto decrying the health care industry.
He was later charged with murder, along with additional counts of forgery and illegal weapons possession.
Before an extradition hearing in Pennsylvania on Tuesday, Mr. Mangione struggled with officers as they led him toward a courthouse entrance and shouted at reporters. "That's completely out of touch, and an insult to the intelligence of the American people," he said, though it was not clear what he was referring to.
His lawyer told the court that Mr. Mangione would contest his extradition to New York to face trial on the murder charge.
In the hours after his apprehension, his baffling journey from star student to murder suspect began to come into focus.
Mr. Mangione was in regular contact with friends and family until about six months ago when he suddenly and inexplicably stopped communicating with them. He had been suffering from a painful back injury, friends said, and then went dark, prompting anxious inquiries from relatives to his friends: Had anyone heard from him?
In July, one man tagged a social media account that appeared to belong to Mr. Mangione and said that he hadn't heard from him in months. "You made commitments to me for my wedding and if you can't honor them I need to know so I can plan accordingly," the man wrote in a now-deleted post.
Those six months will most likely become a focus for investigators as they try to gather more evidence about Mr. Mangione's connection to the killing, and what he was doing in the time that no one could find him.
Mr. Mangione left behind a long series of postings about self-improvement, healthy eating and technology -- and a review of the Unabomber's manifesto. Bullet casings left at the scene, scrawled with words like "deny" and "delay," left the authorities and the public wondering if the shooting was payback for health care insurers rejecting claims.
In the three-page statement that Mr. Mangione was carrying when he was arrested, he described the killing as a "symbolic takedown," according to an internal police report obtained by The New York Times. The screed described the killing as a direct challenge to the health care industry's "alleged corruption and 'power games,"' and police investigators said in their report that the suspect "likely views himself as a hero of sorts" who had decided to take action.
In the wake of the attack, social media seethed with resentment against the insurance industry, and the unidentified suspect became, to some, a folk hero.
Mr. Mangione came from a privileged upbringing, part of an influential real estate family in the Baltimore area.
His grandfather, Nick Mangione Sr., and grandmother, Mary C. Mangione, purchased the Turf Valley country club in Ellicott City, Md., in the 1970s and developed the golf course community.
In the 1980s, the family purchased Hayfields Country Club in Hunt Valley, Md. It also founded the nursing home company Lorien Health Services, and Mr. Mangione's father, Louis Mangione, became an owner. The family also owned the radio station WCBM, which airs politically conservative programs and has other real estate holdings. A cousin, Nino Mangione, is an elected member of the Maryland House of Delegates.
The family's wealth and work with charity made it well known in Baltimore. Luigi Mangione was "just the last person you would suspect," said Thomas J. Maronick Jr., a lawyer and radio host who knows several members of the Mangione family.
"It is just such a well-respected family and such a prominent family within Baltimore County," he said.
Luigi Mangione attended high school at the prestigious Gilman School in Baltimore, where he wrestled and played other sports and was the valedictorian of his graduating class in 2016. In a graduation speech, he described his class as "coming up with new ideas and challenging the world around it."
He thanked parents in attendance for sending him and his classmates to the school, which he described as "far from a small financial investment." Tuition is currently $ 37,690 per year for high schoolers.
Aaron Cranston, who became friends with Mr. Mangione during their time at Gilman, said he recalled Mr. Mangione as being particularly smart -- perhaps the smartest at the elite private school. Even before college, Mr. Mangione had already made a mobile app where users could fly a paper airplane through obstacles.
Mr. Mangione was social, friendly and never particularly political, Mr. Cranston recalled. He was ambitious and carried his long interest in computer science toward college.
"He was a big believer in the power of technology to change the world," Mr. Cranston said.
Freddie Leatherbury, 26, an accountant who lives in Catonsville, Md., graduated from Gilman with Mr. Mangione in 2016. He recalled Mr. Mangione playing soccer for the high school team and running track or cross country.
"Those are both such disciplined sports. It says a lot about who he was as a student," Mr. Leatherbury said. "He was very smart, a pretty big math guy, really well read and quite well liked to be honest. I don't have any bad memories of him. He had a very healthy social circle."
Race Saunders, 27, now a software developer who lives in California, recalled being "study buddies" with Mr. Mangione in high school. He remembered Mr. Mangione as a hard worker.
"We were all definitely leaning toward computer science," Mr. Saunders said.
In college, Mr. Mangione excelled in that field. The commencement program for the University of Pennsylvania's class of 2020 lists Mr. Mangione as a member of the school's chapter of Eta Kappa Nu, an academic honor society for students in electrical and computer engineering that was founded in 1904. The society is selective, inviting only the top quarter of the junior class and top third of the senior class in those majors for membership, according to its website.
Mr. Mangione's interest in computer games started at a young age, when he began exploring the community online, according to a now-deleted interview published on the University of Pennsylvania's campus events blog in 2018. From there, the interview said, he wanted to start creating games himself and taught himself to code in high school.
"That's why I'm a computer science major now, that's how I got into it," Mr. Mangione said in the interview. "I just really wanted to make games."
After college, Mr. Mangione worked for or had internships with several tech companies, according to his LinkedIn profile and a former employer.
Mr. Mangione's profile said that he had worked as a software engineer at TrueCar, an online marketplace based in Santa Monica, Calif. The company said in a statement that he had not been an employee since 2023.
In recent years, Mr. Mangione lived for six months in Honolulu in a "co-living" space called Surfbreak that caters to remote workers.
R.J. Martin, the founder of Surfbreak, said that when he met Mr. Mangione in 2022, he was interviewing to be among the initial 20 or so occupants paying about $ 2,000 per month to share quarters.
Mr. Martin described Mr. Mangione as a smart, accomplished and upbeat engineer. "We look for people who are looking to give back. And he fit the bill. He was an ideal member for us," Mr. Martin said.
But Mr. Mangione was suffering from painful back issues, he said. "His spine was kind of misaligned," he said. "He said his lower vertebrae were almost like a half-inch off, and I think it pinched a nerve."
Mr. Martin said, he and others in the community came to understand that the pain was no small matter to a young man yearning for a normal lifestyle. "He knew that dating and being physically intimate with his back condition wasn't possible," Mr. Martin said.
Mr. Mangione left the co-living space after six months to return to the East Coast, where he told Mr. Martin he was planning to see his doctor. He returned to Honolulu afterward and rented an apartment in the same neighborhood.
Mr. Martin said that Mr. Mangione left Hawaii in the summer of 2023, presumably for an operation on his back. In August of that year, Mr. Martin said, he checked in via text to see how his friend was doing, "and he sent me back pictures of his back surgery."
The pictures -- scans of Mr. Mangione's spine -- were so jarring that Mr. Martin texted back asking how Mr. Mangione was feeling. "So, long story," Mr. Mangione replied, according to Mr. Martin. "Will fill ya in in person. Back in Hawaii as soon as I can, I have to figure out some spine stuff here first."
He said Mr. Mangione did, in fact, report in late 2023 that he had gone back to Hawaii, visiting Maui, the Big Island and Oahu in November and December before returning to Baltimore to see his family. While on Oahu, Mr. Mangione received a citation for trespassing for having failed to observe a sign at the Nu'uanu Pali Lookout, a spot with a breathtaking view of the island. He was fined $ 100.
Mr. Martin said he made plans to connect with Mr. Mangione in February. When March came and went, Mr. Martin texted: "Miss you brother. Hope you are mostly recovered. Let's catch up soon."
"Yea dude let's catch up on the phone," Mr. Mangione replied on April 15, according to Mr. Martin.
But they did not connect. (It appears that Mr. Mangione spent at least part of that spring in Japan, according to emails he exchanged with a writer in Britain.) On May 20, Mr. Martin thought of his friend again and texted: "Yo! You awake?"
Mr. Mangione did not answer, he said. A month later, on June 23, he texted him again. "Where in the world are you?"
There was no response.
Through a series of posts, Mr. Mangione's trail on the internet hinted at pain both physical and philosophical.
In January, Mr. Mangione left a review of a book containing the rambling manifesto of Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber, on GoodReads, a social media site for bookworms.
"It's easy to quickly and thoughtless write this off as the manifesto of a lunatic, in order to avoid facing some of the uncomfortable problems it identifies," Mr. Mangione wrote of the document. "But it's simply impossible to ignore how prescient many of his predictions about modern society turned out."
One of Mr. Mangione's favorite quotes, listed on GoodReads, was, "It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society," from Jiddu Krishnamurti, the religious philosopher and teacher.
The GoodReads page also included self-help books about health and the human body, including, "Crooked: Outwitting the Back Pain Industry and Getting on the Road to Recovery."
A social media account that appeared to belong to Mr. Mangione featured an X-ray image of a spine reinforced with surgical implants. The X-ray showed a spinal fusion, a procedure that uses screws and rods to fuse two levels of the spine to address a misalignment that can cause serious pain, according to Dr. Hasit Mehta, a professor at New York Medical College.
Mr. Cranston, the school friend, said that he was forwarded a message this year from Mr. Mangione's family saying that the family had not heard from him in several months after his surgery. His mother filed a missing-person report on Nov. 18, according to a senior law enforcement official. Relatives were hoping friends might know of his whereabouts.
Few, if any, did until his arrest on Monday morning.
Mr. Saunders, the high school friend, was shocked by the news but was skeptical that his classmate had suffered a psychological break.
"I would be surprised if it was some kind of mental breakdown," he said.
For now, investigators will be looking for any additional clues that might link Mr. Mangione to the shooting. The statement officers recovered during his arrest appears to provide some insight.
The entire 262-word handwritten document notes that as UnitedHealthcare's market capitalization has grown, American life expectancy has not.
"To save you a lengthy investigation, I state plainly that I wasn't working with anyone," the writer wrote, according to law enforcement officials. The note condemned companies that "continue to abuse our country for immense profit because the American public has allowed them to get away with it."
It added: "Frankly these parasites simply had it coming."
Reporting was contributed by Mike Isaac, Emma Goldberg, Maria Cramer, Jesus Jiménez, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Campbell Robertson, Callie Holtermann, Chelsia Rose Marcius, William K. Rashbaum, JoAnna Daemmrich, Jack Truesdale, Ryan Mac, Andy Newman, Brian Conway, Jan Ransom, Jacey Fortin, Shayla Colon, Heather Knight and Ashley Southall. Research was contributed by Susan C. Beachy, Kirsten Noyes and Kitty Bennett.
Reporting was contributed by Mike Isaac, Emma Goldberg, Maria Cramer, Jesus Jiménez, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Campbell Robertson, Callie Holtermann, Chelsia Rose Marcius, William K. Rashbaum, JoAnna Daemmrich, Jack Truesdale, Ryan Mac, Andy Newman, Brian Conway, Jan Ransom, Jacey Fortin, Shayla Colon, Heather Knight and Ashley Southall. Research was contributed by Susan C. Beachy, Kirsten Noyes and Kitty Bennett.
Photograph Luigi Mangione heading to his extradition hearing in Hollidaysburg, Pa., on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN/GETTY IMAGES) (A1); Bullet casings with words like "deny" and "delay" written on them were left at the scene of the shooting of a health care executive in Manhattan. Left, the suspect, Luigi Mangione, being taken to the courthouse in Altoona, Pa., to be arraigned on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; RACHEL WISNIEWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) This article appeared in print on page A1, A19.

Subject: Social networks; Criminal investigations; Health care industry; Murders & murder attempts; Extradition; Criminals

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Health care industry

Location: Baltimore Maryland; New York; United States--US; Maryland

People: Mangione, Luigi; Thompson, Brian

Company / organization: Name: University of Pennsylvania; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/09/nyregion/united-healthcare-ceo-shooting-luigi-mangione.html

Title: Suspect in C.E.O.'s Killing Veered Off Privileged Path:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 11, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3142750193

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/suspect-c-e-o-s-killing-veered-off-privileged/docview/3142750193/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Suspect in CEO Killing Withdrew From a Life of Privilege and Promise

Author: Kilgannon, Corey; Baker, Mike; Broadwater, Luke; Hubler, Shawn

Publication info: Kilgannon, Corey; Baker, Mike; Broadwater, Luke; Hubler, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/suspect-ceo-killing-withdrew-life-privilege/docview/3142814203/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

Luigi Mangione, the online version of him, was an Ivy League tech enthusiast who flaunted his tanned, chiseled looks in beach photos and party pictures with blue-blazered frat buddies.
He was the valedictorian of a prestigious Baltimore prep school who earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees at the University of Pennsylvania and served as a head counselor at a pre-college program at Stanford University in California.
With his credentials and connections, he could have ended up one day as an entrepreneur or the CEO of one of his family’s thriving businesses. Instead, investigators suspect, he took a different path.
Police believe that Mangione, 26, is the masked shooter who calmly took out a pistol equipped with a suppressor on a midtown Manhattan sidewalk last week and assassinated UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson. Mangione was arrested in Altoona, Pennsylvania, on Monday after an employee at a McDonald’s recognized him and called police. Officers said they found him with fake identification, a weapon similar to the one seen in video of the killing and a manifesto decrying the health care industry.
He was later charged with murder, along with additional counts of forgery and illegal weapons possession.
Before an extradition hearing in Pennsylvania on Tuesday, Mangione struggled with officers as they led him toward a courthouse entrance and shouted at reporters. “That’s completely out of touch, and an insult to the intelligence of the American people,” he said, though it was not clear what he was referring to.
His lawyer told the court that Mangione would contest his extradition to New York to face trial on the murder charge.
In the hours after his apprehension, his baffling journey from star student to murder suspect began to come into focus.
Mangione was in regular contact with friends and family until about six months ago when he suddenly and inexplicably stopped communicating with them. He had been suffering from a painful back injury, friends said, and then went dark, prompting anxious inquiries from relatives to his friends: Had anyone heard from him?
In July, one man tagged a social media account that appeared to belong to Mangione and said that he hadn’t heard from him in months. “You made commitments to me for my wedding and if you can’t honor them I need to know so I can plan accordingly,” the man wrote in a now-deleted post.
Those six months will most likely become a focus for investigators as they try to gather more evidence about Mangione’s connection to the killing, and what he was doing in the time that no one could find him.
Mangione left behind postings about self-improvement, healthy eating and technology — and a review of the Unabomber’s manifesto.
Bullet casings left at the scene, which had words such as “deny” and “delay” written on them, left authorities and the public wondering if the shooting was payback for health care insurers rejecting claims.
In the three-page statement that Mangione was carrying when he was arrested, he described the killing as a “symbolic takedown,” according to an internal police report obtained by The New York Times. The screed described the killing as a direct challenge to the health care industry’s “alleged corruption and ‘power games,’” and police investigators said in their report that the suspect “likely views himself as a hero of sorts” who had decided to take action.
In the wake of the attack, social media seethed with resentment against the insurance industry, and the unidentified suspect became, to some, a folk hero.
Mangione came from a privileged upbringing, part of an influential real estate family in the Baltimore area.
His grandfather, Nick Mangione Sr., and grandmother, Mary C. Mangione, purchased the Turf Valley country club in Ellicott City, Maryland, in the 1970s and developed the golf course community.
In the 1980s, the family purchased Hayfields Country Club in Hunt Valley, Maryland. It also founded the nursing home company Lorien Health Services, and Mangione’s father, Louis Mangione, became an owner. The family also owned radio station WCBM, which airs politically conservative programs and has other real estate holdings. A cousin, Nino Mangione, is an elected member of the Maryland House of Delegates.
The family’s wealth and work with charity made it well known in Baltimore. Luigi Mangione was “just the last person you would suspect,” said Thomas J. Maronick Jr., a lawyer and radio host who knows several members of the Mangione family.
“It is just such a well-respected family and such a prominent family within Baltimore County,” he said.
Luigi Mangione attended high school at the prestigious Gilman School in Baltimore, where he wrestled and played other sports and was the valedictorian of his graduating class in 2016. In a graduation speech, he described his class as “coming up with new ideas and challenging the world around it.”
He thanked parents in attendance for sending him and his classmates to the school, which he described as “far from a small financial investment.” Tuition is currently $37,690 per year for high schoolers.
Aaron Cranston, who became friends with Mangione during their time at Gilman, said he recalled Mangione as being particularly smart — perhaps the smartest at the elite private school. Even before college, Mangione had already made a mobile app where users could fly a paper airplane through obstacles.
Mangione was social, friendly and never particularly political, Cranston recalled. He was ambitious and carried his long interest in computer science toward college.
“He was a big believer in the power of technology to change the world,” Cranston said.
Freddie Leatherbury, 26, an accountant who lives in Catonsville, Maryland, graduated from Gilman with Mangione in 2016. He recalled Mangione playing soccer for the high school team and running track or cross-country.
“Those are both such disciplined sports. It says a lot about who he was as a student,” Leatherbury said. “He was very smart, a pretty big math guy, really well read and quite well liked, to be honest. I don’t have any bad memories of him. He had a very healthy social circle.”
Race Saunders, 27, now a software developer who lives in California, recalled being “study buddies” with Mangione in high school. He remembered Mangione as a hard worker.
“We were all definitely leaning toward computer science,” Saunders said.
In college, Mangione excelled in that field. The commencement program for the University of Pennsylvania’s class of 2020 lists Mangione as a member of the school’s chapter of Eta Kappa Nu, an academic honor society for students in electrical and computer engineering. The society is selective, inviting only the top quarter of the junior class and top third of the senior class in those majors for membership, according to its website.
Mangione’s interest in computer games started at a young age, when he began exploring the community online, according to a now-deleted interview published on the University of Pennsylvania’s campus events blog in 2018. From there, the interview said, he wanted to start creating games himself and taught himself to code in high school.
“That’s why I’m a computer science major now, that’s how I got into it,” Mangione said in the interview. “I just really wanted to make games.”
After college, Mangione worked for, or had internships with, several tech companies, according to his LinkedIn profile and a former employer.
Mangione’s profile said he had worked as a software engineer at TrueCar, an online marketplace based in Santa Monica, California. The company said in a statement that he had not been an employee since 2023.
In recent years, Mangione lived for six months in Honolulu in a “co-living” space called Surfbreak that caters to remote workers.
R.J. Martin, founder of Surfbreak, said that when he met Mangione in 2022, he was interviewing to be among the initial 20 or so occupants paying about $2,000 per month to share quarters.
Martin described Mangione as a smart, accomplished and upbeat engineer. “We look for people who are looking to give back. And he fit the bill. He was an ideal member for us,” Martin said.
But Mangione was suffering from painful back issues, he said. “His spine was kind of misaligned,” he said. “He said his lower vertebrae were almost like a half-inch off, and I think it pinched a nerve.”
Martin said he and others in the community came to understand that the pain was no small matter to a young man yearning for a normal lifestyle. “He knew that dating and being physically intimate with his back condition wasn’t possible,” Martin said.
Mangione left the co-living space after six months to return to the East Coast, where he told Martin he was planning to see his doctor. He returned to Honolulu afterward and rented an apartment in the same neighborhood.
Martin said that Mangione left Hawaii in the summer of 2023, presumably for an operation on his back. In August of that year, Martin said, he checked in via text to see how his friend was doing, “and he sent me back pictures of his back surgery.”
The pictures — scans of Mangione’s spine — were so jarring that Martin texted back asking how Mangione was feeling. “So, long story,” Mangione replied, according to Martin. “Will fill ya in in person. Back in Hawaii as soon as I can, I have to figure out some spine stuff here first.”
He said Mangione did, in fact, report in late 2023 that he had gone back to Hawaii, visiting Maui, the Big Island and Oahu in November and December before returning to Baltimore to see his family. While on Oahu, Mangione received a citation for trespassing for having failed to observe a sign at the Nu’uanu Pali Lookout, a spot with a breathtaking view of the island. He was fined $100.
Martin said he made plans to connect with Mangione in February. When March came and went, Martin texted: “Miss you brother. Hope you are mostly recovered. Let’s catch up soon.”
“Yea dude let’s catch up on the phone,” Mangione replied on April 15, according to Martin.
But they did not connect. (It appears that Mangione spent at least part of that spring in Japan, according to emails he exchanged with a writer in Britain.) On May 20, Martin thought of his friend again and texted: “Yo! You awake?”
Mangione did not answer, he said. A month later, on June 23, he texted him again. “Where in the world are you?”
There was no response.
Through a series of posts, Mangione’s trail on the internet hinted at pain both physical and philosophical.
In January, Mangione left a review of a book containing the manifesto of Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber, on Goodreads, a social media site for bookworms.
“It’s easy to quickly and thoughtless write this off as the manifesto of a lunatic, in order to avoid facing some of the uncomfortable problems it identifies,” Mangione wrote of the document. “But it’s simply impossible to ignore how prescient many of his predictions about modern society turned out.”
One of Mangione’s favorite quotes, listed on Goodreads, was “It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society,” from Jiddu Krishnamurti, a religious philosopher and teacher.
The Goodreads page also included self-help books about health and the human body, including “Crooked: Outwitting the Back Pain Industry and Getting on the Road to Recovery.”
A social media account that appeared to belong to Mangione featured an X-ray image of a spine reinforced with surgical implants. The X-ray showed a spinal fusion, a procedure that uses screws and rods to fuse two levels of the spine to address a misalignment that can cause serious pain, according to Hasit Mehta, a professor at New York Medical College.
Cranston, the school friend, said he was forwarded a message this year from Mangione’s family saying the family had not heard from him in several months after his surgery. His mother filed a missing-person report on Nov. 18, according to a senior law enforcement official. Relatives were hoping friends might know of his whereabouts.
Few, if any, did until his arrest Monday morning.
Saunders, the high school friend, was shocked by the news, but was skeptical that his classmate had suffered a psychological break.
“I would be surprised if it was some kind of mental breakdown,” he said.
For now, investigators will be looking for any additional clues that might link Mangione to the shooting. The statement officers recovered during his arrest appears to provide some insight.
The 262-word handwritten document notes that as UnitedHealthcare’s market capitalization has grown, American life expectancy has not.
“To save you a lengthy investigation, I state plainly that I wasn’t working with anyone,” the writer wrote, according to law enforcement officials. The note condemned companies that “continue to abuse our country for immense profit because the American public has allowed them to get away with it.”
It added: “Frankly these parasites simply had it coming.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Computer science; Social networks; Criminal investigations; Health care industry; Murders & murder attempts; Secondary schools; Extradition; Interviews

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Health care industry

Location: Baltimore Maryland; New York; United States--US; Maryland; Pennsylvania; California

People: Mangione, Luigi

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: University of Pennsylvania; NAICS: 611310; Name: United Healthcare Services Inc; NAICS: 524114

Identifier / keyword: Unitedhealth Group Inc; Kilgannon, Corey; Consumer Reviews; Stanford University; Mississippi; Fines (Penalties); Great Britain; Beaches; United States; Mobile Applications; Saunders Trades And Technical High School (Yonkers, Ny); Maui (Hawaii); Hawaii (The Big Island); Friendship; Education (Secondary); Spine (Body Part); Linkedin Corporation; Back (Human Body Part); Extraterrestrial Life; Two Thousand Twenty Three; California; Photography; East Coast (Us); Fugitives; E Learning; Masters Golf Tournament; Police; Baltimore County (Md); Mangione, Luigi; Baltimore (Md); Social Media; Santa Monica (Calif); Health Insurance And Managed Care; Thompson, Brian (1974 2024); Truecar Inc; New York Medical College; Nursing Homes; Oahu (Hawaii); Pennsylvania; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Forgery; Computers And The Internet; Trespassing; E Commerce; State Legislatures; Ellicott City (Md); Law And Legislation; Writing And Wri ters; Accidents And Safety; Corruption (Institutional); X Rays; Text Messaging; Roommates; Education (K 12); Catonsville (Md); Country Clubs; Ivy League; Japan; Insurance; Private And Sectarian Schools; Kaczynski, Theodore J; Labor And Jobs; Philosophy; Accounting And Accountants; Hawaii; Missing Persons; Interscholastic Athletics; Honolulu (Hawaii); Assassinations And Attempted Assassinations; Elections, State Legislature; Running; University Of Pennsylvania; Colleges And Universities; Goodreads Inc; Sports Injuries; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; New York Times; Maryland; Cohousing Communities; Memory

Title: Suspect in CEO Killing Withdrew From a Life of Privilege and Promise

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 10, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3142814203

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/suspect-ceo-killing-withdrew-life-privilege/docview/3142814203/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

No Longer Dependent On Whom They Know: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Pogrebin, Robin

Publication info: Pogrebin, Robin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/no-longer-dependent-on-whom-they-know/docview/3142421402/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Allison Berg has established a foundation to elevate the careers of six emerging visual arts curators, educators and administrators each year.
In the fall of 2020, the arts patron Allison Berg listened to the book "From Generosity to Justice: A New Gospel of Wealth" by the Ford Foundation president Darren Walker. She had what she called a lightbulb moment, "hearing Darren speak to the difference between band-aiding a problem and actually taking action to influence systemic change toward equity and justice."
Berg, who serves on the board of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and collects art by the likes of Louise Bourgeois and Rashid Johnson, had been seeking to give her philanthropy greater focus and to make a more meaningful impact. So, with her husband, Larry, a managing owner of the Los Angeles Football Club and private equity investor, she established the A&L Berg Foundation with a fellowship to help emerging visual arts curators, educators and administrators from underrepresented groups learn to navigate the insular, often elitist, largely white world of visual arts.
"I've spoken with these young people and that is how a lot of them see it: as a vast space of whiteness, where they have no one to speak with about their concerns and their experiences," Berg said in an interview. "They don't feel like safe spaces."
The annual fellowship -- funded in perpetuity -- gives six arts professionals a $ 10,000 grant each, along with mentoring and workshops culminating in an all-expenses-paid visit to a major arts event, like the Venice Biennale, where the first group attended the V.I.P. preview earlier this year.
In addition, the fellows are given a year of support from Verge, a recruiting and human resources firm, which offers professional guidance, like improving LinkedIn accounts and résumés.
"It isn't focused on discussing the art or teaching anybody how to be a curator," Berg said of the fellowship. "It is about the relationships and the behind-the-scenes that nobody talks about."
Arts institutions and foundations -- such as LACMA, Ford and Mellon -- have led the way with efforts to diversify the ranks of museum curators, boards, directors, acquisitions and exhibitions.
Less typical is to see collectors take on that kind of project in the mold of, say, an Agnes Gund, who in 2017 established a criminal justice fund, or an Alice Walton, whose foundation joined an $ 11 million initiative announced in 2023 to increase racial equity within museum leadership positions.
"I don't know of other individuals doing what she's doing," said Elizabeth W. Easton, the director and co-founder of the Center for Curatorial Leadership in New York, adding that Berg "prepared thoroughly for launching her new program."
Berg's foundation also established an Artist Social Impact Grant to honor artists trying to improve their communities; the first one awarded $ 100,000 to the artist Lauren Halsey last fall for her community center Summaeverythang, which she is building in South Central Los Angeles.
"This grant is a game changer," Halsey said. "It provides crucial support for actually building the center, as well as resources that will help guarantee Summaeverythang's long term success in South Central L.A."
The fellows program specifically aims to help professionals who are already in the field, to give them the kind of connections that have often been unavailable to those who can't afford to enter the pipeline that traditionally starts with low-paid museum internships and is often lubricated by who you know.
"She's providing some of those enhanced skill sets that are not formally offered and inevitably help you do career advancement," said César García-Alvarez, the executive and artistic director of the Mistake Room, a Los Angeles nonprofit arts organization, who served as the Berg Foundation's first guest program director, a paid position.
García-Alvarez said that coming from a working class immigrant household, one of the biggest hurdles to his own career was "access to cultural capital."
"I would get nervous when I was invited to gallery dinners -- what do you wear? People would ask, 'Are you going to Venice?' They don't take into consideration that there are curators who can't afford to do that or are undocumented and can't travel," he said. "Nobody seemed to be having the conversations around class. This is a very uncomfortable conversation to have in our field."
Though both Berg and her executive director, Carolyn Ramo, are white women, Berg has made a point of bringing in mentors of color. And the fellows said Berg's program is an important model for other people of means, regardless of their race or ethnicity.
"We need to build coalitions and forge alliances," said Elena Ketelsen González, a fellow who serves as an assistant curator at MoMA PS1 in Queens. "This foundation is a strong example of that."
In preparing to start her foundation, Berg said she sought guidance from numerous leaders in the field, namely Thelma Golden, the director and chief curator of the Studio Museum in Harlem; Walker of the Ford Foundation; and the artist Rashid Johnson.
The foundation's advisers include several art world heavyweights including Sandra Jackson-Dumont, the director and chief executive of the Lucas Museum of Narrative Art; Christine Y. Kim, the curator-at-large of North American Art at Tate Modern and Franklin Sirmans, the director of the Pérez Art Museum Miami.
In an interview, Sirmans said he was happy "to be a part of something that is trying to not only support efforts in the present but also to have a long-term impact on the field."
For the fellows, attending the Venice Biennale was particularly meaningful, they said. They were enlisted to help write wall and catalog text (for which they were compensated) and got to meet with Adriano Pedrosa, the first Latin American to be named curator at Venice, the world's longest-running contemporary art exhibition.
"For someone from the borderlands to be brought to the Venice Biennale -- it was a dream I had never even considered," said Tracy Fenix, a fellow who works for the Public Art Division of the City of Los Angeles. "It opens up portals of potential for other brown, native, Latinx, diasporic people."
The program also prompted subsequent collaborations. Fenix, for example, recently curated a program at the Clemente Center in New York, where another fellow, Sofía Reeser del Rio, is a curator and associate director of programs. The program at Clemente featured work by Xavier Robles Armas, a fellow who is the events and arts manager at the Latinx Project at New York University, which promotes Latino art, culture and scholarship in the United States.
"We were all there together celebrating each other," Ketelsen González said, adding that the fellowship helped them "realize we are not each other's competitors. We can raise each other up, seek advice, speak each other's names."
At LACMA, Berg is chairwoman of the museum's Contemporary Acquisitions group. She also serves on the leadership councils of several institutions, including the Studio Museum in Harlem, the Dia Art Foundation and the Pérez.
In 2021, she helped produce a documentary about the art world, "The Art of Making It."
Michael Govan, LACMA's director, has encouraged Berg's efforts. "When we're talking about diversifying the field more quickly and getting things to be more exciting sooner, it helps to accelerate experience and networking," he said. "You can't do enough nurturing of young early career professionals. In our field it tends to take a long time."
Raised in Philadelphia -- her father worked in the music industry -- Berg became interested in Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art because that's what she mostly saw on school field trips to museums.
She earned her bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Rochester and a law degree from the University of Miami School of Law. After briefly practicing union-side labor law and running an internship program for the Fulfillment Fund, a nonprofit organization in Los Angeles, Berg transitioned to writing about arts and culture for various publications.
These days, she is focused on the foundation. The fellowship's next guest program director is Diane Lima, who was a curator of last year's São Paulo Biennial, which the next crop of fellows will visit next year. And she continues to educate herself about how best to help make U.S. institutions more inclusive and equitable.
"I want to see diversity in our museums and not-for-profit art spaces," Berg said. "I want to see more platforms for more artists' narratives. I want to see our museums truly represent the audiences that are coming in. The people who work in these spaces do not look like that enough yet.
"The more individuals we empower from different backgrounds," she added, "the more platforms we give to artists to be seen and heard."
Photograph Allison Berg, top, started a foundation to help emerging professionals navigate the connection-dependent world of visual arts. Above, from left, the first fellows: Sofía Reeser del Rio, Juan Silverio, Elena Ketelsen González, Xavier Robles Armas, Tracy Fenix and William Hernández Luege, who attended the Venice Biennale. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN RODRIGUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES ; MAX CISOTTI, VIA A&L BERG FOUNDATION) (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Artists; Careers; Art galleries & museums; Leadership; Curators; Professionals; Visual arts; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers Art galleries & museums Leadership Professionals

Location: New York; United States--US; Los Angeles California

People: Berg, Allison

Company / organization: Name: Los Angeles County Museum of Art; NAICS: 712110; Name: Ford Foundation; NAICS: 813211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/09/arts/design/allison-berg-foundation.html

Title: No Longer Dependent On Whom They Know:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 10, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3142421402

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/no-longer-dependent-on-whom-they-know/docview/3142421402/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What Trump's Picks Have Said About Climate Change: [National Desk]

Author: Friedman, Lisa

Publication info: Friedman, Lisa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-trumps-picks-have-said-about-climate-change/docview/3141210361/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: President-elect Donald Trump's chief advisers would include one person who calls global warming an "existential" threat and some who don't accept it as a problem at all.
President-elect Donald J. Trump's cabinet choices and key advisers run the gamut from people who acknowledge the threat of climate change to those who deny the scientific consensus that emissions from the burning of fossil fuels are dangerously heating the planet.
But virtually all support Mr. Trump's plan to extract more oil and gas and erase environmental rules, which would exacerbate global warming. And some who once acknowledged the problem now downplay the danger.
Mr. Trump's team is shaping up to be the polar opposite of President Biden's on environmental matters. Mr. Biden applied what he called a "whole of government approach" to climate change, directing each of his cabinet secretaries to prioritize the issue.
Mr. Trump, who mocks climate change, wants agencies across the federal government to make it easier and more profitable for oil and gas companies.
Here's a sampling of how those picked for roles in Trump's administration view climate change and energy.
Elon Musk, Department of Government Efficiency
Mr. Trump has said Mr. Musk will help lead a new panel to radically restructure the government by cutting staff and budgets. Environmental agencies are expected to be a chief target.
What he has said:
We shouldn't be complacent about changing the chemical constituency of our atmosphere & oceans, but climate change definitely will not end the world as we know it! If people keep pushing hard, humanity will solve the sustainable energy problem in time. -- Sept. 10, 2023, post on X
What else to know:
Mr. Musk has consistently acknowledged climate change and supported clean energy. But he also has made conflicting statements, saying both "we should bias toward sustainable energy" and "we don't have to rush" to renewables. The International Energy Agency disagrees, and says that nations must quickly cut their emissions and transition away from fossil fuels to meet climate goals.
Vivek Ramaswamy, Department of Government Efficiency
Mr. Ramaswamy, a onetime Republican presidential hopeful, will oversee along with Mr. Musk the paring down of government spending.
What he has said:
ABC News: "Do you believe in climate change?"
Mr. Ramaswamy: "Well, I think that with due respect, I've talked about this in other forums, 'Do you believe in climate change?' is not really a meaningful question, because climate change has existed as long as the Earth has existed. Do I believe it is a fact that global surface temperatures are rising over the course of the last century and the last half century? Yes, I think that that is an established trend."
ABC News: "As president, would you do anything to try to buck that trend?"
Mr. Ramaswamy: "No is the answer." -- ABC News interview, September 2023
What else to know:
Mr. Ramaswamy has accused climate activists who want the country to move away from fossil fuels of trying to "shackle" America to let China "catch up to the United States economically."
Marco Rubio, State Department
As secretary of state, Mr. Rubio would represent the United States in international climate negotiations, which are designed to persuade countries to cut emissions.
What he has said:
"The climate has always been changing, and no matter what, we have to mitigate against it. No matter how well you think you know the causation." -- July 2021 New York Times interview
What else to know:
When he was seeking his Senate seat in 2010, Mr. Rubio denied climate change. Around 2018, Mr. Rubio took the position that global warming was real, without acknowledging that fossil fuels are the top driver, and said problems like sea level rise require that places like his home state of Florida adapt. He has rejected policies that would reduce fossil fuel use in the United States and has said there is nothing the United States could do to convince China, the world's top greenhouse gas polluter, to emit less.
Pete Hegseth, Defense Department
Under the Biden administration, the Pentagon elevated climate as a national security issue and has aimed to reduce the military's energy use. The agency manages military facilities and other installations that are vulnerable to rising seas and other effects of climate change.
What he has said:
"Whether it's hot or cold, the enemy is here, as far as liberals are concerned. And it's all about control for them. That's why climate change is the perfect enemy. They get to control your life to deal with it, no matter what's happening." -- "Fox & Friends," 2019
What else to know:
Mr. Hegseth does not appear to have taken a firm position on the science of climate change, but has repeatedly framed the issue as a political ploy.
Elise Stefanik, U.N. Ambassador
The ambassador helps steer the American position on a multitude of climate resolutions at the United Nations, and would potentially play a role in deciding whether the United States continues to participate in global climate discussions.
What she has said:
"Withdrawing from the Paris Agreement is misguided, and harms the ongoing effort to fight climate change while also isolating us from our allies." -- 2017 statement
"Americans have had enough of Joe Biden and far-left Democrats' anti-American energy policies." -- March 20, 2024, statement
What else to know:
Early in Ms. Stefanik's tenure in the House representing upstate New York, she supported some environmental initiatives, including the 2015 Paris Agreement, the international climate accord that Mr. Trump exited and Mr. Biden rejoined. She voted in favor of halting oil drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and protecting funding for the Environmental Protection Agency. Her political profile shifted as she entered Mr. Trump's orbit, and Ms. Stefanik's recent comments and voting record indicate she now supports fossil fuel expansion.
Lee Zeldin, Environmental Protection Agency
The Biden administration has used the E.P.A. to advance its climate agenda, limiting emissions from automobiles, power plants and oil wells. Mr. Zeldin is likely to scrap those regulations.
What he has said:
"I think that there is more of an awareness and a willingness to recognize that climate change is real, and Congress is more and more open-minded toward identifying those solutions." -- 2016 interview in "Years of Living Dangerously," a documentary television series
"There are regulations that the left wing of this country have been advocating through regulatory power that ends up causing businesses to go in the wrong direction." -- Nov. 11, 2024, Fox News interview
What else to know:
Mr. Zeldin is a former House member from New York whose positions on climate appear to have shifted. Mr. Zeldin often noted that his Long Island district was surrounded by water and backed measures to make coastal areas more resilient. When he unsuccessfully ran for governor in 2022, though, he called for reversing New York's ban on hydraulic fracking. He has promised as E.P.A. chief to support Mr. Trump's "energy dominance" agenda.
Doug Burgum, Interior Department
The secretary of the interior will oversee where, whether and how quickly companies can drill for oil and gas on federal lands and waters, and decide whether renewable energy projects can get access to those same public spaces.
What he has said:
CNN: "A new analysis that was released this week by a global group of scientists found extreme heat waves across three continents this month were made significantly more likely by the human-caused climate crisis. Do you agree humans are to blame for what's happening?"
Burgum: "Well, I know the climate is changing, we know that. And I'll tell you in North Dakota, we're the only state that set a goal of being carbon neutral by 2030. But we're not doing it with a bunch of regulations. We said we can get there through no new mandates, no new regulations, all through innovation. And that's happening in North Dakota right now. And again, I think if people want to have a discussion, if they think CO2's the cause, then let's get serious about what we can to reduce that. Again, there's all kinds of things we can do that are more effective than the crazy plans that are in place now." -- CNN interview, July 2023
What else to know:
As governor of North Dakota, home to the oil and gas-rich Bakken Formation, Mr. Burgum has close ties to industry leaders including Harold G. Hamm, the billionaire founder and chairman of Continental Resources. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Burgum served as an unofficial liaison between Mr. Trump and oil and gas executives.
Chris Wright, Energy Department
The Energy Department oversees energy research, determines gas export approvals and manages the nation's nuclear stockpile. During the Biden administration, it has advanced clean energy research, development and deployment.
What he has said:
"We have seen no increase in the frequency or intensity of hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts or floods despite endless fear-mongering of the media, politicians and activists." -- 2023 LinkedIn video
What else to know:
As the chief executive of a fracking services company, Mr. Wright has made a fortune from gas and oil. He has described fossil fuels as a solution to poverty. His nomination was supported by Mr. Hamm, the oil billionaire.
Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Health and Human Services Department
Under Mr. Biden, H.H.S. created the Office of Climate Change and Health Equity, focusing on the impacts of climate change on human health.
What he has said:
"I believe that climate change is existential." -- April 2024 New York Times interview
What else to know:
Mr. Kennedy acknowledges global warming but said that "this crisis is being used as a pretext for clamping down totalitarian controls." He said in an interview that the environmental movement should focus on issues like reducing toxic chemicals, protecting biodiversity and supporting regenerative farming, which he said were "much more appealing to the public." In announcing Mr. Kennedy would join the administration, Mr. Trump told him "you can't touch our liquid gold," referring to oil.
Sean Duffy, Transportation Department
The Transportation Department under Mr. Biden has sought ways to reduce emissions from transportation, the segment of the American economy that is the largest contributor of greenhouse gases.
What he has said:
"If you say the climate's changing, is it coming from CO2 or is it coming from the sun? Where is -- why is the climate changing? And then you would say, let's have a rigorous debate about what is causing it, or what are all the factors that bring us to climate change? And when you have the left that says 'we're gonna shut down alternative science or science that challenges our narrative,' I think it makes people go 'maybe there is a different set of priorities here as opposed to climate change, maybe it actually is an agenda of control."' -- Nov. 11, 2024, Fox Business Live
What else to know:
Mr. Duffy is a former House member from Wisconsin and more recently a Fox Business co-host. He once criticized former President Barack Obama for discussing climate change in the winter.
Scott Bessent, Treasury Department
The Treasury Department is responsible for regulations guiding the $ 390 billion in subsidies and tax breaks for clean energy that have been provided under the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act.
What he has said:
The Inflation Reduction Act is "the doomsday machine for the deficit." Financial Times, Oct. 13, 2024
What else to know:
Mr. Bessent, a hedge fund billionaire, has said he believes boosting fossil fuel production, along with cutting taxes and regulations, would increase wages for working people. "We're also going to have a massive deregulatory program, and we're going to have energy dominance, so cheap energy, deregulation and a low tax rate -- what's better than that?" he told Fox Business in October.
Brooke Rollins, Agriculture Department
Among its many responsibilities, the Department of Agriculture develops scientific assessments of how climate change affects crops and livestock, and also manages programs to help address the impacts of global warming.
What she's said:
"There's been no warming in over 17 years. So all of this discussion about shutting down certain parts of our energy industry is nothing short of a disaster for the economy." -- 2014 Texas Public Policy Foundation event
What else to know:
Ms. Rollins leads the America First Policy Institute, which was formed by former officials from the first Trump administration and promotes oil and gas development. She was also president and chief executive of the Texas Public Policy Foundation, an influential conservative group funded by oil and gas companies and Republican donors that has attacked climate policies.
Photograph This article appeared in print on page A12.

Subject: Energy research; Fossil fuels; Emissions; Clean technology; Hydraulic fracturing; Global warming; Political campaigns; Environmental protection; Paris Agreement; Presidential elections; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change

Location: North Dakota; New York; United States--US; China

People: Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: CNN; NAICS: 516210; Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA; NAICS: 924110; Name: Department of Defense; NAICS: 928110; Name: ABC Inc; NAICS: 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/04/climate/trump-cabinet-stefanik-zeldin-wright.html

Title: What Trump's Picks Have Said About Climate Change:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 6, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3141210361

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-trumps-picks-have-said-about-climate-change/docview/3141210361/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

D.E.A. Pick Is Rooted in Local Law Enforcement: [National Desk]

Author: Feuer, Alan

Publication info: Feuer, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/d-e-pick-is-rooted-local-law-enforcement/docview/3134589388/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sheriff Chad Chronister, who has spent decades in Hillsborough County, Fla., is likely to face an array of challenges should he be confirmed as the agency's administrator.
In choosing Sheriff Chad Chronister of Hillsborough County, Fla., to run the Drug Enforcement Administration, President-elect Donald J. Trump opted for someone with a substantial record in local law enforcement but virtually no experience with the complex international investigations for which the agency is known.
Sheriff Chronister, 56, has worked in the sheriff's office, which serves the Tampa area, for more than 30 years, rising over the decades from patrol deputy to narcotics detective to the department's top job, which he has been elected to three times since his initial appointment in 2017.
But when Mr. Trump announced his D.E.A. pick on Saturday on social media, praising Sheriff Chronister's "countless commendations and awards," some longtime D.E.A. agents and officials started trading messages that simply read, "Who?"
Mr. Trump's D.E.A. selection was never going to be as well known, or as contentious, as his pick to run the F.B.I., which has long sat at the center of his aggrieved belief that the country's national security apparatus has been out to get him. And unlike Kash Patel, the loyalist whom Mr. Trump wants to take control of -- or perhaps a wrecking ball to -- the bureau, it does not appear that Sheriff Chronister was chosen to wreak vengeance on the president-elect's enemies inside the D.E.A.
Still, Sheriff Chronister will likely face an array of challenges should he be confirmed as the agency's administrator, starting with the fact that the D.E.A.'s budget is nearly five times as large and has almost three times as many employees as the department he now runs. The agency also operates in more than 60 countries and works in close coordination with other federal law enforcement agencies and with the intelligence community.
Some D.E.A. veterans spent Saturday and Sunday looking up Sheriff Chronister and quietly wondering whether he was up for the tasks of confronting Mexico's drug cartels and curbing China's production of fentanyl. Those tough jobs have gotten harder given Mr. Trump's repeated threats to put tariffs on both countries as a way of not only stopping the flow of drugs into the United States but also stemming migration.
At least one agent who knows the sheriff well said he would succeed.
"The appointment of Chad Chronister to lead the women and men of DEA will be transformative," Mike Furgason, the assistant special agent in charge of the agency's Tampa office, wrote on Sunday in a LinkedIn post that was widely shared among agency employees.
By linking economic and immigration policy to the D.E.A.'s traditional anti-narcotics mission, Mr. Trump has made the job of running the agency more difficult than ever. Complicating matters, the president-elect has often said he would like to designate drug cartels as terrorist organizations -- a move that could alienate the Mexican government and make it easier to use the U.S. military to go after drug lords or to attack narcotics labs on Mexican soil.
Sheriff Chronister appears to have little experience in such matters -- or in any other of the geopolitical dimensions of the drug war. What he does have in his favor, however, are significant connections to Mr. Trump's allies.
He was working in the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office when Pam Bondi, Mr. Trump's choice to serve as attorney general, was a prosecutor and a spokeswoman for the county's State Attorney's Office. The two are close enough that when Mr. Trump announced Ms. Bondi's nomination to run the Justice Department last month, the sheriff posted a photo of himself with her, offering his congratulations.
Sheriff Chronister is also the son-in-law of Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., a former owner of the San Francisco 49ers, who received a pardon from Mr. Trump in 2020.
Mr. DeBartolo pleaded guilty in 1998 to concealing an extortion plot connected to a riverboat casino license that a company he invested in was seeking in Louisiana. Though he avoided prison, he was fined $ 1 million and suspended for a year by the N.F.L.
Mr. Trump granted him clemency after being lobbied by a host of N.F.L. greats, including Jim Brown, the Hall of Fame running back, and Joe Montana, the legendary 49ers quarterback.
A Pennsylvania native who once worked in construction and as a hotel bellhop, Sheriff Chronister met his wife, Nikki DeBartolo, while doing security work for her family. The couple was married in 2010, and he was quickly swept into her world of philanthropy and high society, often joining her at events that might include a fund-raising dinner for a Tampa hospital or a gala for the local Boys and Girls Club.
"We don't like to be apart," Ms. DeBartolo told Tampa Magazine in an interview last month. "So even when there are events, we consider those as date nights too, because half the time that's when we can manage to get a date night in."
A longtime Republican, Sheriff Chronister was first appointed to his post in 2017 by Rick Scott, then Florida's governor, after the previous sheriff, David Gee, unexpectedly retired.
During his tenure, he has enacted some fairly progressive policies for a Florida law enforcement officer, including a program that offers first-time offenders convicted of nonviolent crimes the chance to avoid arrests on their records.
"The reality is people make mistakes," Sheriff Chronister said in an interview during his 2020 campaign. "By providing this opportunity for nonviolent, misdemeanor offenses, these adults within our community will be able to maintain gainful employment, provide for their families and remain productive citizens without being saddled with a criminal record."
Sheriff Chronister has also supported decriminalizing the possession of small amounts of marijuana in his county, echoing Mr. Trump himself, who said in September that he planned to vote for a statewide Florida ballot measure legalizing recreational marijuana.
Sheriff Chronister did not take a public stand on the proposal, which fell short of the 60 percent supermajority it needed to be enacted under Florida state law.
Photograph Sheriff Chad Chronister of Hillsborough County, Fla., last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUIS SANTANA/TAMPA BAY TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Political appointments; Nonviolence; Sheriffs; Law enforcement; Cartels; Narcotics; Government agencies

Business indexing term: Subject: Cartels

Location: Florida; United States--US

People: Chronister, Chad

Company / organization: Name: Drug Enforcement Administration--DEA; NAICS: 922120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/01/us/politics/trump-chad-chronister-dea.html

Title: D.E.A. Pick Is Rooted in Local Law Enforcement:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 2, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3134589388

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/d-e-pick-is-rooted-local-law-enforcement/docview/3134589388/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Financial District's Hip Mystery Tower: [Style Desk]

Author: Iredale, Jessica

Publication info: Iredale, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/financial-districts-hip-mystery-tower/docview/3134422979/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Price of Being Cool? A Quarter-Billion Dollars.
Deep in the canyons of New York's financial district, there is an office tower that matches the cultural moment, for better and for worse. It might be the first "It" building.
Known as the WSA building (short for Water Street Associates), the 31-story structure, at 175 Water Street, has become a nexus for the kind of people who might not otherwise set foot in this neighborhood of bankers and brokers.
It is owned by developers who have been awarded a $ 41.3 million discretionary tax break from a recently established New York City government program to help pay for their vision and the $ 150 million renovation that goes with it.
Built in 1983, the tower was the longtime global headquarters of the insurance giant A.I.G. After A.I.G. sold the building for about $ 270 million in 2019, it sat all but empty during much of the pandemic, when scores of companies, including A.I.G., left the financial district. In late 2022, an LLC under the name 99c bought the building for $ 252 million and announced a bold plan to "reinvent" the property.
Now, in place of the underwriters and claims adjusters who once toiled on its floors, the building is starting to fill up with artists, designers and boutique creative agencies, many of whom pay rents far below the going rate. By night, it has become the site of splashy events that generate reams of social media content and press coverage.
The model Emily Ratajkowski co-hosted two parties there after the annual Met Gala, drawing guests including Kendall Jenner and the singers Lana Del Rey and Bad Bunny. At two awards dinners held in the building, GQ magazine attracted a who's who of the modern-day statusphere -- the Formula 1 champ Sir Lewis Hamilton, the novelist Min Jin Lee, the Apple chief executive Tim Cook, and the multi-hyphenate Donald Glover. In September, when Ms. Jenner wanted to show the world that she had gone blonde, she posted photos of herself taken inside the tower.
On a recent afternoon, WSA tenants stopped in at the lobby cafe to pick up $ 35 sashimi lunches and cold-pressed juices. Several floors above, models and stylists traded air kisses while waiting for a casting. Elsewhere, amid the din of construction, movers lugged 1980s-inspired office furnishings by Vladimir Kagan, Tobia Scarpa, and Joe Colombo into plush-carpeted conference rooms, as if readying them for important business meetings.
Vases filled with artfully arranged flowers were everywhere, even on the vacant 17th floor, where a test kitchen and screening rooms were not yet open. On the 23rd floor, known as the Water Lounge, wellness professionals tended to clients in treatment rooms, where a 60-minute jojoba-oil massage costs $ 225.
Word of mouth and select invitations, sweetened by the bargain rents, have brought in the creative class. Leases obtained by The New York Times show that some tenants have signed steeply discounted two-year leases, with an option to renew for a third year, when rents will nearly double.
When one prospective tenant toured a 3,000-square-foot office in the building, the rent was quoted as "28." Because of the location and luxe amenities, she assumed that meant $ 28,000 per month. Shocked to learn it was $ 2,800, she signed posthaste.
A 3,000-square-foot space at $ 2,800 per month works out to $ 11.20 per square foot. The average asking rent for downtown office space is $ 57.16 per square foot, according to a recent report by the broker CBRE.
WSA seems to be going with a warp-speed version of a strategy that many landlords have used to boost rents in once-industrial neighborhoods: Buy an old building, spruce it up, bring in creative professionals to make the area buzzy -- and hope that tenants able to pay full price will follow.
But the economics remain daunting. In addition to the planned $ 150 million renovation, WSA's developers must bring in enough to cover the $ 165 million mortgage they have taken out on the building. There are also broker commissions and operating costs, which, according to commercial real estate agents, run $ 10 to $ 12 per square foot in Lower Manhattan. "The numbers just don't pencil out," observed a developer who owns office buildings in the city, speaking on the condition of anonymity to offer an assessment of the project.
WSA has certainly attracted the people it wants. The independent fashion designers Bode, Luar and Rosie Assoulin have space in the building. Other tenants include the chefs' collective Ghetto Gastro and the underground-ish magazine and media company Office.
The unusual goings-on have spurred talk, even among people who rent there. "Nobody knows," one tenant said, when he was asked how the developers could afford such a dramatic renovation and perks like afternoon Champagne carts while charging so little. Then he shrugged, filled a cup with gratis gummy worms in a spotless communal kitchenette, and returned to his retro-chic office space.
The Team Behind the Dream
The project's driving force and de facto spokeswoman is Gabriella Khalil, a style-conscious woman in her early 40s who grew up in Conshohocken, Pa., about 15 miles from Philadelphia.
Married to Matthew Khalil, a British real estate developer, Ms. Khalil has spent many of her adult years in London. These days, she is a fixture at WSA functions and posts frequently about the building on social media.
She made her name with Palm Heights, a luxury hotel on Grand Cayman island that she opened with her husband in 2019. Vogue called her "the coolest hotel creative director" and described the resort as "the A-list's new favorite winter escape."
After moving to New York two years ago with her husband and daughter, Ms. Khalil captured the attention of fashion and lifestyle publications as she set about attracting the right kind of tenants to the WSA building.
Into the Gloss reported on her skin-care regimen. British Vogue showcased her two-bedroom New York apartment, in the Jenga Building of Tribeca. A year later, a jewelry website ran a photo shoot of Ms. Khalil in a different New York dwelling, a loft on Canal Street. The décor in both apartments was similar to that of the WSA building.
None of those stories went into any detail on how the WSA building had come together. In an interview for this article, Ms. Khalil was visibly uncomfortable answering certain questions, adding to the opacity surrounding the project.
She was seated in the WSA members' lounge on the 10th floor, with views of the East River and the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges. Asked who owned the building, she was unforthcoming. "A few private families own the space," she said. She noted that her family was not among the owners, adding, "There's been a million layers to this over the past couple years."
She seemed more at ease talking about the particular shade of the carpeting -- "I say rust, but cognac probably sounds better" -- and her duties, which include furnishing the space with Instagrammable pieces like the whimsical bed in the shape of two giant feet (intermittently available for upward of $ 30,000 on 1st Dibs) in the lobby. She also laid out ambitious plans for production facilities, art galleries, restaurants, bars and a four-floor department store.
Ms. Khalil studied contemporary art at the Sotheby's Institute of Art in London before working in galleries and as an interior designer. Which galleries? "Small, boutique ones," she said. In her time as a designer, did she work for a firm? Or have her own clients? "A little bit, but not really," she said.
She said she met the man who would become her husband while visiting Miami about 20 years ago. Mr. Khalil, 44, declined interview requests, leaving his wife to speak on his behalf. The website of his London company, Khalil & Kane, describes it as "an international multi-award winning real estate development and advisory firm."
Also within the Khalils' purview is Happier People Management, a hospitality group founded in 2022 that employs between 200 and 500 people, according to its LinkedIn page. Happier People operates WSA and Happier Grocery on Canal Street, a market that sells things like Blue Milk (ingredients include spirulina, almond milk, magnesium and royal jelly) at $ 9.99 for a 16-ounce bottle.
The Khalils are also involved in Scott Avenue Associates, a members-only club in Brooklyn. Located at 154 Scott Ave., across from a recycling plant, SAA offers access to work spaces, a gym and a yoga studio. It also has a marble spa and rooftop pool that was filled with water over the summer but apparently has yet to open. Some SAA patrons have canceled memberships, frustrated that some of the facilities were not up and running.
Gathering the Crowd
From the dozens of interviews conducted for this article, it seems that Ms. Khalil is very well liked and Mr. Khalil is very private. Before running Palm Heights, the hotel in the Caymans, the couple had no apparent track record in hospitality.
"I don't know their experience before this," said Zoe Lukov, a curator who has installed exhibits at the WSA building and Palm Heights.
Sarah Harris, a longtime editor at British Vogue, knew Ms. Khalil socially, since their daughters attended the same nursery school. "She didn't have such a high profile in London," Ms. Harris said. "I don't remember hearing her talk about, 'Well, I'd love to open a hotel one day."'
Many WSA tenants have been guests at Palm Heights, which opened shortly before the pandemic limited travel. Amid that global disaster, this spot on Seven Mile Beach, with its signature yellow umbrellas, hosted a sexy celebrity scene. Pamela Anderson and Hailey Bieber did photo shoots there. In August, the model Gabbriette posed in a lavender metallic bikini on the sand.
A number of people within the WSA orbit have stayed at Palm Heights free of charge. "Who's to say no to checking out a new hotel in the Cayman Islands?" said Sue Chan, whose company, Care of Chan, handles culinary programming at Palm Heights, SAA and the WSA building, where it rents space.
As Condé Nast Traveler and The Wall Street Journal gave Palm Heights glowing reviews, workers told another story. The Cayman News Service reported last year on staff complaints about poor working conditions, discrimination and a lack of gratuity payments. When workers reportedly walked off the job, a Caymanian government agency conducted an investigation of Palm Heights. The agency said it could not comment on its findings.
Ms. Khalil said Palm Heights started on a whim. While vacationing on Grand Cayman, she and her husband came upon what she described as an undesirable beachfront property that "felt like a motel."
They took it on as a family project sometime around 2017, she said. The owner was Cayman Shores Development, an entity belonging to the American expatriate billionaire Ken Dart, who is believed to be the Caymans' biggest landowner. At the time, the Khalils were not acquainted with the artists, designers and influencers who now inhabit the world of WSA.
"We had to basically try and recruit people," Ms. Khalil said.
In 2017, the couple met Sam Wessner, the co-owner of El Rey, a now-closed cafe on New York's Lower East Side. Who connected Mr. Wessner and the Khalils? The name slips everyone's minds.
Mr. Wessner said in a telephone interview that he agreed to get involved, though he was not familiar with Mr. Khalil's work as a developer. "Their vision of a type of hospitality was different than what I've heard before," Mr. Wessner said.
Away they went on a recruitment spree, with Mr. Wessner as the conduit to cool. He made introductions to Emily Adams Bode Aujla, who designed the Palm Heights uniforms. Raul Lopez, designer of the fashion line Luar, was invited to Grand Cayman for a dinner party in 2018.
"It was a lot of people who were fresh and kind of doing their thing, but not yet established," Mr. Lopez recalled. "It was really fun." Describing Ms. Khalil, he said, "She's been a mentor, such a machine."
Mr. Wessner also introduced the Khalils to Ian Nicholson, a hotelier with decades in the business.
As the former chief executive of Faena Hotels, Mr. Nicholson has applied his touch to the Château Marmont in Los Angeles, the Soho Grand and Tribeca Grand in New York, and André Balazs's Standard brand, which has hotels in New York and other cities around the world. What sold him on Palm Heights?
"They had the real estate," he said.
A WSA spokeswoman said that Mr. Nicholson is now the chief operating officer of Happier People, the Khalils' management company.
The Dart of It All
Given the opaquely named LLCs listed in public records, not to mention Ms. Khalil's reluctance to go into detail, it's not easy to single out who owns the WSA building. Initial reports on the 2022 sale in real estate trade publications pointed to Mr. Dart, the secretive billionaire.
Mr. Dart grew up a scion of a Michigan family business, Dart Container, a leader in the polystyrene foam market. He moved to the Caymans in the early 1990s, renounced his U.S. citizenship and has not spoken to the media since 1993.
In September 2022, before the deal had closed, news outlets reported that one of his companies, Dart Enterprises, was acquiring the WSA building. The next month, an article in The Real Deal reported that Mr. Dart was not part of the deal and that Francesco Bellini, a Canadian bio-pharma mogul, was a lead buyer by way of 99c, an LLC he had co-founded with his son, Carlo Bellini, and Dawson Stellberger, a real estate developer in Brooklyn.
When the sale had closed, Carlo Bellini said the group would bring "a comprehensive re-use plan" to the building. (As part of that plan, the property has a new street address, 161 Water Street, though it is still listed as 175 Water Street in public documents.)
Mr. Stellberger has developed industrial and commercial properties, mostly in Brooklyn, including Elsewhere and 99 Scott, a space that has hosted photo shoots, raves and fashion shows for indie designers.
Mr. Stellberger, who said he met Mr. Khalil a decade ago, was the only 99c partner who agreed to be interviewed for this article. He said he focuses on "buildings that generally are out of favor, that people don't know what to do with, and find a way to activate them and build community and make them alive again."
He and his partners entered Lower Manhattan partly because of the recent drop in prices. "Typically, you wouldn't see artists coming to these sorts of office towers in the financial district," Mr. Stellberger said. "But as pricing shifted and people didn't want to be in these buildings, it became feasible to repurpose the space."
Despite the earlier reports that Mr. Dart was out of the deal, businesses affiliated with the Dart family appear to have a connection to the WSA building, according to a Times review of public records.
The signature of Thomas Ta appears on a number of WSA-related documents, including the deed for the building and the mortgage for $ 165 million. Public records also show that, since 2004, Mr. Ta has had many of the same home addresses as Corina Dart, one of Mr. Dart's three daughters from his first marriage.
New York City Real Estate Property Transfer Tax documents also suggest a link between the WSA building and Dart companies. Specifically, the records show that a 31 percent ownership stake in six properties associated with Mr. Stellberger -- including 175 Water Street, 154 Scott Ave. and 53 Scott Ave. -- was sold by Atlas USA Holdings LLC to Titan Group Development. Atlas and Titan are both Dart entities.
Why the secrecy on the part of the Khalils and their partners?
"We like to kind of remain in the background," Mr. Stellberger said. "I think there's a lot of big personalities in New York City real estate and hospitality. It's just not sort of our ethos."
Further requests for clarification about WSA, 99c, Happier People, Dart entities and others involved in the project were denied.
The Tax Break
The plan for the $ 150 million renovation includes the "demolition" and rebuilding of "all interior spaces," according to public documents.
To help defray the cost, the WSA team applied for a tax incentive available through the newly established Manhattan Commercial Revitalization Program, or M-CORE, a city government program meant to help developers weather the post-pandemic slump. It is overseen by two nonprofits, the New York City Economic Development Corporation and the New York City Industrial Development Agency.
During a Jan. 23 meeting of the M-CORE board, the directors expressed enthusiasm about WSA's plan to bring so-called FACT (fashion, arts, creative and technology) tenants to the building. Some board members said that the entry of such people into the financial district would create a "ripple" effect that would revitalize the area. Only one dissented: Francesco Brindisi of the New York City comptroller's office.
According to the published minutes, Mr. Brindisi said he doubted the developers needed M-CORE assistance, given that they had spent a quarter-billion dollars to buy the property and had stated at the time of the sale -- before M-CORE was up and running -- that they planned on an overhaul. He was the only board member who voted against giving aid to WSA under the program.
Emily Falda, the executive director of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, voted yes after cautioning that the agency would "terminate" the arrangement "if the project isn't completed as described in the project docs."
Shortly after the meeting, the agency announced that it had awarded $ 41.3 million in tax breaks to WSA over a 20-year period. The incentive, it said, would help the developers install "a conceptual department store spanning four floors" as well as "production facilities" and "numerous restaurants and bars." The aid from the program comes in addition to $ 39.8 million in tax breaks that the building's owners had already received for the project, according to public documents.
The M-CORE approval came with caveats. In a report published after the vote, the board noted that WSA "does not currently have an anchor tenant." It also stated that WSA "may need to transfer a controlling interest in the facility to unrelated persons or entities, such as lenders, prior to the completion of project improvements, pending approval to do so by the board." Despite those misgivings, the agency concluded that the WSA plan would "improve an outdated commercial office building that is facing significant and prolonged vacancy."
Asked in an interview how the WSA project had made the cut, Melissa Román Burch, the chief operating officer of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, cited "transformations that they've done in buildings in London that were really important precedents."
Asked to provide detail, Ms. Roman Burch mentioned 180 the Strand, a Brutalist building in Central London that went through a renovation over the last decade.
"There's a signature asset there that is very much positioned around this sort of FACT tenant thesis," she said.
Mr. Khalil was a "general partner" in that project, according to the agency's report. A WSA spokeswoman would not comment on Mr. Khalil's role at 180 the Strand.
That building is owned by the veteran real estate developer Mark Wahdwa. "I know Matt very well," Mr. Wahdwa said by phone from London, referring to Mr. Khalil. Mr. Wahdwa did not specify exactly what role Mr. Khalil played in the development of 180 the Strand.
Mr. Wahdwa's vision for 180 the Strand presents an exact template for WSA. Its early tenants included the designers Virgil Abloh and Grace Wales Bonner. Mr. Wahdwa's wife, the fashion designer Alex Eagle, also has space there.
Mr. Wahdwa described his approach: "Give a home to incredible talent who then earn more money because of the community they have, who then pay more rent. If you're clever enough to hang around me a lot, you could understand that."
This fall, WSA has been lit up with events and installations. There was Collectible, a furniture and design fair; Available Works, an art book fair; Yes, Chef, an art show including works by the artists Marilyn Minter, Sarah Lucas, Chloe Wise and Tavares Strachan; and a pop-up restaurant, Black Caesar. A few weeks after Ms. Jenner revealed her new hair color at WSA, Beyoncé posted to Instagram photos of herself at Waters, a restaurant at 175 Water Street billed as "coming soon."
Now Ms. Khalil needs workers to serve the crowd she has assembled. Happier People Management has posted job listings for chefs, pastry cooks, baristas, massage therapists, internet techs and bookkeepers. There is also a slot, with a minimum salary of $ 60,000, for a "music and culture manager." A tally of the salaries listed for the jobs suggest a monthly operating budget in the millions.
In July, 99c bought another skyscraper in the financial district, at 180 Maiden Lane, for $ 297 million. Will there be enough cool kids left in New York City to fill it?
Charles V. Bagli contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.
Charles V. Bagli contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.
Photograph The WSA building, above, has attracted artists, designers and boutique creative agencies, many of whom pay rents far below the going rate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST8-ST9); Above, the musician Trent Reznor, left, and GQ's global editorial director, Will Welch, far right, at the WSA building in April. Left, Gabriella Khalil, WSA's driving force, made her name in 2019 with a luxury hotel on Grand Cayman island. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; STEVE EICHNER/WWD, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Commercial real estate; Flooring; Office space; Awards & honors; Fashion designers; Social networks; Art galleries & museums; Tenants

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Art galleries & museums

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/29/style/wsa-building.html

Title: Financial District's Hip Mystery Tower:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 1, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3134422979

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/financial-districts-hip-mystery-tower/docview/3134422979/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Should You Still Learn to Code in an A.I. World?: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kessler, Sarah

Publication info: Kessler, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/should-you-still-learn-code-i-world/docview/3134422927/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Coding boot camps once looked like the golden ticket to an economically secure future. But as that promise fades, what should you do? Keep learning, until further notice.
When Florencio Rendon was laid off from his third construction job in three years, he said, "it was the straw that broke the camel's back."
He was 36, a father of two, and felt time was running out to find a career that would offer higher pay and more stability. "I've always been doing jobs that require physical labor," he remembers thinking. "What if I start using my brain for once?"
An Army veteran, Mr. Rendon explored training programs he could fund using his military benefits. He landed on a coding boot camp.
At first, the intensive courses seemed intimidating. Mr. Rendon had gotten his high school equivalency diploma before joining the Army, and he had taken some college courses, but he didn't consider himself book smart.
Still, he thought about his children, who are now 4 and 2, and reasoned, "If I can make this work, then I should at least give it a try."
His application to a course run by the company Fullstack Academy was accepted, and he started classes in April 2023, with a grant for military veterans that covered the $ 13,000 tuition. While the material was challenging, he was pleasantly surprised to learn he could get the hang of it, and four months later, he graduated from an online program that he completed from his home in the Bronx.
The setback came after graduation: "Little did I know," Mr. Rendon said of his new skills, "that's not enough to get a job."
Between the time Mr. Rendon applied for the coding boot camp and the time he graduated, what Mr. Rendon imagined as a "golden ticket" to a better life had expired. About 135,000 start-up and tech industry workers were laid off from their jobs, according to one count. At the same time, new artificial intelligence tools like ChatGPT, an online chatbot from OpenAI, which could be used as coding assistants, were quickly becoming mainstream, and the outlook for coding jobs was shifting.
Mr. Rendon says he didn't land a single interview.
Coding boot camp graduates across the country are facing a similarly tough job market. In Philadelphia, Mal Durham, a lawyer who wanted to change careers, was about halfway through a part-time coding boot camp late last year when its organizers with the nonprofit Launchcode delivered disappointing news.
"They said: 'Here is what the hiring metrics look like. Things are down. The number of opportunities is down,"' she said. "It was really disconcerting."
In Boston, Dan Pickett, the founder of a boot camp called Launch Academy, decided in May to pause his courses indefinitely because his job placement rates, once as high as 90 percent, had dwindled to below 60 percent.
"I loved what we were doing," he said. "We served the market. We changed a lot of lives. The team didn't want that to turn sour."
Compared with five years ago, the number of active job postings for software developers has dropped 56 percent, according to data compiled by CompTIA. For inexperienced developers, the plunge is an even worse 67 percent.
"I would say this is the worst environment for entry-level jobs in tech, period, that I've seen in 25 years," said Venky Ganesan, a partner at the venture capital firm Menlo Ventures.
For years, the career advice from everyone who mattered -- the Apple chief executive Tim Cook, your mother -- was "learn to code." It felt like an immutable equation: Coding skills + hard work = job.
Now the math doesn't look so simple.
Irresistible A.I.
Since their emergence in the mid-2010s, intensive courses in basic coding skills have been praised as a quick route to a high-paying career, especially for people who didn't graduate from college. President Barack Obama made them part of his jobs initiative, nonprofits set them up to propel people of diverse backgrounds into tech careers, and universities from Harvard to Berkeley offered their own versions.
And they worked. In a 2020 survey of 3,000 boot camp graduates by CourseReport, 79 percent of respondents said the courses had helped them land a job in tech, with an average salary increase of 56 percent.
But the industry pulled back from hiring at the same time that new A.I. coding tools were starting to become mainstream. In 2022, Google's A.I. team, DeepMind, reported that it had tested its A.I. model AlphaCode in coding competitions, and that it was as good as "a novice programmer with a few months to a year of training."
It took a few more years, but the tools available to a typical programmer have since improved markedly. This September, OpenAI released a new version of ChatGPT. It computes answers in a way that is different from previous models and may be even better at writing code. Tools like AlphaCode from Google and Copilot from GitHub generate snippets of code for specific purposes, testing or optimizing existing code and finding bugs.
The real proof is among developers: About 60 percent of 65,000 developers surveyed in May by StackOverflow, a software developer community, said they had used A.I. coding tools this year.
Not everyone sees these developments as a death knell for coding jobs. Armando Solar-Lezama, who, as the leader of M.I.T.'s Computer Assisted Programming Group, spends his days thinking about how to bring more automation into coding, said A.I. tools still lacked a lot of the essential skills of even junior programmers. His research has shown, for example, how large language models like GPT-4 failed to truly understand the problems they were solving with code and made sometimes ridiculous mistakes.
"When you're talking about more foundational skills, knowing how to reason about a piece of code, knowing how to track down a bug across a large system, those are things that the current models really don't know how to do," he said.
Still, A.I. is changing how software is made. In one study, an A.I. Coding assistant made developers 20 percent more productive. Google's chief executive, Sundar Pichai, said on a recent call with analysts that more than a quarter of the company's new code was now generated by A.I., but reviewed and accepted by engineers.
As with any discussion about automation, there are two ways people tend to forecast the outcomes of this development. Mr. Solar-Lezama believes that A.I. tools are good news for programming careers. If coding becomes easier, he argues, we'll just make more, better software. We'll use it to solve problems that wouldn't have been worth the hassle previously, and standards will skyrocket.
The other view: "I think it's pretty grim," said Zach Sims, a co-founder of Codecademy, an online coding tutorial company. He was talking specifically about the job prospects for coding boot camp graduates.
Hiring: GPT Monkeys
To be clear, both Mr. Solar-Lezama and Mr. Sims -- and just about everyone working in technology whom I interviewed for this article -- still think you should learn to code. But some see a parallel with long division: It's good to understand how it works. It's an arguably necessary exercise for learning more advanced mathematics. But on its own, it gets you only so far.
Matt Beane, an assistant professor of technology management at the University of California, Santa Barbara, is studying how the use of A.I. tools is already affecting entry-level coders at five large corporations across industries like banking and insurance.
"The phrase GPT monkey has come up repeatedly and independently," he said. "They feel like they are relegated to small tasks that they just sort of churn through with the help of some A.I.-related tool."
Sometimes, the new coders he is tracking don't even get the opportunity to do that. Because A.I.-generated code is riddled with errors that are hard to spot without experience, senior developers sometimes find it easier to generate and edit it themselves than to let it fall to a junior programmer.
Mr. Beane observed the same conundrum with other skills in which work was being automated, like surgery and financial analysis: Beginners need more expertise to be useful, but getting the type of experience that would normally help build that expertise is becoming harder.
For a while, basic coding skills were a clear on-ramp to a tech career for people like Mr. Rendon who didn't have a college education or a lot of experience. In the future, entry-level coders may need a broader range of skills and more training to be effective. They may have to understand more about how their code works within a broader system.
Strategizing around business problems is also becoming more important, said Stephanie Wernick Barker, the president of Mondo, a tech staffing and recruitment firm, "So college degrees are still king."
In other words, the biggest change taking shape in software jobs may be not that A.I. replaces software engineers, but that it makes it more difficult to become one.
Stay Sharp. Keep Learning.
In the arena of cliché job advice, "learn to code" has been replaced by a call for "A.I. skills."
M.I.T., Cornell, Northwestern, Columbia and other universities now lend their names to A.I. certificates. Fullstack Academy, the coding boot camp Mr. Rendon attended, recently started a 26-week A.I. and machine learning boot camp. And companies like Booz Allen and JPMorgan Chase are offering free A.I. courses to employees.
The most popular job titles specific to A.I. include "machine-learning engineer" and "artificial intelligence engineer," according to CompTIA. Some skills listed in these job postings are "deploying and scaling machine-learning models" and "automating large language model training, versioning, monitoring and deployment processes."
You can't learn that quickly without a math or coding background.
Another category of "A.I. skill" feels more elusive. In a recent survey of more than 9,000 executives by Microsoft and LinkedIn, 66 percent said they wouldn't hire someone without A.I. skills, but it's unclear, exactly, what those skills look like.
It doesn't help that the technology is moving quickly: Depending on whom you ask, we may be either a few years or many decades away from A.I. that can basically do anything the human brain can. When I asked Mr. Beane what we should be teaching young people to make them employable, he said: "You have to just stay sharp. You have to keep learning. Until further notice."
Robert Wolcott, a venture investor who teaches business classes at both Northwestern's Kellogg School of Management and the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, said he tells anxious parents that their children should study whatever they're passionate about, even if it's ancient architecture, but also take a class in statistics, accounting and computing.
"I think you learn to learn," said Mr. Ganesan, the venture capitalist.
Mike Taylor, the chief technology officer of the global tech services company World Wide Technology, provided perhaps the most straightforward list: "problem solving skills," "business acumen and values" and "clear and persuasive communication skills."
Compared with "learn to code," though, this is not easily actionable advice. For Mr. Rendon, the Fullstack Academy graduate, the dilemma isn't an abstract one.
When he didn't land any interviews for coding jobs, he went back to construction. The project finished, and he was laid off again.
When I first spoke with him in early August, he was pondering a choice. He was interviewing for a job with the Border Patrol, which would require moving his family out of New York. But he had also learned that his veterans' benefits would provide him with enough housing assistance that he could go to college to study computer science.
College seemed like a good idea, "but what if I go this route and it doesn't work out?" he asked.
Two months later, he had enrolled in the college classes. In his first computer science class, the professor went over the history of computers. It was a lot different from coding boot camp.
"This is more like general stuff that opens the possibility for other things," he said.
Photograph Above, Florencio Rendon, who graduated from an online training program for coding. Below, Armando Solar-Lezama, who leads M.I.T.'s Computer Assisted Programming Group. He says that A.I. tools are good news for programming careers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; VEASEY CONWAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU4.

Subject: Software; Hiring; Careers; Automation; Personal profiles; Layoffs; Employment; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Hiring Careers Automation Layoffs Employment

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/24/business/computer-coding-boot-camps.html

Title: Should You Still Learn to Code in an A.I. World?:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 1, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3134422927

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/should-you-still-learn-code-i-world/docview/3134422927/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Financial District’s Hip Mystery Tower

Author: Iredale, Jessica

Publication info: Iredale, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/financial-district-s-hip-mystery-tower/docview/3134396427/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

NEW YORK — Deep in the canyons of New York’s financial district, there is an office tower that matches the cultural moment, for better and for worse. It might be the first “It” building.
Known as the WSA building (short for Water Street Associates), the 31-story structure, at 175 Water St., has become a nexus for the kind of people who might not otherwise set foot in this neighborhood of bankers and brokers.
It is owned by developers who have been awarded a $41.3 million discretionary tax break from a recently established New York City government program to help pay for their vision and the $150 million renovation that goes with it.
Built in 1983, the tower was the longtime global headquarters of insurance giant AIG. After AIG sold the building for about $270 million in 2019, it sat all but empty during much of the pandemic, when scores of companies, including AIG, left the financial district. In late 2022, an LLC under the name 99c bought the building for $252 million and announced a bold plan to “reinvent” the property.
Now, in place of the underwriters and claims adjusters who once toiled on its floors, the building is starting to fill up with artists, designers and boutique creative agencies, many of whom pay rents far below the going rate. By night, it has become the site of splashy events that generate reams of social media content and press coverage.
Model Emily Ratajkowski co-hosted two parties there after the annual Met Gala, drawing guests including Kendall Jenner and singers Lana Del Rey and Bad Bunny. At two awards dinners held in the building, GQ magazine attracted a who’s who of the modern-day statusphere: Formula One champ Lewis Hamilton, novelist Min Jin Lee, Apple CEO Tim Cook and multihyphenate Donald Glover. In September, when Jenner wanted to show the world that she had gone blonde, she posted photos of herself taken inside the tower.
On a recent afternoon, WSA tenants stopped in at the lobby cafe to pick up $35 sashimi lunches and cold-pressed juices. Several floors above, models and stylists traded air kisses while waiting for a casting. Elsewhere, amid the din of construction, movers lugged 1980s-inspired office furnishings by Vladimir Kagan, Tobia Scarpa and Joe Colombo into plush-carpeted conference rooms, as if readying them for important business meetings.
Vases filled with artfully arranged flowers were everywhere, even on the vacant 17th floor, where a test kitchen and screening rooms were not yet open. On the 23rd floor, known as the Water Lounge, wellness professionals tended to clients in treatment rooms, where a 60-minute jojoba oil massage costs $225.
Word-of-mouth and select invitations, sweetened by the bargain rents, have brought in the creative class. Leases obtained by The New York Times show that some tenants have signed steeply discounted two-year leases, with an option to renew for a third year, when rents will nearly double.
When one prospective tenant toured a 3,000-square-foot office in the building, the rent was quoted as “28.” Because of the location and luxe amenities, she assumed that meant $28,000 per month. Shocked to learn it was $2,800, she signed posthaste.
A 3,000-square-foot space at $2,800 per month works out to $11.20 per square foot. The average asking rent for downtown office space is $57.16 per square foot, according to a recent report by the broker CBRE.
WSA seems to be going with a warp-speed version of a strategy that many landlords have used to boost rents in once-industrial neighborhoods: Buy an old building, spruce it up, bring in creative professionals to make the area buzzy — and hope that tenants able to pay full price will follow.
But the economics remain daunting. In addition to the planned $150 million renovation, WSA’s developers must bring in enough to cover the $165 million mortgage they have taken out on the building. There are also broker commissions and operating costs, which, according to commercial real estate agents, run $10 to $12 per square foot in lower Manhattan. “The numbers just don’t pencil out,” observed a developer who owns office buildings in the city, speaking on the condition of anonymity to offer an assessment of the project.
WSA has certainly attracted the people it wants. Independent fashion designers Bode, Luar and Rosie Assoulin have space in the building. Other tenants include the chefs’ collective Ghetto Gastro and the underground-ish magazine and media company Office.
The unusual goings-on have spurred talk, even among people who rent there. “Nobody knows,” one tenant said when he was asked how the developers could afford such a dramatic renovation and perks like afternoon Champagne carts while charging so little. Then he shrugged, filled a cup with gratis gummy worms in a spotless communal kitchenette and returned to his retro-chic office space.
The Team Behind the Dream
The project’s driving force and de facto spokesperson is Gabriella Khalil, a style-conscious woman in her early 40s who grew up in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, about 15 miles from Philadelphia.
Married to Matthew Khalil, a British real estate developer, Gabriella Khalil has spent many of her adult years in London. These days, she is a fixture at WSA functions and posts frequently about the building on social media.
She made her name with Palm Heights, a luxury hotel on Grand Cayman island that she opened with her husband in 2019. Vogue called her “the coolest hotel creative director” and described the resort as “the A-list’s new favorite winter escape.”
After moving to New York two years ago with her husband and daughter, Khalil captured the attention of fashion and lifestyle publications as she set about attracting the right kind of tenants to the WSA building.
Into the Gloss reported on her skin care regimen. British Vogue showcased her two-bedroom New York apartment, in the Jenga Building of Tribeca. A year later, a jewelry website ran a photo shoot of Khalil in a different New York dwelling, a loft on Canal Street. The décor in both apartments was similar to that of the WSA building.
None of those stories went into any detail on how the WSA building had come together. In an interview for this article, Khalil was visibly uncomfortable answering certain questions, adding to the opacity surrounding the project.
She was seated in the WSA members’ lounge on the 10th floor, with views of the East River and the Brooklyn and Manhattan bridges. Asked who owned the building, she was unforthcoming. “A few private families own the space,” she said. She noted that her family was not among the owners, adding, “There’s been a million layers to this over the past couple years.”
She seemed more at ease talking about the particular shade of the carpeting — “I say rust, but cognac probably sounds better” — and her duties, which include furnishing the space with Instagrammable pieces like the whimsical bed in the shape of two giant feet (intermittently available for upward of $30,000 on 1st Dibs) in the lobby. She also laid out ambitious plans for production facilities, art galleries, restaurants, bars and a four-floor department store.
Khalil studied contemporary art at the Sotheby’s Institute of Art in London before working in galleries and as an interior designer. Which galleries? “Small, boutique ones,” she said. In her time as a designer, did she work for a firm? Or have her own clients? “A little bit, but not really,” she said.
She said she met the man who would become her husband while visiting Miami about 20 years ago. Matthew Khalil, 44, declined interview requests, leaving his wife to speak on his behalf. The website of his London company, Khalil & Kane, describes it as “an international multi-award winning real estate development and advisory firm.”
Also within the Khalils’ purview is Happier People Management, a hospitality group founded in 2022 that employs between 200 and 500 people, according to its LinkedIn page. Happier People operates WSA and Happier Grocery on Canal Street, a market that sells things like Blue Milk (ingredients include spirulina, almond milk, magnesium and royal jelly) at $9.99 for a 16-ounce bottle.
The Khalils are also involved in Scott Avenue Associates, a members-only club in Brooklyn. Located at 154 Scott Ave., across from a recycling plant, SAA offers access to workspaces, a gym and a yoga studio. It also has a marble spa and rooftop pool that was filled with water over the summer but apparently has yet to open. Some SAA patrons have canceled memberships, frustrated that some of the facilities were not up and running.
Gathering the Crowd
From the dozens of interviews conducted for this article, it seems that Gabriella Khalil is very well liked and Matthew Khalil is very private. Before running Palm Heights, the hotel in the Caymans, the couple had no apparent track record in hospitality.
“I don’t know their experience before this,” said Zoe Lukov, a curator who has installed exhibits at the WSA building and Palm Heights.
Sarah Harris, a longtime editor at British Vogue, knew Gabriella Khalil socially, since their daughters attended the same nursery school. “She didn’t have such a high profile in London,” Harris said. “I don’t remember hearing her talk about, ‘Well, I’d love to open a hotel one day.’”
Many WSA tenants have been guests at Palm Heights, which opened shortly before the pandemic limited travel. Amid that global disaster, this spot on Seven Mile Beach, with its signature yellow umbrellas, hosted a sexy celebrity scene. Pamela Anderson and Hailey Bieber did photo shoots there. In August, model Gabbriette posed in a lavender metallic bikini on the sand.
A number of people within the WSA orbit have stayed at Palm Heights free of charge. “Who’s to say no to checking out a new hotel in the Cayman Islands?” said Sue Chan, whose company, Care of Chan, handles culinary programming at Palm Heights, SAA and the WSA building, where it rents space.
As Condé Nast Traveler and The Wall Street Journal gave Palm Heights glowing reviews, workers told another story. The Cayman News Service reported last year on staff complaints about poor working conditions, discrimination and a lack of gratuity payments. When workers reportedly walked off the job, a Caymanian government agency conducted an investigation of Palm Heights. The agency said it could not comment on its findings.
Gabriella Khalil said Palm Heights started on a whim. While vacationing on Grand Cayman, she and her husband came upon what she described as an undesirable beachfront property that “felt like a motel.”
They took it on as a family project sometime around 2017, she said. The owner was Cayman Shores Development, an entity belonging to American expatriate billionaire Ken Dart, who is believed to be the Caymans’ biggest landowner. At the time, the Khalils were not acquainted with the artists, designers and influencers who now inhabit the world of WSA.
“We had to basically try and recruit people,” Gabriella Khalil said.
In 2017, the couple met Sam Wessner, a co-owner of El Rey, a now-closed cafe on New York’s Lower East Side. Who connected Wessner and the Khalils? The name slips everyone’s minds.
Wessner said in a telephone interview that he agreed to get involved, though he was not familiar with Matthew Khalil’s work as a developer. “Their vision of a type of hospitality was different than what I’ve heard before,” Wessner said.
Away they went on a recruitment spree, with Wessner as the conduit to cool.
He made introductions to Emily Adams Bode Aujla, who designed the Palm Heights uniforms. Raul Lopez, designer of the fashion line Luar, was invited to Grand Cayman for a dinner party in 2018.
“It was a lot of people who were fresh and kind of doing their thing but not yet established,” Lopez recalled. “It was really fun.” Describing Gabriella Khalil, he said, “She’s been a mentor, such a machine.”
Wessner introduced the Khalils to Ian Nicholson, a hotelier with decades in the business.
As the former CEO of Faena Hotels, Nicholson has applied his touch to the Château Marmont in Los Angeles, the SoHo Grand and TriBeCa Grand in New York, and André Balazs’ Standard brand, which has hotels in New York and other cities around the world. What sold him on Palm Heights?
“They had the real estate,” he said.
A WSA spokesperson said that Nicholson is now the chief operating officer of Happier People, the Khalils’ management company.
The Dart of It All
Given the opaquely named LLCs listed in public records, not to mention Gabriella Khalil’s reluctance to go into detail, it’s not easy to single out who owns the WSA building. Initial reports on the 2022 sale in real estate trade publications pointed to Dart, the secretive billionaire.
Dart grew up a scion of a Michigan family business, Dart Container, a leader in the polystyrene foam market. He moved to the Caymans in the early 1990s, renounced his U.S. citizenship and has not spoken to the media since 1993.
In September 2022, before the deal had closed, news outlets reported that one of his companies, Dart Enterprises, was acquiring the WSA building. The next month, an article in The Real Deal reported that Dart was not part of the deal and that Francesco Bellini, a Canadian biopharma mogul, was a lead buyer by way of 99c, an LLC he had founded with his son, Carlo Bellini, and Dawson Stellberger, a real estate developer in Brooklyn.
When the sale had closed, Carlo Bellini said the group would bring “a comprehensive reuse plan” to the building. (As part of that plan, the property has a new street address, 161 Water St., though it is still listed as 175 Water St. in public documents.)
Stellberger has developed industrial and commercial properties, mostly in Brooklyn, including Elsewhere and 99 Scott, a space that has hosted photo shoots, raves and fashion shows for indie designers.
Stellberger, who said he met Matthew Khalil a decade ago, was the only 99c partner who agreed to be interviewed for this article. He said he focuses on “buildings that generally are out of favor, that people don’t know what to do with, and find a way to activate them and build community and make them alive again.”
He and his partners entered lower Manhattan partly because of the recent drop in prices. “Typically, you wouldn’t see artists coming to these sorts of office towers in the financial district,” Stellberger said. “But as pricing shifted and people didn’t want to be in these buildings, it became feasible to repurpose the space.”
Despite the earlier reports that Dart was out of the deal, businesses affiliated with the Dart family appear to have a connection to the WSA building, according to a Times review of public records.
The signature of Thomas Ta appears on a number of WSA-related documents, including the deed for the building and the mortgage for $165 million. Public records also show that since 2004, Ta has had many of the same home addresses as Corina Dart, one of Ken Dart’s three daughters from his first marriage.
New York City Real Estate Property Transfer Tax documents also suggest a link between the WSA building and Dart companies. Specifically, the records show that a 31% ownership stake in six properties associated with Stellberger — including 175 Water St., 154 Scott Ave. and 53 Scott Ave. — was sold by Atlas USA Holdings LLC to Titan Group Development. Atlas and Titan are both Dart entities.
Why the secrecy on the part of the Khalils and their partners?
“We like to kind of remain in the background,” Stellberger said. “I think there’s a lot of big personalities in New York City real estate and hospitality. It’s just not sort of our ethos.”
Further requests for clarification about WSA, 99c, Happier People, Dart entities and others involved in the project were denied.
The Tax Break
The plan for the $150 million renovation includes the “demolition” and rebuilding of “all interior spaces,” according to public documents.
To help defray the cost, the WSA team applied for a tax incentive available through the newly established Manhattan Commercial Revitalization Program, or M-CORE, a city government program meant to help developers weather the post-pandemic slump. It is overseen by two nonprofits: the New York City Economic Development Corp. and the New York City Industrial Development Agency.
During a Jan. 23 meeting of the M-CORE board, the directors expressed enthusiasm about WSA’s plan to bring so-called FACT (fashion, arts, creative and technology) tenants to the building. Some board members said that the entry of such people into the financial district would create a “ripple” effect that would revitalize the area. Only one dissented: Francesco Brindisi of the New York City comptroller’s office.
According to the published minutes, Brindisi said he doubted the developers needed M-CORE assistance, given that they had spent a quarter-billion dollars to buy the property and had stated at the time of the sale — before M-CORE was up and running — that they planned on an overhaul. He was the only board member who voted against giving aid to WSA under the program.
Emily Falda, the executive director of the New York City Economic Development Corp., voted yes after cautioning that the agency would “terminate” the arrangement “if the project isn’t completed as described in the project docs.”
Shortly after the meeting, the agency announced that it had awarded $41.3 million in tax breaks to WSA over a 20-year period. The incentive, it said, would help the developers install “a conceptual department store spanning four floors” as well as “production facilities” and “numerous restaurants and bars.” The aid from the program comes in addition to $39.8 million in tax breaks that the building’s owners had already received for the project, according to public documents.
The M-CORE approval came with caveats. In a report published after the vote, the board noted that WSA “does not currently have an anchor tenant.” It also stated that WSA “may need to transfer a controlling interest in the facility to unrelated persons or entities, such as lenders, prior to the completion of project improvements, pending approval to do so by the board.” Despite those misgivings, the agency concluded that the WSA plan would “improve an outdated commercial office building that is facing significant and prolonged vacancy.”
Asked in an interview how the WSA project had made the cut, Melissa Román Burch, the chief operating officer of the New York City Economic Development Corp., cited “transformations that they’ve done in buildings in London that were really important precedents.”
Asked to provide detail, Román Burch mentioned 180 the Strand, a brutalist building in Central London that went through a renovation over the last decade.
“There’s a signature asset there that is very much positioned around this sort of FACT tenant thesis,” she said.
Matthew Khalil was a “general partner” in that project, according to the agency’s report. A WSA spokesperson would not comment on Khalil’s role at 180 the Strand.
That building is owned by veteran real estate developer Mark Wahdwa. “I know Matt very well,” Wahdwa said by phone from London, referring to Matthew Khalil. Wahdwa did not specify exactly what role Khalil played in the development of 180 the Strand.
Wahdwa’s vision for 180 the Strand presents an exact template for WSA. Its early tenants included designers Virgil Abloh and Grace Wales Bonner. Wahdwa’s wife, fashion designer Alex Eagle, also has space there.
Wahdwa described his approach: “Give a home to incredible talent who then earn more money because of the community they have, who then pay more rent. If you’re clever enough to hang around me a lot, you could understand that.”
This fall, WSA has been lit up with events and installations. There was Collectible, a furniture and design fair; Available Works, an art book fair; Yes, Chef, an art show including works by artists Marilyn Minter, Sarah Lucas, Chloe Wise and Tavares Strachan; and a pop-up restaurant, Black Caesar. A few weeks after Jenner revealed her new hair color at WSA, Beyoncé posted to Instagram photos of herself at Waters, a restaurant at 175 Water St. billed as “coming soon.”
Now Gabriella Khalil needs workers to serve the crowd she has assembled. Happier People Management has posted job listings for chefs, pastry cooks, baristas, massage therapists, internet techs and bookkeepers. There is also a slot, with a minimum salary of $60,000, for a “music and culture manager.” A tally of the salaries listed for the jobs suggest a monthly operating budget in the millions.
In July, 99c bought another skyscraper in the financial district, at 180 Maiden Lane, for $297 million. Will there be enough cool kids left in New York City to fill it?
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Commercial real estate; Flooring; Office space; Awards & honors; Fashion designers; Social networks; Art galleries & museums; Tenants

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Art galleries & museums

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

Identifier / keyword: New York Times; Real Estate Brokers; Gentrification; Bode (Fashion Label); Del Rey, Lana; Vogue; Delaware; Privacy; Restaurants; Shortages; Cook, Timothy D; Parties (Soc ial); Soho Grand Hotel (Manhattan, Ny); Great Britain; Celebrities; Production; Small Business; New York City; United States; Tax Shelters; Into The Gloss Inc; London (England); Gabbriette (1997 ); Linkedin Corporation; Hair; Canada; Bad Bunny (Singer); Corporations; Bode, Emily Adams; Furniture; Financial District (Manhattan, Ny); Juices; Bonner, Grace Wales; Strachan, Tavares; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Lopez, Raul (Designer); Rap And Hip Hop; Yoga; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Design; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Kagan, Vladimir; Water Street (Manhattan, Ny); Exercise; Financial Brokers; Museums; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Instagram Inc; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Boards Of Directors; Shopping And Retail; Finances; Brooklyn (Nyc); Customer Relations; Formula One; Luar (Fashion Label); Art; East River (Nyc); Property Taxes; Book Trade And Publishing; Ghetto Gastro Global Llc; Mortgages; Ratajkowski, Emily; Wages And Salaries; Discount Selling; Gq; Wall Street Journal; Pennsylvania; Michigan; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Wireless Communications; Shutdowns (Institutional); News And News Media; Spas; Carpets And Rugs; Buildings (Structures); Lifestyle; British Pound (Currency); American International Group Inc; Area Planning And Renewal; Home Repairs And Improvements; Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Cooking And Cookbooks; Economic Development Corp; Income Inequality; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Collectors And Collections; British Vogue (Magazine); Lucas, Sarah; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Chloe (Fashion Label); Glover, Donald; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Cayman Islands; Lee, Min Jin; Seasons And Months; Philadelphia (Pa); Abloh, Virgil; Assoulin, Rosie; Minter, Marilyn; Travel And Vacations; Building (Construction); Brindisi (Italy); Wales Bonner (Fashion Label); Archives And Records; Soho (Manhattan, Ny); Tribeca (Manhattan, Ny); Colombo, Joe (1930 71); Water; Names, Organizational; Anderson, Pamela (1967 ); Economics (Theory And Philosophy); Canal Street (Manhattan, Ny); Creativity; Models (Professional); Manhattan (Nyc); Industrial Development Agency; Grand Cayman (Cayman Islands); Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Jenner, Kendall; Cbre Group Inc; Bars And Nightclubs; Appointments And Executive Changes; Urban Areas; Books And Literature; Lower East Side (Manhattan, Ny); Americans Abroad; Hotels And Travel Lodgings

Title: Financial District’s Hip Mystery Tower

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 30, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3134396427

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/financial-district-s-hip-mystery-tower/docview/3134396427/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-01

Database: Global Newsst ream Collection

____________________________________________________________

F.T.C. Antitrust Inquiry Targets Microsoft: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Mccabe, David

Publication info: Mccabe, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/f-t-c-antitrust-inquiry-targets-microsoft/docview/3133864216/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Regulators are demanding information from the company on its cloud computing, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity products.
The Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into whether Microsoft has violated antitrust law in multiple segments of its wide-ranging business, according to two people familiar with the inquiry, the latest salvo in a battle by the government to rein in the most powerful tech companies.
The agency recently sent a long and detailed formal request for information to the company asking about its cloud computing, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity products, the people said. Of particular interest to the F.T.C. is the way that Microsoft bundles its cloud computing offerings with office and security products, they added, alongside the company's growing power in the artificial intelligence space.
The aggressive move by the F.T.C. comes as its chair, Lina Khan, is probably heading out the door with less than two months left in the Biden administration. Ms. Khan, 35, has pushed the agency to police big companies and has tried to get ahead of fast-moving changes in the technology industry.
Ms. Khan is expected to leave her post as part of the transition to the administration of President-elect Donald J. Trump, after which the focus of tech regulation could change.
The inquiry into Microsoft continues the Biden administration's scrutiny of the biggest tech companies over the way people consume information, communicate and shop online. Already, the F.T.C. has sued Amazon and Meta, accusing them of anticompetitive behavior and stifling rivals. The Justice Department has also sued Google over its dominance in advertising technology, and Apple for making it difficult for consumers to leave its tightly knit universe of devices and software.
Microsoft, one of the most valuable companies in the world, with a disparate business that includes its Windows operating software, social media platform LinkedIn and video game platform Xbox, had largely escaped the recent ramp-up in antitrust scrutiny.
But in the late 1990s, the government attempted to break up the company over the dominance of its operating system and its efforts to stymie rivals to its own web browser. A judge ordered the breakup of the company, but an appeals court overturned his decision.
It's unclear if Mr. Trump will continue the aggressive push to rein in tech companies. During his first administration, the Justice Department began one of the current antitrust lawsuits against Google, and the F.T.C. filed its antitrust lawsuit against Meta.
Microsoft and the F.T.C. declined to comment. Bloomberg News and The Financial Times first reported details of the investigation.
Microsoft, which was founded in 1975, is now valued at over $ 3 trillion. In recent years, it has made major moves to expand from its origin as a maker of personal computer software. That included acquiring the video game software company Activision Blizzard for $ 69 billion last year -- a sale the F.T.C. failed to block.
The company's Azure cloud computing business, which essentially rents out computing power and accompanying services to other companies, has become a flagship product. Microsoft is the largest investor in the artificial intelligence start-up OpenAI, and has teamed up with it to sell access to OpenAI's systems through Azure.
(The New York Times has sued OpenAI and Microsoft, claiming copyright infringement of news content related to A.I. systems. The two companies have denied the suit's claims.)
Microsoft has come under recent scrutiny for high-profile system failures that have underscored the central role it plays in the infrastructure of the internet. In July, an update by the cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike caused computers around the world running Microsoft's Windows operating system to crash, standing travelers in airports and impeding 911 operators. Previously, Chinese hackers gained access to high-profile government email accounts through Microsoft cloud security.
As part of its investigation, the F.T.C. is looking at how Microsoft handles licenses for software used in the cloud, according to the two people.
An earlier statement from the agency about cloud computing specifically cited a comment from NetChoice, an industry group that represents the competing cloud providers Google and Amazon, that accused Microsoft of locking customers into its cloud computing services by changing the terms under which customers could use products like Office. If the customers wanted to use another cloud provider instead of Microsoft, they had to buy additional software licenses and effectively pay a penalty, the group said.
Microsoft has long faced criticism from competitors that it bundles its products in a way that makes it hard for rivals to compete.
Regulators in the European Union said this year that Microsoft had violated its antitrust rules when it packaged Teams, a productivity tool that allows co-workers in remote locations to speak to each other, with Office tools like Excel and Word.
The F.T.C. is also investigating Microsoft's investments and conduct in its A.I. business, said the two people familiar with the inquiry. In addition to working with OpenAI, which makes the ChatGPT chatbot, Microsoft has woven A.I. into many of its products, including its Bing search engine.
But regulators are putting A.I. under a microscope. The F.T.C. and the Justice Department reached a deal over the summer to split up responsibility for looking at issues regarding the fast-growing technology. The F.T.C. received authority over Microsoft and OpenAI while the Justice Department agreed to look at Nvidia, the most prominent manufacturer of computer chips used to run generative A.I. programs.
In January, the F.T.C. also started a broad inquiry into strategic partnerships between tech giants and A.I. start-ups, including Microsoft's investment in OpenAI. That partnership has raised questions about whether it was structured to allow Microsoft to avoid a regulatory review.
Some in Silicon Valley think the move came too late to keep A.I. competitive.
"As always, the regulators are experts in shutting the barn door after the horses have bolted," said Venky Ganesan, an investment partner at Menlo Ventures, which funds a wide range of start-ups, including those in A.I.
Mike Isaac contributed reporting.
Mike Isaac contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B2.

Subject: Cybersecurity; Antitrust; Software; Computer & video games; Artificial intelligence; Cloud computing; Startups

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Artificial intelligence Startups

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/27/technology/microsoft-ftc-antitrust.html

Title: F.T.C. Antitrust Inquiry Targets Microsoft:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 29, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3133864216

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/f-t-c-antitrust-inquiry-targets-microsoft/docview/3133864216/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Critics See Unanswered Questions on Law: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Zhuang, Yan

Publication info: Zhuang, Yan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/critics-see-unanswered-questions-on-law/docview/3133864176/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Critics say big questions remain not only about how the new law will be enforced, but also about whether the ban will really protect young people.
Australia has passed a law to prevent children under 16 from creating accounts on social media platforms.
The bill, which the government calls a "world leading" move to protect young people online, was approved in the Senate on Thursday with support from both of the country's major parties. The lower house of Parliament had passed it earlier in the week.
"This is about protecting young people -- not punishing or isolating them," said Michelle Rowland, Australia's communications minister. She cited exposure to content about drug abuse, eating disorders and violence as some of the harms children can encounter online.
The legislation has broad support among Australians, and some parental groups have been vocal advocates. But it has faced backlash from an unlikely alliance of tech giants, human rights groups and social media experts.
Critics say there are major unanswered questions about how the law will be enforced, how users' privacy will be protected and, fundamentally, whether the ban will actually protect children.
What's in the law?
The law requires social media platforms to take "reasonable steps" to verify the age of users and prohibit those under 16 from opening accounts.
It does not specify which platforms the ban will cover -- that will be decided later -- but the government has named TikTok, Facebook, Snapchat, Reddit, Instagram and X as sites it is likely to include.
Three broad categories of platforms will be exempt: messaging apps (like WhatsApp and Facebook's Messenger Kids); gaming platforms; and services that provide educational content, including YouTube. Those 15 and under will also still be able to access platforms that let users see some content without registering for an account, like TikTok, Facebook and Reddit.
Ms. Rowland, the communications minister, said the restriction on creating accounts, rather than on content more broadly, would mitigate harms associated with online life -- like "persistent notifications and alerts" that could affect young people's sleep and ability to focus -- while limiting the law's effect on the broader population. And supporters of the ban say that delaying children's exposure to the many pressures of social media would allow them the time to develop a more "secure identity," while taking pressure off parents to police their children's online activity.
But digital media experts and some parental groups have said that the patchwork nature of which platforms will and won't be included in the ban makes it unclear what exactly it is meant to protect children from.
A more effective approach would be to address the problem at its root by requiring social media companies to do a better job of moderating and removing harmful content, said Lisa Given, a professor of information sciences at RMIT University in Melbourne.
The new law "does not protect children against potential harms on social media," Professor Given said. "In fact, it could create other problems by excluding young people from helpful and useful information, as well as opening up a number of privacy concerns for all Australians."
How will it be enforced?
That's not yet entirely clear. The bill states that social media companies must take reasonable steps to assess users' ages, but the platforms are left to decide how to do that. Those that don't comply could be fined up to 49.5 million Australian dollars (about $ 32 million).
In a measure that was added in response to privacy concerns, the law states that providing a government-issued identity document cannot be the only option social media platforms give users for verifying their age.
Other methods the government has suggested include so-called age assurance technologies, like using a facial scan to determine a user's approximate age, or estimating it based on online behavior.
Some of those technologies are already being tried. Facebook, for example, is teaching A.I. to estimate users' ages by looking at things like the birthday messages they receive. The Australian government is conducting its own trial of such tools, and the results will inform how it defines the "reasonable steps" that social media platforms must take.
But Daniel Angus, the director of the Digital Media Research Centre at the Queensland University of Technology, said it was unrealistic for the government to base its law, even in part, on that kind of technology, which is often driven by A.I., largely still in development and in no way foolproof. He added that "there are huge, huge privacy concerns around these, huge tracking concerns. All of this allows, in some way, the ability to track users online."
What has the response been?
Polls show that the majority of Australians favor the ban. Parental groups have been broadly supportive -- although some say the law does not go far enough and should cover more platforms.
Some parents who blame social media for their children's deaths have been particularly vocal campaigners for a ban, such as Kelly O'Brien, who said that her 12-year-old daughter, Charlotte, died by suicide after experiencing bullying on and off social media.
"Giving our kids these phones, we're giving them weapons, we're giving them the world at their fingertips," Ms. O'Brien told an Australian news outlet.
Social media companies have criticized the law. Elon Musk, the owner of X, said on the platform that it "seems like a backdoor way to control access to the internet by all Australians."
Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, said the proposal "overlooks the practical reality of age assurance technology, as well as the views of a majority of mental health and youth safety organizations in the country."
(LinkedIn argued that it should not fall within the scope of the ban because, in part, it "simply does not have content interesting and appealing to minors.")
Some commentators have described the ban as performative. "The primary use of this legislation -- let's not pretend otherwise -- is to make it look like our Parliament is taking a stand," Annabel Crabb, a top journalist at Australia's national broadcaster, wrote.
Human rights groups have also raised concerns.
Photograph In Sydney this month. The Australian government has called the legislation a "world leading" move to protect young people online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GRAY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A9.

Subject: Bans; Legislation; Children & youth; Privacy; Human rights; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Australia

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/28/world/australia/australia-social-media-ban.html

Title: Criti cs See Unanswered Questions on Law:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.9

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 29, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3133864176

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/critics-see-unanswered-questions-on-law/docview/3133864176/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Billionaire Donors to Democrats Lick Their Wounds and Ponder Future: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billionaire-donors-democrats-lick-their-wounds/docview/3133556753/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In the weeks after Election Day, one of the biggest donors in the Democratic Party, the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, has considered what would once have been unthinkable for a billionaire who often talks about his patriotism.
Leaving the United States.
Mr. Hoffman, who has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on politics over the last few years, has told friends and allies that he is weighing a move overseas, according to three people with knowledge of the talks who insisted on anonymity to discuss private conversations.
Mr. Hoffman, who declined to comment through a spokeswoman, has helped pay for some of the most aggressive private litigation against Donald J. Trump, and he is worried about retribution from a president who has promised to go after his political opponents, including major Democratic donors.
While Mr. Hoffman's reaction is dramatic -- and it's unclear how much moving abroad would protect him or his assets from Mr. Trump's wrath -- he is hardly alone in a liberal big-money world still stunned by Vice President Kamala Harris's defeat.
Several major donors or their advisers have privately floated the idea of moving abroad, while many others are squinting apprehensively at the future -- or trying to shape it. Some are distributing memos meant to guide the postmortem analysis for Democrats, beginning to kick around ideas for new media companies or imploring their peers not to let liberal fund-raising dry up.
All of that agita and nervous energy congealed last week in the lobby of the Salamander Hotel in Washington, where the typically sedate biannual meeting of the Democracy Alliance, a network of major liberal donors, became a four-day group therapy session.
Dejected Democrats debated what happened at early-morning breakfasts and evening drinks around a firepit on the sidelines of the conference, the first gathering of its type since the election. The lobby was buzzing as Democratic donors, operatives and interlopers caught up with friends.
Still, two attendees said unprompted that the scene felt like a "funeral."
"People are kind of shellshocked -- and trying to figure out what happened," Steve Silberstein, a software entrepreneur who has donated millions to Democrats over the last decade, said in an interview at the gathering. "People are trying to adjust to reality and plot out a path forward."
Defiance from a Soros scion
Relatively few major donors came to the meeting of the Democracy Alliance, which has largely been supplanted by other donor networks. Its gatherings are now most commonly attended by strategists and officials from philanthropic foundations and unions, as opposed to billionaires themselves.
Those who do join get lots of attention: Karla Jurvetson, a major progressive donor, dispensed hugs to well-wishers before waiting for a drink at the bar to bring to her meeting with Senator Laphonza Butler of California. Two wealthy donors who are close friends of Ms. Harris, the couple Wayne Jordan and Quinn Delaney, held court at a happy-hour scene.
But the most eyeballs were trained on Alex Soros, a son of George Soros, the liberal world's most famous donor and a founding backer of the Democracy Alliance. The younger Mr. Soros now controls his 94-year-old father's philanthropic empire, and his decision to attend was warmly received. On one afternoon he was nestled on an oversize couch, spending 45 minutes talking with Patrick Gaspard, the former head of the Soros family's foundation.
Mr. Soros, a 39-year-old history Ph.D., acknowledged in a brief interview the widespread worry of some Democrats that the party's donors might withdraw from politics.
"I'm always concerned about that," he said. But was he still committed to progressive giving after Mr. Trump's victory? "Of course," he said as he walked to a black S.U.V. waiting to whisk him away. "Have I not made that clear?"
Mr. Soros also said he would not be intimidated by Mr. Trump, who has verbally attacked the Soros family for years, calling the president-elect and his allies "bullies."
Behind closed doors, Mr. Soros was a touch more judgmental toward some Democrats. At an evening celebration of his father, Alex Soros suggested that Barack Obama should have listened more to his father. George Soros had a tense relationship with Mr. Obama, but his son called upon the close relationship that Franklin D. Roosevelt had with a finance titan of his day, Bernard Baruch, as the model of how they could have worked together.
"I think if he was taken more seriously, some of the problems that America still deals with today would not be here and we'd be on more stable footing," Alex Soros said of his father, according to two people with knowledge of his remarks. But he also encouraged Democrats to buck up: "I really think that we should honor my father's wisdom today by not letting ourselves be defeated."
Second-guessing of Democratic strategy
While Alex Soros has called Mr. Trump a "super candidate" who could not have been defeated, other Democratic donors are more critical of the party's decisions.
Many of them -- joined notably by some Harris campaign officials -- have taken aim at Future Forward, the main pro-Democratic super PAC. Others have privately wondered whether there should have been better coordination among major givers. Many conversations at the Democracy Alliance touched on a need for liberals to rebuild their media ecosystem, with the podcaster Joe Rogan often coming up.
Almost every Democratic donor urged patience on "hot takes" about the election until more data about voters emerges next year.
And yet the debate rages -- not just at the Salamander but in private Signal chats and email threads.
Tory Gavito, a co-founder of a group called Way to Win that focuses on donors and voters of color, expressed nervousness about Democratic infighting in a memo this month to her donors and allies.
"History has taught me that there will be leaders who will read our analysis and may disagree," Ms. Gavito said. "Instead of engaging in healthy debate to forge new alliances, they will break off and build on their own." She added, "This is not a time to allow factions to grow within the anti-MAGA majority."
Others have a different view. Seth London, an adviser to some of the Democratic Party's biggest donors, wrote a private memo addressed to "Discouraged Democrats" arguing that the party should "begin with a complete rejection of race- and group-based identity politics."
The sweeping four-page memo, obtained by The New York Times and earlier reported by Politico, was both widely forwarded and a source of controversy in Democratic circles.
"Democrats have increasingly focused on the priorities of core party activists over the common voters we claim to represent," wrote Mr. London, who has spent the last three weeks working with other Democratic strategists to build what he envisions as a "a party within the party" of media companies, donors and advocacy groups that support charismatic, moderate officeholders.
Dmitri Mehlhorn, another influential adviser to top Democratic donors who formerly helped guide Mr. Hoffman himself, had a darker, more nihilistic takeaway. Two days after Election Day, he wrote an email to his network saying that "The Second American Republic (1868-2024) is over." He said that "the fact that the Second American Republic existed for 150 years is itself extraordinary. But like the 2024 election, it is now history."
Mr. Mehlhorn, who has worked full time in politics since 2017, said he was halting that work. "It is time to move forward and let go of the past," he wrote in the email. "I look forward to building the kind of world that the Enlightenment era offers, despite America's decision." He went on, "I'm joining what I call the Archipelago of Light, by which I mean all of the humans in the world living under enlightenment principles."
On Tuesday, he sent a second note suggesting he was largely giving up on American politics. "With federal power dominated by anti-Enlightenment forces, our focus will shift to supporting humanist ideals globally," he said.
Mr. Mehlhorn's arrival into politics typified Silicon Valley's increased influence among Democratic donors. These tech billionaires stormed into big-money circles after Mr. Trump's victory in 2016, and many Democratic fund-raisers have voiced anxiety about whether they remain energetic about funding liberal projects after Ms. Harris's loss.
Keeping these Silicon Valley donors from retreating is particularly important at a time when many Democratic fund-raisers worry that they have not attracted enough new major donors during the Biden era.
One tech billionaire, the eBay founder Pierre Omidyar, started a philanthropy in 2014 called Democracy Fund, which recently sent a private memo to allies expressing urgency to protect the vulnerable. "Donors should stand strong and surge dollars now," reads the memo, obtained by The Times.
'Grim, but determined'
Many Democrats expect money to be somewhat tight for now, and layoffs have begun at several entities. One group that thrived after Mr. Trump's 2016 election, Run for Something, announced this month that it was laying off employees because of the tougher fund-raising climate.
"While the presidential campaign and its allied organizations raised more than a billion dollars, the rising tide didn't lift all boats," Amanda Litman, the group's co-founder, said in its announcement. "We know that, much like in 2023, we weren't alone among our partners in having fund-raising challenges this year."
Leah Greenberg, a founder of the group Indivisible, another donor darling of the post-2016 anti-Trump movement, described progressive donors at the Democracy Alliance gathering as "grim, but determined."
"Nobody's checking out or stepping back," she said.
The hope from more optimistic liberal donors and fund-raisers is that Mr. Trump's actions as president will eventually motivate Democratic megadonors. Defeats, they note, can focus the mind: Democrats formed the Democracy Alliance after John Kerry's crushing loss in 2004.
Todd Schulte, who runs Fwd.US, an outside group focused on immigration and criminal justice, encouraged a quick pick-me-up.
"Taking a couple deep breaths is good," said Mr. Schulte, who is close with donors in the tech industry. "Not taking a long nap though -- that's what we want to avoid."
Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.
Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.
Photograph Optimistic liberal donors and fund-raisers hope President-elect Donald J. Trump's actions will motivate Democratic megadonors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIERNEY L. CROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A13.

Subject: Fund raising; Age of Enlightenment; Political activism; Presidential elections; Democracy; Voters; Debates; Political parties

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Soros, George

Company / organization: Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/27/us/politics/democratic-donors-reid-hoffman-democracy-alliance.html

Title: Billionaire Donors to Democrats Lick Their Wounds and Ponder Future:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 28, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3133556753

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/billionaire-donors-democrats-lick-their-wounds/docview/313 3556753/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What’s a Democratic Billionaire to Do Now?

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-s-democratic-billionaire-do-now/docview/3133595421/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

WASHINGTON — In the weeks after Election Day, one of the biggest donors in the Democratic Party, LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, has considered what would once have been unthinkable for a billionaire who often talks about his patriotism.
Leaving the United States.
Hoffman, who has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on politics over the past few years, has told friends and allies that he is weighing a move overseas, according to three people with knowledge of the talks who insisted on anonymity to discuss private conversations.
Hoffman, who declined to comment through a spokesperson, has helped pay for some of the most aggressive private litigation against Donald Trump, and he is worried about retribution from a president who has promised to go after his political opponents, including major Democratic donors.
While Hoffman’s reaction is dramatic — and it’s unclear how much moving abroad would protect him or his assets from Trump’s wrath — he is hardly alone in a liberal big-money world still stunned by Vice President Kamala Harris’ defeat.
Several major donors or their advisers have privately floated the idea of moving abroad, while many others are squinting apprehensively at the future — or trying to shape it. Some are distributing memos meant to guide the postmortem analysis for Democrats, beginning to kick around ideas for new media companies or imploring their peers not to let liberal fundraising dry up.
All of that agita and nervous energy congealed last week in the lobby of the Salamander Hotel in Washington, where the typically sedate biannual meeting of the Democracy Alliance, a network of major liberal donors, became a four-day group therapy session.
Dejected Democrats debated what happened at early-morning breakfasts and evening drinks around a firepit on the sidelines of the conference, the first gathering of its type since the election. The lobby was buzzing as Democratic donors, operatives and interlopers caught up with friends.
Still, two attendees said unprompted that the scene felt like a “funeral.”
“People are kind of shellshocked — and trying to figure out what happened,” Steve Silberstein, a software entrepreneur who has donated millions to Democrats over the last decade, said in an interview at the gathering. “People are trying to adjust to reality and plot out a path forward.”
Defiance From a Soros Scion
Relatively few major donors came to the meeting of the Democracy Alliance, which has largely been supplanted by other donor networks. Its gatherings are now most commonly attended by strategists and officials from philanthropic foundations and unions, as opposed to billionaires themselves.
Those who do join get lots of attention: Karla Jurvetson, a major progressive donor, dispensed hugs to well-wishers before waiting for a drink at the bar to bring to her meeting with Sen. Laphonza Butler of California. Two wealthy donors who are close friends of Harris, the couple Wayne Jordan and Quinn Delaney, held court at a happy-hour scene.
But the most eyeballs were trained on Alex Soros, a son of George Soros, the liberal world’s most famous donor and a founding backer of the Democracy Alliance. Alex Soros now controls his 94-year-old father’s philanthropic empire, and his decision to attend was warmly received. On one afternoon he was nestled on an oversize couch, spending 45 minutes talking with Patrick Gaspard, the former head of the Soros family’s foundation.
Alex Soros, a 39-year-old with a doctorate in history, acknowledged in a brief interview the widespread worry of some Democrats that the party’s donors might withdraw from politics.
“I’m always concerned about that,” he said. But was he still committed to progressive giving after Trump’s victory? “Of course,” he said as he walked to a black SUV waiting to whisk him away. “Have I not made that clear?”
Soros also said he would not be intimidated by Trump, who has verbally attacked the Soros family for years, calling the president-elect and his allies “bullies.”
Behind closed doors, Soros was a touch more judgmental toward some Democrats. At an evening celebration of his father, Alex Soros suggested that Barack Obama should have listened more to his father. George Soros had a tense relationship with Obama, but his son called upon the close relationship that Franklin D. Roosevelt had with a finance titan of his day, Bernard Baruch, as the model of how they could have worked together.
“I think if he was taken more seriously, some of the problems that America still deals with today would not be here and we’d be on more stable footing,” Alex Soros said of his father, according to two people with knowledge of his remarks. But he also encouraged Democrats to buck up: “I really think that we should honor my father’s wisdom today by not letting ourselves be defeated.”
Second-Guessing of Democratic Strategy
While Alex Soros has called Trump a “super candidate” who could not have been defeated, other Democratic donors are more critical of the party’s decisions.
Many of them — joined notably by some Harris campaign officials — have taken aim at Future Forward, the main pro-Democratic super political action committee. Others have privately wondered whether there should have been better coordination among major givers. Many conversations at the Democracy Alliance touched on a need for liberals to rebuild their media ecosystem, with podcaster Joe Rogan often coming up.
Almost every Democratic donor urged patience on “hot takes” about the election until more data about voters emerges next year.
And yet the debate rages — not just at the Salamander but in private Signal chats and email threads.
Tory Gavito, a co-founder of a group called Way to Win that focuses on donors and voters of color, expressed nervousness about Democratic infighting in a memo this month to her donors and allies.
“History has taught me that there will be leaders who will read our analysis and may disagree,” Gavito said. “Instead of engaging in healthy debate to forge new alliances, they will break off and build on their own.” She added, “This is not a time to allow factions to grow within the anti-MAGA majority.”
Others have a different view. Seth London, an adviser to some of the Democratic Party’s biggest donors, wrote a private memo addressed to “Discouraged Democrats” arguing that the party should “begin with a complete rejection of race- and group-based identity politics.”
The sweeping four-page memo, obtained by The New York Times and earlier reported by Politico, was both widely forwarded and a source of controversy in Democratic circles.
“Democrats have increasingly focused on the priorities of core party activists over the common voters we claim to represent,” wrote London, who has spent the last three weeks working with other Democratic strategists to build what he envisions as “a party within the party” of media companies, donors and advocacy groups that support charismatic, moderate officeholders.
Dmitri Mehlhorn, another influential adviser to top Democratic donors who formerly helped guide Hoffman himself, had a darker, more nihilistic takeaway. Two days after Election Day, he wrote an email to his network saying that “The Second American Republic (1868-2024) is over.” He said that “the fact that the Second American Republic existed for 150 years is itself extraordinary. But like the 2024 election, it is now history.”
Mehlhorn, who has worked full time in politics since 2017, said he was halting that work. “It is time to move forward and let go of the past,” he wrote in the email. “I look forward to building the kind of world that the Enlightenment era offers, despite America’s decision.” He went on, “I’m joining what I call the Archipelago of Light, by which I mean all of the humans in the world living under enlightenment principles.”
On Tuesday, he sent a second note suggesting he was largely giving up on American politics. “With federal power dominated by anti-Enlightenment forces, our focus will shift to supporting humanist ideals globally,” he said.
Mehlhorn’s arrival into politics typified Silicon Valley’s increased influence among Democratic donors. These tech billionaires stormed into big-money circles after Trump’s victory in 2016, and many Democratic fundraisers have voiced anxiety about whether they remain energetic about funding liberal projects after Harris’ loss.
Keeping these Silicon Valley donors from retreating is particularly important at a time when many Democratic fundraisers worry that they have not attracted enough new major donors during the Biden era.
One tech billionaire, eBay founder Pierre Omidyar, started a philanthropy in 2014 called Democracy Fund, which recently sent a private memo to allies expressing urgency to protect the vulnerable. “Donors should stand strong and surge dollars now,” reads the memo, obtained by the Times.
‘Grim, But Determined’
Many Democrats expect money to be somewhat tight for now, and layoffs have begun at several entities. One group that thrived after Trump’s 2016 election, Run for Something, announced this month that it was laying off employees because of the tougher fundraising climate.
“While the presidential campaign and its allied organizations raised more than a billion dollars, the rising tide didn’t lift all boats,” Amanda Litman, the group’s co-founder, said in its announcement. “We know that, much like in 2023, we weren’t alone among our partners in having fundraising challenges this year.”
Leah Greenberg, a founder of the group Indivisible, another donor darling of the post-2016 anti-Trump movement, described progressive donors at the Democracy Alliance gathering as “grim, but determined.”
“Nobody’s checking out or stepping back,” she said.
The hope from more optimistic liberal donors and fundraisers is that Trump’s actions as president will eventually motivate Democratic megadonors. Defeats, they note, can focus the mind: Democrats formed the Democracy Alliance after John Kerry’s crushing loss in 2004.
Todd Schulte, who runs Fwd.US, an outside group focused on immigration and criminal justice, encouraged a quick pick-me-up.
“Taking a couple deep breaths is good,” said Schulte, who is close with donors in the tech industry. “Not taking a long nap though — that’s what we want to avoid.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fund raising; Political activism; Debates; Political parties; Age of Enlightenment; Political campaigns; Worry; Presidential elections; Democracy; Voters

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala; Trump, Donald J; Soros, George

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: United States; Linkedin Corporation; Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Courts And The Judiciary; Debates (Political); Gaspard, Patrick; Executives And Management (Theory); News And News Media; Polls And Public Opinion; Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Newspapers; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Harris, Kamala D; Omidyar, Pierre M; Butler, Laphonza; Obama, B arack; Democracy (Theory And Philosophy); Philanthropy; Presidential Election Of 2020; Politics And Government; Ebay Inc; Run For Something (Nonprofit); California; Liberalism (Us Politics); Presidential Election Of 2016; Soros, Alexander; Presidential Election Of 2024; Politico, The; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Future Forward Usa Action (Political Organization); Soros, George; United States Politics And Government; Computers And The Internet; Entrepreneurship; Kerry, John; Democratic Party; Indivisible Project; Litman, Amanda; Roosevelt, Franklin Delano; Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; Campaign Finance; New York Times; Beverages; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Democracy Alliance

Title: What’s a Democratic Billionaire to Do Now?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 27, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3133595421

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-s-democratic-billionaire-do-now/docview/3133595421/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fraud Hunters Earn Windfalls Tied to Covid: [National Desk]

Author: Ngo, Madeleine

Publication info: Ngo, Madeleine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fraud-hunters-earn-windfalls-tied-covid/docview/3132478197/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some private citizens are hunting for potential cases of fraud tied to small-business loans. They have earned big payouts -- in some cases, more than $ 1 million.
When J. Bryan Quesenberry first learned that the federal government was sending out hundreds of billions of dollars to help businesses survive during the Covid-19 pandemic, he thought: "There's going to be fraud here. There just has to be."
A few months later, Mr. Quesenberry started sifting through a list of businesses that received Paycheck Protection Program loans, which were intended to help small businesses ravaged by the pandemic continue paying their employees. The Oregon lawyer said he knew businesses were not allowed to receive more than one loan during a single round, so he searched for "double dippers."
He soon found dozens of businesses across the country that appeared to improperly obtain P.P.P. loans. During the summer of 2020, Mr. Quesenberry started suing those firms to try to help the government recover funds.
"It just blows my mind," Mr. Quesenberry said. "That's tax money that comes out of your pocket and that comes out of my pocket."
As federal officials try to retrieve billions in stolen pandemic relief funds, private citizens are scouring public data, company websites and social media pages to help identify potential cases. Those who have filed suits say they are motivated by the desire to root out wrongdoers and expose corporate fraud.
But there is also a strong financial incentive. Under the False Claims Act, private citizens can file lawsuits on behalf of the federal government against those who may have defrauded the United States. If the government recovers funds, those citizens can typically earn between 15 and 30 percent of that amount.
That has allowed some private citizens to earn hundreds of thousands of dollars, or in some cases more than $ 1 million, for chasing pandemic relief fraud.
The practice has stirred up some controversy. Some argue that the provision was meant to encourage whistle-blowers with insider knowledge to come forward. But some private citizens who have filed many suits said they had relied heavily on publicly available information, stitching together evidence they sourced from the internet to build their cases.
The armchair sleuthing highlights how widespread pandemic fraud was and how federal investigators have struggled to keep up with it. In its haste to stave off an economic crisis and provide immediate aid to Americans, Washington distributed billions of dollars with few strings and little oversight. The Small Business Administration's inspector general has estimated that more than $ 200 billion -- or at least 17 percent of the pandemic loans the agency distributed -- was awarded to "potentially fraudulent actors." The majority of P.P.P. loans have been forgiven by the federal government.
While federal investigators have gone after some of the biggest perpetrators of fraud, limited resources have hindered their ability to go after the estimated thousands of people who improperly took government money.
The effort by some private citizens to uncover pandemic fraud has not been warmly received by former Justice Department officials who worry that a deluge of lawsuits that lack insider knowledge could be straining federal resources. Federal officials have to investigate each whistle-blower lawsuit to some extent, though the government ultimately declines to intervene in most suits that are filed.
"I'm concerned about the consequences brought on by this," said Michael Galdo, the former director of Covid-19 fraud enforcement at the Justice Department. "There's a finite amount of resources that the Department of Justice has."
Mr. Galdo, now a counsel at King & Spalding, said he thought private citizens without insider information were "clearly" filing suits for financial reasons.
"They're not saying, 'Send all the money back to the government,"' he said.
It is unclear how many whistle-blower suits have been filed by private citizens who are not insiders, in part because many cases could still be sealed. As of April 1, the Justice Department had opened more than 1,200 civil pandemic fraud matters, including more than 600 "qui tam," or whistle-blower, cases. To date, more than $ 43 million has been awarded to whistle-blowers, according to Justice Department data.
Ethan P. Davis, a former acting assistant attorney general for the Justice Department's civil division, said he worried that some private citizens were finding red flags in the data that "may be completely innocuous."
"I fear that they may mislead the government into thinking that there is a real problem, and that can result in a pretty costly and expensive investigation for a company," said Mr. Davis, now a partner at King & Spalding who has represented companies that have been accused of obtaining fraudulent P.P.P. loans and investigated.
Some private citizens said that it often took hours to investigate leads, and that they were unearthing cases that might otherwise slip through the cracks. Although Mr. Quesenberry said he relied primarily on information available on the internet to build cases, he said it was a time-intensive process that often required combing through government websites, Yelp pages, news articles and LinkedIn profiles. He said he thought he added value because he was pulling together evidence to "paint the picture of fraud."
Mr. Quesenberry has earned more than $ 400,000 from 10 cases that have helped the federal government recover more than $ 3 million, according to a review of documents from U.S. attorney's offices. Mr. Quesenberry said he had been investigating pandemic fraud for about four and a half years and was now working on his cases full time.
The Justice Department declined to comment.
Hefty Settlements
There are several private citizens who are prolific in suing P.P.P. loan borrowers.
In June, the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of California announced that two homeowners associations and two country clubs would pay more than $ 5.8 million to settle allegations that they knowingly submitted false claims to obtain P.P.P. loans. Some of the organizations said in statements that they had applied in good faith and thought they were eligible.
The claims were brought by Wade Riner, who was awarded nearly $ 700,000 as part of the settlement.
Mr. Riner, a real estate investment business owner in Houston, learned that his own homeowners associations in Florida, where he owns property, and "numerous others" had obtained pandemic loans they were ineligible for, according to the complaint. He has since sued dozens of homeowners associations, condominium associations and country clubs across the country. Although he has seen some success in other districts, the federal government has not pursued most of the defendants he has sued.
Mr. Riner declined to comment through his lawyer.
David Abrams, a lawyer in New York, has also brought cases resulting in multimillion-dollar settlements. Mr. Abrams has been awarded more than $ 1.7 million through pandemic fraud-related lawsuits that have resulted in the government's recovering more than $ 17 million, according to a review of documents from U.S. attorney's offices.
Mr. Abrams has filed many lawsuits under GNGH2 Inc., targeting borrowers who had links to China, among other things. He has also filed some suits under his organization, the Zionist Advocacy Center, which he said aimed to do "pro-Israel work in the court system."
In September, the U.S. attorney's office for the District of Columbia announced that Americans for Peace Now, a progressive Jewish nonprofit, had agreed to pay $ 261,890 to settle allegations that it improperly obtained a $ 130,945 P.P.P. loan. In June, the office said the Middle East Institute had also agreed to pay $ 718,558 to settle allegations that it improperly obtained a P.P.P. loan. Mr. Abrams, who sued both groups, accused them of fraudulently certifying that they were not "primarily engaged in political or lobbying activities," according to the complaints.
Hadar Susskind, the president and chief executive of Americans for Peace Now, said officials thought they had qualified for the loan because they did not consider the nonprofit to be a political organization. He said they had settled because it could have been costlier to go to court.
Mr. Susskind said he had never met Mr. Abrams, but he believed the complaint was "very much ideologically motivated" because of the nonprofit's work to promote Israeli-Palestinian peace.
In an email, Mr. Abrams said: "In America these anti-Israel organizations have the right to spin, distort or even outright lie about Israel. However, they do not have the right to subsidize their activities with government monies for which they were not eligible."
Mr. Abrams said he had long done other activist work, including recently representing a Jewish high school student who was the victim of antisemitic bullying. He said that he did not charge fees in those matters, and that the "whistle-blower cases do generate significant revenue so things more or less balance out."
Mr. Abrams declined to comment about lawsuits he has filed under GNGH2 because of "confidentiality concerns."
'A Gold Rush'
There are signs that more people are starting to notice cases that have resulted in big settlements.
Jason Marcus, a partner at Bracker & Marcus, said he had filed about a hundred lawsuits on behalf of four clients who have been investigating pandemic fraud. One of those clients is Sidesolve, a company in San Jose, Calif., that was awarded $ 1 million last year after Empire Roofing and its network of affiliated companies agreed to pay $ 9 million to settle allegations that they falsely certified they were eligible to receive P.P.P. loans. A representative for Empire Roofing said that there "was no fraud," and that the company had settled to resolve the matter quickly.
Mr. Marcus said that after the case was announced last December, he started to get "calls all of the time from people who say, 'How do I do this?"'
"It's like a gold rush," he said.
Mr. Marcus said that he was selective with his clients, though, and that he thoroughly vetted cases before filing suits.
Katy Levinson said she and her two co-founders at Sidesolve used artificial intelligence and other data science tools to analyze a mix of information, including publicly available data and private data they purchase. She said they started to investigate pandemic fraud full time in early 2021.
The future of the whistle-blower provision, though, has come into question. Judge Kathryn Kimball Mizelle of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida recently declared the provision unconstitutional because it allowed private citizens to sue on behalf of the United States without proper appointment. The decision has been appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit.
Jason M. Crawford, a partner at Crowell & Moring, said the case seemed likely to eventually reach the Supreme Court.
"I think the qui tam provisions could receive a lot of scrutiny from the high court," he said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: Investigations; Whistleblowing; Attorneys; Small business loans; Pandemics; Social networks; Homeowners associations; Public prosecutors; Federal government; Settlements & damages; Nonprofit organizations; Fraud; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys Small business loans Social networks

Location: United States--US; Israel

Company / organization: Name: Americans for Peace Now; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/23/us/politics/pandemic-fraud-lawsuits.html

Title: Fraud Hunters Earn Windfalls Tied to Covid:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 25, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132478197

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fraud-hunters-earn-windfalls-tied-covid/docview/3132478197/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Charges Filed In the Death Of a Student At Dartmouth: [National Desk]

Author: Selig, Kate

Publication info: Selig, Kate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/charges-filed-death-student-at-dartmouth/docview/3132478192/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The 20-year-old student died this summer after attending an off-campus party. The fraternity members and sorority were charged with offenses related to providing alcohol to minors.
A Dartmouth College sorority and two fraternity members have been charged with underage alcohol offenses in the death of a 20-year-old student who drowned after attending an off-campus party this summer.
The authorities said the student, Won Jang, attended the party hosted by the sorority Alpha Phi on July 6. Most people at the gathering, including Mr. Jang, were underage and drank alcohol that was provided by members of Mr. Jang's fraternity, Beta Alpha Omega.
Alpha Phi was charged with a misdemeanor for hosting a party where underage drinking occurred, according to a Friday news release from the police department in Hanover, N.H., where Dartmouth's campus is. Two members of Beta Alpha Omega, who are not underage, were each charged with a misdemeanor for supplying alcohol to attendees under 21, the release said.
On the night of the party, several attendees went swimming in the Connecticut River, which runs along Hanover, the police said. Many departed when a heavy rainstorm hit, but Mr. Jang, who his family said could not swim, was left behind.
Mr. Jang was found dead in the river the day after the party, the authorities said. The medical examiner's office determined that the cause of death was drowning, and a toxicology report found that Mr. Jang had a blood alcohol level that indicated he was likely to have been significantly impaired.
Lt. Michael Schibuola of the Hanover Police Department said the police had investigated whether hazing had contributed to Mr. Jang's death but ultimately determined it had not.
Dartmouth immediately suspended Alpha Phi and Beta Alpha Omega and began an internal investigation after Mr. Jang's death, Jana Barnello, a spokeswoman for the school, said in a statement. She said that Greek organizations "have a responsibility to ensure Dartmouth remains a safe, respectful, equitable and inclusive community."
Ms. Barnello added that the school could not comment on individual disciplinary matters. Representatives of the college chapter and national organization of Alpha Phi could not be reached for comment on Sunday. The students who were charged were also not reachable.
Eric Wilson, a lawyer for one of the students, wrote in a statement to the student newspaper, The Dartmouth, that the allegations that his client had provided alcohol to underage individuals "appears to be unrelated to the tragedy that occurred hours later."
He added that his client "was a devoted friend to Won and remains heartbroken over his passing."
At the time of Mr. Jang's death, the fraternity was on alcohol probation after a three-term suspension that lasted through the spring. The sorority had also been on alcohol probation in the fall of 2023, but it was lifted by the time of the party.
Mr. Jang was a biomedical engineering major from Delaware and a member of the class of 2026, according to his memorialized LinkedIn profile. As an undergraduate, he was active in entrepreneurship and research, the profile said. He also mentored international students and was a part of the school's student band scene.
Lydia Jin, who was Mr. Jang's girlfriend, told NBC News after his death that he had aspirations of making a significant impact in the scientific world, perhaps by winning a Nobel Prize or curing Alzheimer's. She said he "was the kindest person that I knew."
Lieutenant Schibuola said that he had met directly with Mr. Jang's family and that they wanted to prevent a similar tragedy from occurring again. He said the police had worked with Dartmouth to improve safety near the river since Mr. Jang's death.
"This is a very tragic event," he said in an interview. "Hopefully the message gets out to members of the Greek community and the college in general that you have to be responsible."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Fraternities & sororities; Drownings; Alcohol; Students; Minors

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/24/us/dartmouth-student-drowning-charges.html

Title: Charges Filed In the Death Of a Student At Dartmouth:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 25, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132478192

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/charges-filed-death-student-at-dartmouth/docview/3132478192/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Investigated Pandemic Fraud, Then Earned Thousands

Author: Ngo, Madeleine

Publication info: Ngo, Madeleine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-investigated-pandemic-fraud-then-earned/docview/3132501534/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

When J. Bryan Quesenberry first learned that the federal government was sending out hundreds of billions of dollars to help businesses survive during the COVID-19 pandemic, he thought: “There’s going to be fraud here. There just has to be.”
A few months later, Quesenberry began sifting through a list of businesses that received Paycheck Protection Program loans, which were intended to help small businesses ravaged by the pandemic continue paying their employees. The Oregon lawyer said he knew businesses were not allowed to receive more than one loan during a single round, so he searched for “double dippers.”
He soon found dozens of businesses across the country that appeared to obtain PPP loans improperly. During the summer of 2020, Quesenberry started suing those firms to try to help the government recover funds.
“It just blows my mind,” Quesenberry said. “That’s tax money that comes out of your pocket and that comes out of my pocket.”
As federal officials try to retrieve billions in stolen pandemic relief funds, private citizens are scouring public data, company websites and social media pages to help identify potential cases. Those who have filed suits say they are motivated by the desire to root out wrongdoers and expose corporate fraud.
But there is also a strong financial incentive. Under the False Claims Act originally enacted in 1863, private citizens can file lawsuits on behalf of the federal government against those who may have defrauded the United States. If the government recovers funds, those citizens can typically earn between 15% and 30% of that amount.
That has allowed some private citizens to earn hundreds of thousands of dollars, or in some cases more than $1 million, for chasing pandemic relief fraud.
The practice has stirred up some controversy. Some argue that the provision was meant to encourage whistleblowers with insider knowledge to come forward. But some private citizens who have filed many suits said they had relied heavily on publicly available information, stitching together evidence they sourced from the internet to build their cases.
The armchair sleuthing highlights how widespread pandemic fraud was and how federal investigators have struggled to keep up with it. In its haste to stave off an economic crisis and provide immediate aid to Americans, Washington distributed billions of dollars with few strings and little oversight. The Small Business Administration’s inspector general has estimated that more than $200 billion — or at least 17% of the pandemic loans the agency distributed — was awarded to “potentially fraudulent actors.” The majority of PPP loans have been forgiven by the federal government.
While federal investigators have gone after some of the biggest perpetrators of fraud, limited resources have hindered their ability to go after the estimated thousands of people who took government money improperly.
The effort by some private citizens to uncover pandemic fraud has not been warmly received by former Justice Department officials who worry that a deluge of lawsuits that lack insider knowledge could be straining federal resources. Federal officials have to investigate each whistleblower lawsuit to some extent, though the government ultimately declines to intervene in most suits that are filed.
“I’m concerned about the consequences brought on by this,” said Michael Galdo, the former director of COVID-19 fraud enforcement at the Justice Department. “There’s a finite amount of resources that the Department of Justice has.”
Galdo, now working as counsel at the King & Spalding law firm in New York, said he thinks private citizens without insider information are “clearly” filing suits for financial reasons.
“They’re not saying, ‘Send all the money back to the government,’” he said.
It is unclear how many whistleblower suits have been filed by private citizens who are not insiders, in part because many cases could still be sealed. As of April 1, the Justice Department had opened more than 1,200 civil pandemic fraud matters, including more than 600 “qui tam,” or whistleblower, cases. To date, more than $43 million has been awarded to whistleblowers, according to Justice Department data.
Ethan P. Davis, a former acting assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s civil division, said he worried that some private citizens were finding red flags in the data that “may be completely innocuous.”
“I fear that they may mislead the government into thinking that there is a real problem, and that can result in a pretty costly and expensive investigation for a company,” said Davis, now a partner at King & Spalding who has represented companies that have been accused of obtaining fraudulent PPP loans and investigated.
Some private citizens said that it often took hours to investigate leads, and that they were unearthing cases that might otherwise slip through the cracks. Although Quesenberry said he relied primarily on information available on the internet to build cases, he said it was a time-intensive process that often required combing through government websites, Yelp pages, news articles and LinkedIn profiles. He said he thought he added value because he was pulling together evidence to “paint the picture of fraud.”
Quesenberry has earned more than $400,000 from 10 cases that have helped the federal government recover more than $3 million, according to a review of documents from U.S. attorney’s offices. Quesenberry said he had been investigating pandemic fraud for about four and a half years and was now working on his cases full time.
The Justice Department declined to comment.
Hefty Settlements
There are several private citizens who are prolific in suing PPP loan borrowers.
In June, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of California announced that two homeowners associations and two country clubs would pay more than $5.8 million to settle allegations that they knowingly submitted false claims to obtain PPP loans. Some of the organizations said in statements that they had applied in good faith and thought they were eligible.
The claims were brought by Wade Riner, a real estate investment business owner in Houston, who was awarded nearly $700,000 as part of the settlement.
Riner learned that his own homeowners associations in Florida, where he owns property, and “numerous others” had obtained pandemic loans they were ineligible for, according to the complaint. He has since sued dozens of homeowners associations, condominium associations and country clubs across the country. Although he has seen some success in other districts, the federal government has not pursued most of the defendants he has sued.
Riner declined to comment through his lawyer.
David Abrams, a lawyer in New York, has also brought cases resulting in multimillion-dollar settlements. Abrams has been awarded more than $1.7 million through pandemic fraud-related lawsuits that have resulted in the government’s recovering more than $17 million, according to a review of documents from U.S. attorney’s offices.
Abrams has filed many lawsuits under GNGH2 Inc., targeting borrowers who had links to China, among other things. He has also filed some suits under his organization, the Zionist Advocacy Center, which he said seeks to do “pro-Israel work in the court system.”
In September, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia announced that Americans for Peace Now, a progressive Jewish nonprofit, had agreed to pay $261,890 to settle allegations that it improperly obtained a $130,945 PPP loan. In June, the office said the Middle East Institute had also agreed to pay $718,558 to settle allegations that it improperly obtained a PPP loan. Abrams, who sued both groups, accused them of fraudulently certifying that they were not “primarily engaged in political or lobbying activities,” according to the complaints.
Hadar Susskind, president and CEO of Americans for Peace Now, said officials thought they had qualified for the loan because they did not consider the nonprofit to be a political organization. He said they had settled because it could have been costlier to go to court.
Susskind said he had never met Abrams, but he believed the complaint was “very much ideologically motivated” because of the nonprofit’s work to promote Israeli-Palestinian peace.
In an email, Abrams said: “In America these anti-Israel organizations have the right to spin, distort or even outright lie about Israel. However, they do not have the right to subsidize their activities with government monies for which they were not eligible.”
Abrams said he had long done other activist work, including recently representing a Jewish high school student who was the victim of antisemitic bullying. He said he did not charge fees in those matters, and that the “whistleblower cases do generate significant revenue, so things more or less balance out.”
Abrams declined to comment about lawsuits he has filed under GNGH2 because of “confidentiality concerns.”
‘A Gold Rush’
There are signs that more people are starting to notice cases that have resulted in big settlements.
Jason Marcus, a partner at the Bracker & Marcus law firm in Atlanta, said he had filed about a hundred lawsuits on behalf of four clients who have been investigating pandemic fraud. One of those clients is Sidesolve, a company in San Jose, California, that was awarded $1 million last year after Empire Roofing and its network of affiliated companies agreed to pay $9 million to settle allegations that they falsely certified they were eligible to receive PPP loans. A representative for Empire Roofing said there “was no fraud,” and that the company had settled to resolve the matter quickly.
Marcus said that after the case was announced last December, he started to get “calls all of the time from people who say, ‘How do I do this?’”
“It’s like a gold rush,” he said.
Marcus said he was selective with his clients, though, and that he thoroughly vetted cases before filing suits.
Katy Levinson said she and her two co-founders at Sidesolve use artificial intelligence and other data science tools to analyze a mix of information, including publicly available data and private data they purchase. She said they started to investigate pandemic fraud full time in early 2021.
The future of the whistleblower provision, though, has come into question. Judge Kathryn Kimball Mizelle of U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida recently declared the provision unconstitutional because it allowed private citizens to sue on behalf of the United States without proper appointment. The decision has been appealed to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta.
Jason M. Crawford, a partner at the Crowell & Moring law firm in New York, said the case seemed likely to eventually reach the Supreme Court.
“I think the qui tam provisions could receive a lot of scrutiny from the high court,” he said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Investigations; Whistleblowing; Attorneys; Small business loans; Law firms; Pandemics; Social networks; Homeowners associations; Public prosecutors; Federal government; Settlements & damages; Coronavirus Aid Relief & Economic Security Act 2020-US; Nonprofit organizations; Fraud; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys Small business loans Law firms Social networks Coronavirus Aid Relief & Economic Security Act 2020-US

Location: New York; United States--US; Israel

Company / organization: Name: Department of Justice; NAICS: 922130; Name: Americans for Peace Now; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Houston (Tex); United States; California; Courts And The Judiciary; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Decisions And Verdicts; Peace Now; Anti Semitism; Compensation For Damages (Law); Oregon; Small Business; Florida; Small Business Administration; Washington (State); Linkedin Corporation; Justice Department; Israel; Appeals Courts (Us); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Nonprofit Organizations; Middle East Institute; Yelp; Wages And Salaries; United States Attorneys; Computers And The Internet; Middle E ast; Frauds And Swindling; Law And Legislation; Legal Profession; Mizelle, Kathryn Kimball; Inspectors General; Atlanta (Ga); Country Clubs; Federal Aid (Us); Coen, Ethan; New York State; Homeowners' Associations; Robberies And Thefts; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Coronavirus Aid, Relief, And Economic Security Act (2020); Supreme Court (Us); King &; Spalding; Whistle Blowers; San Jose (Calif); Ethics And Official Misconduct; China

Title: They Investigated Pandemic Fraud, Then Earned Thousands

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 24, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132501534

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-investigated-pandemic-fraud-then-earned/docview/3132501534/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Educator Held On Allegations Of Sex Abuse In California: [National Desk]

Author: Goldstein, Dana

Publication info: Goldstein, Dana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/educator-held-on-allegations-sex-abuse-california/docview/3132223914/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: David Braff was first accused of misconduct years ago but has since held a series of school jobs. The authorities are investigating the possibility of additional victims.
A Los Angeles assistant principal was arrested on Friday and charged with molesting eight children between 2015 and 2019, while he was working as an elementary school counselor in Ventura County.
The defendant, David Lane Braff Jr., 42, of Thousand Oaks, Calif., is accused of molesting children aged 6 to 10 in an office at McKevett Elementary School in the Santa Paula Unified School District, roughly 70 miles west of Los Angeles.
The charges emerged out of a cold case sexual abuse unit, Ventura County District Attorney Erik Nasarenko said. He noted that officials at McKevett Elementary had reached out to authorities at the time of the alleged incidents.
Nevertheless, Mr. Braff has held several jobs in public education since and has also volunteered in a number of programs for children.
Mr. Nasarenko described an "extensive search for the possibility of other victims at other school sites and locations."
"This shakes the very foundation of the notion of a school site as a safe learning environment," he said.
Mr. Braff is being held on $ 3 million bail and will be arraigned on Monday.
Carol Braff, Mr. Braff's mother, said that "of course" he denied the charges. "He's worked with children his whole life. He's never been in trouble," she said in a brief phone call.
In a written statement, the Santa Paula school district said it had been aware of sexual abuse allegations against Mr. Braff since 2018, and had reported him then to law enforcement and begun an internal investigation. It is unclear why the earlier accusations did not result in charges.
On Saturday, the school district did not respond to questions about whether it had tried to inform Mr. Braff's subsequent employers of the accusations against him.
According to a profile on LinkedIn that matches the name, likeness and work history of the suspect, Mr. Braff left his Santa Paula job in 2019, and then worked for a charter school network.
He eventually left that position as well, and was most recently an assistant principal and counselor at Ingenium Charter Middle School in Los Angeles.
Ingenium Schools did not respond to questions about Mr. Braff on Saturday. In a statement to NBC Los Angeles, Ingenium Charter Middle School said it had been "devastated to learn of the recent allegations" against him, and had taken "immediate actions to ensure the safety of its students."
In every state, teachers have to pass criminal background checks before being hired. But advocates for children have long warned about a practice known as "passing the trash," in which school staff members accused of sexual misconduct, but not criminally charged, are able to pursue new positions without the disclosure of allegations or workplace disciplinary actions against them.
The Every Student Succeeds Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2015, sought to end that practice. It required states to adopt laws preventing schools from aiding individuals in getting new education jobs, if there is probable cause to believe the employee had engaged in sexual misconduct.
But those regulations have not always been strictly followed. According to a 2022 report from the federal Department of Education, only 10 states required school job applicants to disclose any history of investigations related to sexual misconduct. Eighteen states required current or past employers to disclose such matters to prospective employers.
California only recently strengthened such protections.
In late September, Gov. Gavin Newsom signed a bill requiring school job applicants to disclose the names of all of their previous school employers. It also requires hiring schools to contact those employers and ask about allegations of egregious misconduct, and requires past employers to provide reports of investigations and disciplinary actions.
That law was not yet in effect when Mr. Braff was hired for his most recent position.
The LinkedIn profile states that Mr. Braff received a "counselor of the month" award in Santa Paula, and that he had experience working in after-school programs and youth recreation. "I look to continue in the school counseling career path," the profile says. "I have great communication, love working with people and students, and problem solving skills as well."
Jack Begg contributed research.
Jack Begg contributed research.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A29.

Subject: Elementary schools; School principals; Employers; Criminal investigations; Middle schools; Sexual abuse; Applicants; Education; School districts

Business indexing term: Subject: Employers Applicants

Location: United States--US; Santa Paula California; Ventura County California; California; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/23/us/california-assistant-principal-sexual-misconduct.html

Title: Educator Held On Allegations Of Sex Abuse In California:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.29

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 24, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132223914

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/educator-held-on-allegations-sex-abuse-california/docview/3132223914/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

First Table Tennis, And Then a Shift To Shell Games: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Pilon, Mary

Publication info: Pilon, Mary. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-table-tennis-then-shift-shell-games/docview/3132223868/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Kimberlie Reed met Michael Hyatt on Tinder in 2017, she was in awe.
On their first date, after several months of exchanging messages, they sat at a high top table near the bar at a Sacramento BJ's. Mr. Hyatt, his head shaved and wearing a crisp button-down shirt, regaled her with stories of representing his native Jamaica in table tennis at the 1992 and 1996 Olympic Games.
He was magnetic and accomplished and, to her mind, it made perfect sense that in the June 2014 issue of USA Table Tennis's monthly magazine he had been called "the Usain Bolt of Table Tennis."
Over the ensuing months, the two began a romantic relationship. Mr. Hyatt spoke to Ms. Reed at length about what he said was his passion project: PongNation, a table tennis club akin to SPIN, the Susan Sarandon-connected franchise started in New York in 2009. He walked Ms. Reed through an empty storefront in an industrial pocket of nearby Roseville that he said would soon be PongNation's home, describing franchise agreements he had reached with Puma and Starbucks. By co-signing business loans, opening credit cards and adding some of her own cash, she, too, became part of it.
"Next thing I know," Ms. Reed said, "he fled the country."
Dozens of interviews, court records, text messages, financial statements and other documents reviewed by The New York Times show that Ms. Reed was hardly the first person to believe in Mr. Hyatt and, soon after, regret it.
Efforts to reach Mr. Hyatt, 54, for comment were unsuccessful. Various cellphone and WhatsApp numbers associated with him in the United States and abroad have been disconnected. He did not reply to messages sent to three different email addresses and various social media profiles he has used over the years.
His brother, when reached via Facebook Messenger, replied: "Zelle me 2k and I'll tell you anything you want to know." (The New York Times does not pay people it interviews for news articles.) Mr. Hyatt's mother, when reached by phone in August, said that she hadn't spoken to him in "years" before remarking, "I don't know if he's dead or alive."
Then she hung up.
A Reputation Begins to Tarnish
Many of Mr. Hyatt's personal and business relationships were built on what people did not know about him.
Despite the impression he may have given, Mr. Hyatt's Olympic career was not illustrious. He finished 33rd in men's singles at the 1992 Games in Barcelona, and 49th at the 1996 Atlanta Games, along with a 25th-place finish in men's doubles.
But he remained a known, and liked, presence in the niche, close-knit table tennis community, where the vast majority of competitors work multiple jobs while pursuing their athletic dreams. In the 1990s, the circuit involved tournaments at recreation centers and church basements, and a hodgepodge of car-pooling and last-minute lodging. Some athletes described how Mr. Hyatt would be the first to lend a couch for crashing during tournaments or paddles or apparel.
Feelings shifted in February 1996, when Mr. Hyatt hosted a tournament in Georgia and failed to pay $ 15,000 in prize money, Christian Lillieroos, a coach who knew Mr. Hyatt, said.
"It came as a big surprise to me," Mr. Lillieroos said. "I couldn't believe he was doing it."
Mr. Hyatt ran into other trouble. He was not permitted to travel with the Jamaican national team in 1999 "due to poor disciplinary records," according to a report in the Jamaican publication The Gleaner, which noted that he had been sent home early from the Central American and Caribbean Games "because of misbehavior."
Mr. Hyatt kept busy in other ways. He started a company called EJAM IT Solutions in December 1998, according to a registration with the state of Georgia, where he had put down roots.
Four years later, at least five schools in Jamaica had ordered 150 computers from EJAM and made down payments of several thousand dollars. But, according to a report in The Gleaner, the computers never arrived, and Mr. Hyatt was nowhere to be found.
In 2003, Mr. Hyatt was charged in Cobb County, Ga., with a felony after being accused of floating a bad check. In December 2003, Mr. Hyatt also faced a charge of fraud, according to court records. That year, the bad check case was dismissed and he paid a restitution tied to the fraud case.
In 2005, Mr. Hyatt filed a change of address with the court. He was moving to California.
'He's an Empty Shell'
In Northern California, Mr. Hyatt met women online, told them of his Olympic past, then began to pitch them his idea for a ping pong facility. Some declined to invest, while others took out several thousand dollars in loans or co-signed loans with Mr. Hyatt, according to interviews with women, friends and colleagues who knew him at the time.
Sandra Blanco met Mr. Hyatt on a dating website in 2005. "I was very impressed with him," Ms. Blanco said. "I'm from Nicaragua, we had some cultural similarities and bonded really well."
Ms. Blanco said that she often saw Mr. Hyatt on the phone and on his laptop. "He always seemed like he was working two jobs," she said. He often paid for meals, movies, groceries and other shared expenses. "I didn't lose a dollar with Michael," she said of their early courtship.
After about a year, they moved in together. But six months after she gave birth to their daughter in 2007, and after two years together, Ms. Blanco and Mr. Hyatt separated.
Ms. Blanco was granted full custody of their daughter. Mr. Hyatt was ordered to pay monthly child support payments of $ 1,200, which he did until 2017. For reasons that are unclear to Ms. Blanco, the payments stopped and resumed only in fall 2023. The payments are made via direct deposit, and neither she nor her daughter have had any contact with Mr. Hyatt in more than a decade.
"Lots of things are missing from him," Ms. Blanco said. "He's an empty shell."
In 2015, Mr. Hyatt was barred permanently from USA Table Tennis because of "sexual misconduct," according to the U.S. Center for SafeSport, the nonprofit organization directed by Congress to handle accusations of misconduct in Olympic and Paralympic sports. (As a matter of policy, SafeSport does not disclose details of its cases.)
Yet Mr. Hyatt continued to be involved in the sport, competing for Jamaica in several tournaments, including the world championships in Malaysia in 2016. In an Instagram post, he celebrated Jamaica for winning a bronze medal. However, the team finished 75th.
On Dec. 30, 2016, he announced his retirement from the sport.
"Life changes," he said at the time. "And you have different motivations."
His relationship with Ms. Blanco over, Mr. Hyatt kept dating. Jodi Cummins was working two jobs and driving an Uber to make ends meet when Mr. Hyatt took her on a first date to an elegant dinner in Napa. A single mother living in Sacramento, Ms. Cummins was a "bit cautious" when they began seeing each other but was moved one weekend when Mr. Hyatt took her to Trader Joe's and picked up the bill and filled the gas tank of her car. "He was flashy but generous," she said.
Soon, Mr. Hyatt told her that he was looking at homes closer to her in Sacramento. "I was really excited," she said.
DeMylon Vinson, a real estate broker, gave Mr. Hyatt and Ms. Cummins a tour of a four-bedroom, two-bathroom, 1,873-square-foot home in Elk Grove, south of Sacramento. Ms. Cummins thought that she was looking at a home Mr. Hyatt alone would inhabit but, without her knowledge, Mr. Hyatt said in emails to Mr. Vinson that he and Ms. Cummins would be moving in together.
Despite those messages, Mr. Vinson said that Mr. Hyatt then "just disappeared."
One night around the same time, Mr. Hyatt, who was staying with Ms. Cummins because he said a home he was renting nearby wasn't ready to move into, didn't return home when she was expecting him. She learned that Mr. Hyatt had been arrested, apparently over a rental car he had not returned. In going through his paperwork, text messages and communications with others, she learned that Mr. Hyatt had been fired from his job and hadn't paid his rent. He was also receiving unemployment payments and an EBT card at her address and pursuing other women online.
A statement Ms. Cummins reviewed for a credit card that she said had been taken out in her name without her knowledge revealed that, on at least one occasion, he had gone to the movies instead of an office job during the day.
She tried to end things. She filed a restraining order, presenting a judge with evidence that included a text message from Mr. Hyatt threatening to kill her cat. She, her son and the cat moved in with a family member.
Ms. Cummins soon returned to her house and found Mr. Hyatt there. She called the police. "I stood on the front lawn and watched the sheriff carry him out," she said. "It was a nightmare."
Mr. Vinson, who was unaware of what had been transpiring, said he was surprised when several months later, Mr. Hyatt reached out to say he was looking for a house again, this time with his new partner, Elizabeth Toro, a blackjack dealer who also lived in the Sacramento area.
Ms. Toro and Mr. Hyatt had their first date in February 2018, and "he was over the top right away from the beginning," she said. He drove an Escalade and always wore nice suits, shirts and pants. When she looked him up after the first date, his Olympian past checked out and he seemed well-traveled.
Two weeks in, though, "he did weird things," Ms. Toro said. Once again, he moved aggressively, first trying to move in with her -- which she resisted, even as he showed up with a suitcase and a box of sports memorabilia -- and then quickly pitching a chance to invest in his business.
They met with Mr. Vinson and walked through a home. Afterward, Mr. Hyatt took Ms. Toro to a furniture store and asked if she would apply for a line of credit for him. That request was too much for Ms. Toro. "Then it all unravels," she said of their relationship.
Shortly after that, she said, she received a statement for a credit card he had apparently taken out in her name without her knowledge.
In Mr. Vinson's real estate office a few miles away, he received an application for the home with all of Ms. Toro's personal details. "We approved it based on her," he said.
Ms. Toro said she had no idea.
In April 2018, a check from Mr. Hyatt to Mr. Vinson for a lease option for the home bounced. He subsequently took Mr. Hyatt to small claims court.
"I learned the hard way," Mr. Vinson said. "Never take a personal check."
By then Mr. Hyatt had a new girlfriend, one who hadn't seen the court dockets: Kimberlie Reed.
'Your Boyfriend Will Be a Millionaire'
In the summer of 2018, Mr. Hyatt told Ms. Reed that he was eagerly anticipating a $ 108,000 federal loan that would help launch PongNation. Soon, he said, he could focus on his table tennis endeavor full time.
"We'll do well over the $ 1.4 million in revenue I'm projecting for Aug to Dec 2018 and make over $ 700K in profit as well," Mr. Hyatt texted her.
Mr. Hyatt wanted to stage a tournament in July 2018 at a local venue, and in the weeks leading up to the event, she said he told her that "1,000 people" were signed up.
Mr. Hyatt asked her to help get the tournament going, she said. Mr. Hyatt said that he had an investor who wanted to pay $ 1.2 million for a 10 percent stake in the company. But the investor, he said, needed to see that Mr. Hyatt had $ 100,000 in cash -- and that the tournament was successful.
Mr. Hyatt and Ms. Reed then went to a bank to open a business line of credit in both of their names. They did the same at another bank.
Mr. Hyatt and Ms. Reed visited a CarMax, where she said she signed for a loan for a $ 29,000 Toyota Highlander. Mr. Hyatt handed over a check for $ 2,000 and said the car would be used for business purposes, Ms. Reed said. (The check bounced.)
On Aug. 4, 2018, Ms. Reed arrived at the venue for the tournament and found only a handful of athletes in attendance.
"It was a joke," she said. Mr. Hyatt returned to her home that night despondent and went to bed.
The next morning, "it was like it hadn't happened," Ms. Reed said. He posted on Facebook that the tournament was a success.
Ms. Reed began receiving statements for other credit cards opened using her personal information that she had not signed up for, including a Capital One card that was maxed out for over $ 10,000. An American Express gold card in Ms. Reed's name had more than $ 20,000 worth of charges on it.
When Ms. Reed confronted Mr. Hyatt, he continued to reassure her that investor funds were coming soon. "I think we'll get $ 100K tomorrow afternoon and $ 400K next Thursday or Friday," he messaged Ms. Reed on Aug. 6.
On Aug. 15, Mr. Hyatt texted Ms. Reed, "I have a check for $ 100K and a signed agreement in place." But he dodged her efforts to meet in person. In their back and forth that week, he said "your boyfriend will be a millionaire by years end. PongNation will do about $ 16M in 2019 and make over $ 4M in profit. Love your man, support him, let him come to you."
Despite the bravado, Mr. Hyatt's world began to cave in on him. On Aug. 30, Ms. Reed went to the hotel where Mr. Hyatt was staying and reclaimed the Highlander that she had purchased for him.
Ms. Reed also hired a private investigator to look into the man she thought she was building a life with. Two weeks later, a bench warrant for Mr. Hyatt's arrest was issued for the alleged misuse of welfare funds, as reported by Ms. Cummins.
'I'm Going to Be OK'
Mr. Hyatt soon surfaced in Guam, a U.S. territory, drawn by a job offer from its table tennis federation.
"I now have a Guam driver's license," he told The Guam Post on Oct. 19, 2018, in an article headlined "Guam Table Tennis Gets an Olympian." He said he had arrived to coach and "I am here to stay."
Within a few hours of the article being published online, the email inbox of the reporter who wrote it, Matt Weiss, filled with messages from Ms. Reed and others who told of their experiences with Mr. Hyatt. Mr. Weiss wrote another article, this one with the headline "Former Olympian on Guam Wanted in California." The table tennis federation pulled Mr. Hyatt's job offer.
He left Guam for Southeast Asia.
He turned up in the Philippines, and assumed a new identity as Anthony Bennett, according to interviews with people there and a copy of the identification he used, which was seen by The New York Times.
Mr. Hyatt continued to meet with women. Several who interacted with him during this time remember him constantly being on his laptop or his phone, moving from one hotel to another, and asking for money. He spoke less of his table tennis past. On a LinkedIn profile, Mr. Hyatt claimed he worked as a vice president of sales and marketing for the food company ADM from February 2018 to May 2021. A company spokeswoman said they did not find "anyone of that name in our records."
Back in Sacramento, Ms. Reed is continuing to improve her credit. She is also in counseling.
"I was so humiliated after this," she said.
She communicates with others like Ms. Cummins who say they were also duped by Mr. Hyatt and occasionally grabs a glass of wine with them. They've compared their timelines, and credit card statements.
All told, Mr. Hyatt now stands accused of defrauding at least 10 people out of a total of several hundred thousand dollars.
"This guy is so good at what he does," Ms. Cummins said. "It makes you feel like you're kind of crazy but then you meet these women and you think, 'I'm going to be OK."'
Ms. Reed has refrained from dating since her time with Mr. Hyatt. She teaches second grade during the day and teaches Pilates in her spare time. And she continues to share her story about her Tinder date with an Olympian that ran amok.
On a recent spring afternoon, she clicked through files on her laptop, her dog, Stella, looking on as the sun set against the shining tiles of the mosaics that adorn the walls of her dining room.
"I have ZERO regrets," one of the last text messages she received from Mr. Hyatt said. "When my time comes to move on from this world to the next I will be proud that I took the road less travelled."
Photograph Above, Michael Hyatt impressed people with exaggerated athletic tales and initial largess. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT WEISS/THE GUAM DAILY POST) (BU6); Left, Sandra Blanco was involved with Mr. Hyatt for two years. They had a child together, but he is not in contact with them. Above, DeMylon Vinson, a real estate agent, took Mr. Hyatt to court over what he said was a bounced check. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN C. BATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6-BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU6, BU7.

Subject: Table tennis; Tournaments & championships; Olympic games; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; Jamaica; United States--US; Sacramento California; Georgia

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/17/business/michael-hyatt-table-tennis-fraud.html

Title: First Table Tennis, And Then a Shift To Shell Games:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 24, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132223868

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-table-tennis-then-shift-shell-games/docview/3132223868/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

First Table Tennis, and Then a Shift to Shell Games

Author: Pilon, Mary

Publication info: Pilon, Mary. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-table-tennis-then-shift-shell-games/docview/3132184486/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: SACRAMENTO, Calif. — When Kimberlie Reed met Michael Hyatt on Tinder in 2017, she was in awe.
On their first date, after several months of exchanging messages, they sat at a high top table near the bar at a Sacramento BJ’s. Hyatt, his head shaved and wearing a crisp button-down shirt, regaled her with stories of representing his native Jamaica in table tennis at the 1992 and 1996 Olympic Games.
He was magnetic and accomplished, and, to her mind, it made perfect sense that in the June 2014 issue of USA Table Tennis’ monthly magazine he had been called “the Usain Bolt of Table Tennis.”
Over the ensuing months, the two began a romantic relationship. Hyatt spoke to Reed at length about what he said was his passion project: PongNation, a table tennis club akin to SPIN, a Susan Sarandon-connected franchise started in New York in 2009. He walked Reed through an empty storefront in an industrial pocket of nearby Roseville that he said would soon be PongNation’s home, describing franchise agreements he had reached with Puma and Starbucks. By co-signing business loans, opening credit cards and adding some of her own cash, she, too, became part of it.
“Next thing I know,” Reed said, “he fled the country.”
Dozens of interviews, court records, text messages, financial statements and other documents reviewed by The New York Times show that Reed was hardly the first person to believe in Hyatt and, soon after, regret it.
Efforts to reach Hyatt, 54, for comment were unsuccessful. Various cellphone and WhatsApp numbers associated with him in the United States and abroad have been disconnected. He did not reply to messages sent to three different email addresses and various social media profiles he has used over the years.
His brother, when reached via Facebook Messenger, replied: “Zelle me 2k and I’ll tell you anything you want to know.” (The Times does not pay people it interviews for news articles.) Hyatt’s mother, when reached by phone in August, said she hadn’t spoken to him in “years” before remarking, “I don’t know if he’s dead or alive.”
Then she hung up.
A Reputation Begins to Tarnish
Many of Hyatt’s personal and business relationships were built on what people did not know about him.
Despite the impression he may have given, Hyatt’s Olympic career was not illustrious. He finished 33rd in men’s singles at the 1992 Games in Barcelona, Spain, and 49th at the 1996 Atlanta Games, along with a 25th-place finish in men’s doubles.
But he remained a known, and liked, presence in the niche, close-knit table tennis community, in which the vast majority of competitors work multiple jobs while pursuing their athletic dreams. In the 1990s, the circuit involved tournaments at recreation centers and church basements, and a hodgepodge of carpooling and last-minute lodging. Some athletes described how Hyatt would be the first to lend a couch for crashing during tournaments or paddles or apparel.
Feelings shifted in February 1996, when Hyatt hosted a tournament in Georgia and failed to pay $15,000 in prize money, said Christian Lillieroos, a coach who knew Hyatt.
“It came as a big surprise to me,” Lillieroos said. “I couldn’t believe he was doing it.”
Hyatt ran into other trouble. He was not permitted to travel with the Jamaican national team in 1999 “due to poor disciplinary records,” according to a report in the Jamaican publication The Gleaner , which noted that he had been sent home early from the Central American and Caribbean Games “because of misbehavior.”
Hyatt kept busy in other ways. He started a company called EJAM IT Solutions in December 1998, according to a registration with the state of Georgia, where he had put down roots.
Four years later, at least five schools in Jamaica had ordered 150 computers from EJAM and made down payments of several thousand dollars. But, according to a report in The Gleaner, the computers never arrived, and Hyatt was nowhere to be found.
In 2003, Hyatt was charged in Cobb County, Georgia, with a felony after being accused of floating a bad check. In December 2003, Hyatt also faced a charge of fraud, according to court records. That year, the bad-check case was dismissed, and he paid a restitution tied to the fraud case.
In 2005, Hyatt filed a change of address with the court. He was moving to California.
‘He’s an Empty Shell’
In Northern California, Hyatt met women online, told them of his Olympic past, then began to pitch them his idea for a pingpong facility. Some declined to invest, while others took out several thousand dollars in loans or co-signed loans with Hyatt, according to interviews with women, friends and colleagues who knew him at the time.
Sandra Blanco met Hyatt on a dating website in 2005. “I was very impressed with him,” Blanco said. “I’m from Nicaragua. We had some cultural similarities and bonded really well.”
Blanco said she often saw Hyatt on the phone and on his laptop. “He always seemed like he was working two jobs,” she said. He often paid for meals, movies, groceries and other shared expenses. “I didn’t lose a dollar with Michael,” she said of their early courtship.
After about a year, they moved in together. But six months after she gave birth to their daughter in 2007, and after two years together, Blanco and Hyatt separated.
Blanco was granted full custody of their daughter. Hyatt was ordered to pay monthly child support payments of $1,200, which he did until 2017. For reasons that are unclear to Blanco, the payments stopped and resumed only last fall. The payments are made via direct deposit, and neither she nor her daughter has had any contact with Hyatt in more than a decade.
“Lots of things are missing from him,” Blanco said. “He’s an empty shell.”
In 2015, Hyatt was barred permanently from USA Table Tennis because of “sexual misconduct,” according to the U.S. Center for SafeSport, a nonprofit organization directed by Congress to handle accusations of misconduct in Olympic and Paralympic sports. (As a matter of policy, SafeSport does not disclose details of its cases.)
Yet, Hyatt continued to be involved in the sport, competing for Jamaica in several tournaments, including the world championships in Malaysia in 2016. In an Instagram post, he celebrated Jamaica for winning a bronze medal. However, the team finished 75th.
On Dec. 30, 2016, he announced his retirement from the sport.
“Life changes,” he said at the time. “And you have different motivations.”
His relationship with Blanco over, Hyatt kept dating. Jodi Cummins was working two jobs and driving an Uber to make ends meet when Hyatt took her on a first date to an elegant dinner in Napa, California. A single mother living in Sacramento, Cummins was a “bit cautious” when they began seeing each other but was moved one weekend when Hyatt took her to Trader Joe’s and picked up the bill and filled the gas tank of her car. “He was flashy but generous,” she said.
Soon, Hyatt told her that he was looking at homes closer to her in Sacramento. “I was really excited,” she said.
DeMylon Vinson, a real estate broker, gave Hyatt and Cummins a tour of a four-bedroom, two-bathroom, 1,873-square-foot home in Elk Grove, south of Sacramento. Cummins thought that she was looking at a home Hyatt alone would inhabit but, without her knowledge, Hyatt said in emails to Vinson that he and Cummins would be moving in together.
Despite those messages, Vinson said Hyatt then “just disappeared.”
One night around the same time, Hyatt, who was staying with Cummins because he said a home he was renting nearby wasn’t ready to move into, didn’t return home when she was expecting him. She learned that Hyatt had been arrested, apparently over a rental car he had not returned. In going through his paperwork, text messages and communications with others, she learned that Hyatt had been fired from his job and hadn’t paid his rent. He was also receiving unemployment payments and an EBT — short for electronic benefits transfer — card at her address and pursuing other women online.
A statement Cummins reviewed for a credit card that she said had been taken out in her name without her knowledge revealed that, on at least one occasion, he had gone to the movies instead of an office job during the day.
She tried to end things. She filed a restraining order, presenting a judge with evidence that included a text message from Hyatt threatening to kill her cat. She, her son and the cat moved in with a family member.
Cummins soon returned to her house and found Hyatt there. She called police. “I stood on the front lawn and watched the sheriff carry him out,” she said. “It was a nightmare.”
Vinson, who was unaware of what had been transpiring, said he was surprised when, several months later, Hyatt reached out to say he was looking for a house again, this time with his new partner, Elizabeth Toro, a blackjack dealer who also lived in the Sacramento area.
Toro and Hyatt had their first date in February 2018, and “he was over the top right away from the beginning,” she said. He drove an Escalade and always wore nice suits, shirts and pants. When she looked him up after the first date, his Olympian past checked out, and he seemed well-traveled.
Two weeks in, though, “he did weird things,” Toro said. Once again, he moved aggressively, first trying to move in with her — which she resisted, even as he showed up with a suitcase and a box of sports memorabilia — and then quickly pitching a chance to invest in his business.
They met with Vinson and walked through a home. Afterward, Hyatt took Toro to a furniture store and asked if she would apply for a line of credit for him. That request was too much for Toro. “Then it all unravels,” she said of their relationship.
Shortly after that, she said, she received a statement for a credit card he had apparently taken out in her name without her knowledge.
In Vinson’s real estate office a few miles away, he received an application for the home with all of Toro’s personal details. “We approved it based on her,” he said.
Toro said she had no idea.
In April 2018, a check from Hyatt to Vinson for a lease option for the home bounced. He subsequently took Hyatt to small-claims court.
“I learned the hard way,” Vinson said. “Never take a personal check.”
By then, Hyatt had a new girlfriend, one who hadn’t seen the court dockets: Kimberlie Reed.
‘Your Boyfriend Will Be a Millionaire’
In the summer of 2018, Hyatt told Reed that he was eagerly anticipating a $108,000 federal loan that would help launch PongNation. Soon, he said, he could focus on his table tennis endeavor full time.
“We’ll do well over the $1.4 million in revenue I’m projecting for Aug to Dec 2018 and make over $700K in profit as well,” Hyatt texted her.
Hyatt wanted to stage a tournament in July 2018 at a local venue, and in the weeks leading up to the event, she said he told her that “1,000 people” were signed up.
Hyatt asked her to help get the tournament going, she said. Hyatt said he had an investor who wanted to pay $1.2 million for a 10% stake in the company. But the investor, he said, needed to see that Hyatt had $100,000 in cash — and that the tournament was successful.
Hyatt and Reed then went to a bank to open a business line of credit in both of their names. They did the same at another bank.
Hyatt and Reed visited a CarMax, where she said she signed for a loan for a $29,000 Toyota Highlander. Hyatt handed over a check for $2,000 and said the car would be used for business purposes, Reed said. (The check bounced.)
On Aug. 4, 2018, Reed arrived at the venue for the tournament and found only a handful of athletes in attendance.
“It was a joke,” she said. Hyatt returned to her home that night despondent and went to bed.
The next morning, “it was like it hadn’t happened,” Reed said. He posted on Facebook that the tournament was a success.
Reed began receiving statements for other credit cards opened using her personal information that she had not signed up for, including a Capital One card that was maxed out for more than $10,000. An American Express gold card in Reed’s name had more than $20,000 worth of charges on it.
When Reed confronted Hyatt, he continued to reassure her that investor funds were coming soon. “I think we’ll get $100K tomorrow afternoon and $400K next Thursday or Friday,” he messaged Reed on Aug. 6.
On Aug. 15, Hyatt texted Reed, “I have a check for $100K and a signed agreement in place.” But he dodged her efforts to meet in person. In their back-and-forth that week, he said that “your boyfriend will be a millionaire by years end. PongNation will do about $16M in 2019 and make over $4M in profit. Love your man, support him, let him come to you.”
Despite the bravado, Hyatt’s world began to cave in on him. On Aug. 30, Reed went to the hotel where Hyatt was staying and reclaimed the Highlander that she had purchased for him.
Reed also hired a private investigator to look into the man she thought she was building a life with. Two weeks later, a bench warrant for Hyatt’s arrest was issued for the alleged misuse of welfare funds, as reported by Cummins.
‘I’m Going to Be OK’
Hyatt soon surfaced in Guam, a U.S. territory, drawn by a job offer from its table tennis federation.
“I now have a Guam driver’s license,” he told The Guam Post on Oct. 19, 2018, in an article headlined “Guam Table Tennis Gets an Olympian.” He said he had arrived to coach and “I am here to stay.”
Within a few hours of the article being published online, the email inbox of the reporter who wrote it, Matt Weiss, filled with messages from Reed and others who told of their experiences with Hyatt. Weiss wrote another article, this one with the headline “Former Olympian on Guam Wanted in California.” The table tennis federation pulled Hyatt’s job offer.
He left Guam for Southeast Asia.
He turned up in the Philippines and assumed a new identity as Anthony Bennett, according to interviews with people there and a copy of the identification he used, which was seen by the Times.
Hyatt continued to meet with women. Several who interacted with him during this time remember him constantly being on his laptop or his phone, moving from one hotel to another, and asking for money. He spoke less of his table tennis past. On a LinkedIn profile, Hyatt claimed he worked as a vice president of sales and marketing for food company ADM from February 2018 to May 2021. A company spokesperson said they did not find “anyone of that name in our records.”
Back in Sacramento, Reed is continuing to improve her credit. She is also in counseling.
“I was so humiliated after this,” she said.
She communicates with others such as Cummins who say they were also duped by Hyatt and occasionally grabs a glass of wine with them. They’ve compared their timelines and credit card statements.
All told, Hyatt now stands accused of defrauding at least 10 people out of a total of several hundred thousand dollars.
“This guy is so good at what he does,” Cummins said. “It makes you feel like you’re kind of crazy, but then you meet these women, and you think, ‘I’m going to be OK.’”
Reed has refrained from dating since her time with Hyatt. She teaches second grade during the day and teaches Pilates in her spare time. And she continues to share her story about her Tinder date with an Olympian that ran amok.
On a recent spring afternoon, she clicked through files on her laptop, her dog, Stella, looking on as the sun set against the shining tiles of the mosaics that adorn the walls of her dining room.
“I have ZERO regrets,” one of the last text messages she received from Hyatt said. “When my time comes to move on from this world to the next I will be proud that I took the road less travelled.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Table tennis; Tournaments & championships; Olympic games; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: California; New York; Jamaica; United States--US; Sacramento California; Georgia

Identifier / keyword: Banking And Financial Institutions; United States; Social Media; Jamaica (West Indies); Running; Food; Barcelona (Spain); Cobb County (Ga); Philippines; Sports; Capital One Financial Corporation; Pregnancy And Childbirth; Linkedin Corporation; Child Custody And Support; Georgia; Puma Ag; Pilon, Mary; Tennis; California; Hyatt Hotels Corp; Nicaragua; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Embezzlement; Roseville (Calif); Hiring And Promotion; Instagram Inc; Uber Technologies Inc; Jamaica (Queens, Ny); Caribbean Area; Whatsapp Inc; Threats And Threatening Messages; Us Center For Safesport; Wages And Salaries; Tinder (Mobile App); Computers And The Internet; Toyota Motor Corp; Starbucks Corporation; Malaysia; International Relations; Frauds And Swindling; Wireless Communications; Facebook Inc; Atlanta (Ga); Napa (Calif); Text Messaging; Central American And Caribbean Games; Dating And Relationships; Cellular Telephones; Income Inequality; Guam; Newspapers; Online Dating; Bolt, Usain; Laptop Computers; Sarandon, Susan; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Carmax Inc; Instant Messaging; Seasons And Months; Cre dit Cards; Travel And Vacations; Elk Grove (Calif); Home Equity Loans; Sacramento (Calif); Olympic Games; American Express Company; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; New York Times; Sexual Harassment; Names, Personal; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Spain

Title: First Table Tennis, and Then a Shift to Shell Games

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 23, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132184486

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/first-table-tennis-then-shift-shell-games/docview/3132184486/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Musk Moved to the Right, His Businesses Moved to Texas, Altering Cities: [National Desk]

Author: Goodman, J David

Publication info: Goodman, J David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-musk-moved-right-his-businesses-texas-altering/docview/3132002516/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk had long been drifting away from the political culture of California, railing against its regulations and pandemic-era lockdowns. So, four years ago, he decided to move to Texas, eager to embrace its wide-open business culture and be embraced by its Republican leaders.
Since then, Mr. Musk and his companies have spread across Texas with accelerating speed, transforming ranches into factories outside of Austin, using coastal lands as a launch site for space travel near Brownsville and turning farms outside Corpus Christi into what will soon be the state's first lithium refinery, for his electric cars.
The headquarters of X is moving to Texas. Mr. Musk's largest factory for Tesla vehicles arrived in 2022, east of Austin. His tunneling company, the Boring Company, has its own small bedroom community of mobile homes and is testing its technology with a pair of tunnels under a farm road outside the city of Bastrop.
Mr. Musk has done more than simply move businesses from a blue state to a red state. His growing presence in Texas has been part of a high-profile political transformation -- from a Democratic electric car evangelist to perhaps the most significant backer of President-elect Donald J. Trump -- that could help further expand his businesses in the state.
During the presidential campaign, Mr. Musk funded almost entirely on his own a ground-game effort to elect Mr. Trump that cost more than $ 175 million. Since the election, Mr. Musk, a major federal government contractor, has been a prominent adviser to Mr. Trump on cabinet selections, and was himself selected to help lead efforts to reduce federal regulations and spending.
Not only has Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, a Republican, been cheering him on, but so has Mr. Trump, who has already expressed enthusiasm for Mr. Musk's efforts in the state and what he has rejected in Democratic-controlled California.
"The Californians I know who moved to Texas are even extra Texan marinated in Texas sauce," Mr. Musk wrote on X a day after the election. "For the love of God, please don't let Texas become California."
On Tuesday, the president-elect traveled to Brownsville to join Mr. Musk for the latest launch of his company SpaceX's powerful rocket system, Starship. The launches, which are regulated by the federal government, have been criticized for their effect on the surrounding coastal wildlife, and for blocking access to the Boca Chica public beach.
"For some people, it's unforgivable," said Eddie Treviño Jr., the top official in Cameron County, seated in his office in Brownsville. But, he added, "the pros outweigh the cons."
Bit by bit, Mr. Musk has transformed parts of Texas so quickly, even by the standards of the development-friendly state, that it has taken many locals by surprise. His companies share little about their plans in advance, and do little in the way of community outreach. None of them agreed to discuss their Texas operations with The New York Times.
"The narrative that we operate free of, or in defiance of, environmental regulation is demonstrably false," SpaceX said in a statement in September, adding that the company was "committed to minimizing impact and enhancing the surrounding environment where possible."
The desire for speed has led to some friction. In and around Brownsville, some longtime residents complain that the rapid expansion of SpaceX has been damaging the environment, endangering protected animal species and contributing to rising housing costs in an area long known as one of the most affordable in Texas.
Similar complaints about unchecked growth have greeted the Boring Company and SpaceX's factory in Bastrop County, a conservative rural community that has long resisted the influence of nearby Austin.
"I really don't want to see this growth -- this is not the Bastrop we wanted," said Mel Hamner, an outgoing Republican county commissioner.
His incoming replacement, Butch Carmack, also a Republican, nodded in agreement. "We moved here for the small town," he said, wearing a shirt with the logo of Twin Liquors, where he works as a manager. "It's not a small town anymore."
But other local officials in Bastrop and Cameron Counties said the arrival of Mr. Musk's companies had been a boon for jobs and growth, placing their often overlooked communities on the map. And residents have appeared mostly supportive.
"I think it's great," said Armando Morales, 38, who lives in Bastrop and drives an Uber in Austin. "I'm for it as long as he's responsible with the environment."
In Brownsville, a border city along the Gulf of Mexico, a redevelopment of the historic downtown coincided with the expansion of SpaceX. The Musk Foundation committed about $ 10 million to the effort, Mayor John Cowen said. New hotels and coffee shops have opened. Murals feature space themes and, in one, a smiling Mr. Musk.
"It's a win-win," the mayor said. "We have two French restaurants downtown now."
Mr. Treviño agreed: "We've been looking and fighting and striving for better-paying jobs for generations."
Though rarely seen out in Brownsville, Mr. Musk keeps a home in Cameron County and voted there on Election Day. He has been building a family compound in Austin, according to people familiar with his plans. (Mr. Musk has denied having such plans.)
But recently, it has been Bastrop County that has seen the most rapid expansion of Mr. Musk's presence.
Situated along the winding Colorado River east of Austin, the county and town of the same name have been among the last places to see the spread of development from the state capital.
Entities affiliated with Mr. Musk quietly bought up hundreds of acres of land, and building began about three years ago, locals said. Now the area is humming with activity: The Boring Company operates there, and SpaceX has been manufacturing its Starlink satellite-internet kits in a giant building, which is in the process of roughly doubling its size.
A combination company store, lunch counter, barbershop and bar that is open to the public -- the Boring Bodega -- provides a small community space for those willing to drive 15 minutes from downtown Bastrop. On a recent afternoon, several women played Mahjong at a table near a group of young men eating lunch in Boring company shirts. Outside, children played on a small playground. A pickleball court sat unused.
"It was just farmland out there," said Becki Womble, the Bastrop chamber of commerce president. "Then all of a sudden it was like, 'Voilà, Elon is here."'
The swift development of the area alarmed local landowners and sparked a fight over the companies' disposal of wastewater in the Colorado River.
After some public fights, SpaceX reached a deal this year to connect to a wastewater treatment plant in the city of Bastrop and provide $ 3 million to help pay for the construction of the sewer line, said Sylvia Carrillo, the city manager. The Boring Company was not part of the deal, she said, but could potentially make use of the line via SpaceX.
The line would also help serve even more development in the area. Plans submitted to the county in 2022 on land owned by Mr. Musk's companies proposed construction of a small subdivision of 110 houses, according to copies of the plans obtained by The Times in a freedom of information request.
The subdivision, described in the documents as "Project Amazing," has not yet been approved by the county, officials said. Ms. Carrillo said that in discussions about the development, its potential size ranged up to as many as 1,100 houses.
The Boring Company, SpaceX and Mr. Musk did not respond to requests for comment for this article. An email to the press account for X returned a message saying that it had been blocked.
As the growth has continued, including new sand and gravel mines that followed Mr. Musk's arrival, many of the longtime landowners who geared up for a fight three years ago have since decided to leave.
"There's maybe one or two that are still here," said Skip Connett, who owns a 32-acre organic farm on the other side of the Colorado River from the SpaceX development. "As his footprint has grown, his plans have grown," he added of Mr. Musk. "First it was just the Boring Company, and then it was SpaceX, and now it's X."
Mr. Musk said over the summer that he would relocate the headquarters of X to Texas, and officials in Bastrop have been preparing for what they expect will be the ribbon-cutting on a new office in early December. "They're gearing up with employees and everything," Ms. Womble said.
"Can't wait for next year!" Roy Draa, an X executive, said in a post on LinkedIn after meeting with Bastrop officials this month.
Matt Walker, a real estate agent in Bastrop, recently gave a presentation about the area to dozens of X employees. So far, Mr. Walker said, the community had not really felt the influence of Mr. Musk's companies. "They're on the outskirts, and haven't really integrated with the rest of Bastrop," he said.
That sentiment was a common one in the western-style downtown where, on a recent afternoon, a local band was recording scenes for a music video near a book store opened by the celebrity author Ryan Holiday.
"I don't see an influx of tech dudes; I see more displaced Austinites," said Mike Kiddoo, a singer in the band. "I don't see it impacting everything as much as I thought it would."
Local officials have largely embraced the attention, and even if they have not, they have limited power to intervene: Landowners in Texas have broad freedom to develop their own land, particularly outside of city limits.
Still, some of Mr. Musk's ideas have run into road blocks.
In Bastrop County, county officials said Mr. Musk had been trying to open a day care and an elementary school, called Ad Astra, on a former horse farm. School officials sought permission for as many as 50 students and teachers, said Mr. Hamner, the outgoing county commissioner, but were rejected because the septic system could accommodate only half that number.
No activity was visible during a visit this month. A call and email to the school were not returned.
"We have very few regulations here," Mr. Hamner said. "We have wastewater, we have flood plain, we have culvert regulations. But we enforce them all."
In Cameron County, Mr. Musk has also failed so far to rename the area where SpaceX is, a plan he proposed years ago.
"Creating the city of Starbase, Texas," Mr. Musk wrote on X in 2021, when it was still called Twitter.
He has had an easier time creating the physical layout of a de facto company town, and blasting rockets into space, than he has had trying to change the name of the land.
A spokeswoman for the U.S. Geological Survey, which oversees the agency in charge of such names, said the proposal was still pending.
Still, SpaceX has effectively taken over the area, about a 40-minute drive from Brownsville along a truck-beaten, two-lane road. Aging ranch homes have been renovated, with Teslas parked in front. Workers stay in silver Airstream trailers lined up one next to another, or in small mobile homes.
Nearby, towering over the coastal landscape, rockets are being built.
Photograph Elon Musk's growing presence in Texas has been part of a high-profile political transformation that could help further expand his businesses in the state. Left, President-elect Donald J. Trump joined Mr. Musk on Tuesday for the latest launch of his company SpaceX's powerful rocket system, Starship. Right, Mr. Musk's various company headquarters in Bastrop, a conservative rural community. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON BELL; JORDAN VONDERHAAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The Musk Foundation committed $ 10 million toward revitalizing downtown Brownsville. Now the area has new coffee shops and hotels, and a mural of Mr. Musk. SpaceX launches have been criticized for their effect on coastal wildlife, and for blocking access to the Boca Chica public beach, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A12.

Subject: Landowners; Manufacturing; Electric vehicles; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing Factories

Location: Cameron County Texas; California; Texas; United States--US; Colorado River; Bastrop County Texas

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Boring Co; NAICS: 237990; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/19/us/texas-elon-musk.html

Title: As Musk Moved to the Right, His Businesses Moved to Texas, Altering Cities:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 23, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132002516

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-musk-moved-right-his-businesses-texas-altering/docview/3132002516/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 23, 2024

Last updated: 202 4-12-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Elon Musk Moved to the Right, His Businesses Moved to Texas

Author: Goodman, J David

Publication info: Goodman, J David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-elon-musk-moved-right-his-businesses-texas/docview/3131998451/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

BASTROP, Texas — Elon Musk had long been drifting away from the political culture of California, railing against its regulations and pandemic-era lockdowns. So, four years ago, he decided to move to Texas, eager to embrace its wide-open business culture and be embraced by its Republican leaders.
Since then, Musk and his companies have spread across Texas with accelerating speed, transforming ranches into factories outside Austin, using coastal lands as a launch site for space travel near Brownsville and turning farms outside Corpus Christi into what will soon be the state’s first lithium refinery, for his electric cars.
The headquarters of the social platform X is moving to Texas. Musk's largest factory for Tesla vehicles arrived in 2022, east of Austin. His tunneling company, the Boring Co., has its own small bedroom community of mobile homes and is testing its technology with a pair of tunnels under a farm road outside the city of Bastrop.
Musk has done more than simply move businesses from a blue state to a red state. His growing presence in Texas has been part of a high-profile political transformation — from a Democratic electric car evangelist to perhaps the most significant backer of President-elect Donald Trump — that could help further expand his businesses in the state.
During the presidential campaign, Musk funded almost entirely on his own a ground-game effort to elect Trump that cost more than $175 million. Since the election, Musk, a major federal government contractor, has been a prominent adviser to Trump on Cabinet selections, and was himself selected to help lead efforts to reduce federal regulations and spending.
Not only has Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, a Republican, been cheering him on, but so has Trump, who has already expressed enthusiasm for Musk’s efforts in the state and what he has rejected in Democratic-controlled California.
“The Californians I know who moved to Texas are even extra Texan marinated in Texas sauce,” Musk wrote on X a day after the election. “For the love of God, please don’t let Texas become California.”
On Tuesday, the president-elect traveled to Brownsville to join Musk for the latest launch of his company SpaceX’s powerful rocket system, Starship. The launches, which are regulated by the federal government, have been criticized for their effect on the surrounding coastal wildlife, and for blocking access to the Boca Chica public beach.
“For some people, it’s unforgivable,” said Eddie Treviño Jr., the top official in Cameron County, seated in his office in Brownsville. But, he added, “the pros outweigh the cons.”
Bit by bit, Musk has transformed parts of Texas so quickly, even by the standards of the development-friendly state, that it has taken many locals by surprise. His companies share little about their plans in advance, and do little in the way of community outreach. None of them agreed to discuss their Texas operations with The New York Times.
“The narrative that we operate free of, or in defiance of, environmental regulation is demonstrably false,” SpaceX said in a statement in September, adding that the company was “committed to minimizing impact and enhancing the surrounding environment where possible.”
The desire for speed has led to some friction. In and around Brownsville, some longtime residents complain that the rapid expansion of SpaceX has been damaging the environment, endangering protected animal species and contributing to rising housing costs in an area long known as one of the most affordable in Texas.
Similar complaints about unchecked growth have greeted the Boring Co. and SpaceX’s factory in Bastrop County, a conservative rural community that has long resisted the influence of nearby Austin.
“I really don’t want to see this growth — this is not the Bastrop we wanted,” said Mel Hamner, an outgoing Republican county commissioner.
His incoming replacement, Butch Carmack, also a Republican, nodded in agreement. “We moved here for the small town,” he said, wearing a shirt with the logo of Twin Liquors, where he works as a manager. “It’s not a small town anymore.”
But other local officials in Bastrop and Cameron counties said the arrival of Musk’s companies had been a boon for jobs and growth, placing their often overlooked communities on the map. And residents have appeared mostly supportive.
“I think it’s great,” said Armando Morales, 38, who lives in Bastrop and drives an Uber in Austin. “I’m for it as long as he’s responsible with the environment.”
In Brownsville, a border city along the Gulf of Mexico, a redevelopment of the historic downtown coincided with the expansion of SpaceX. The Musk Foundation committed about $10 million to the effort, Mayor John Cowen said. New hotels and coffee shops have opened. Murals feature space themes and, in one, a smiling Musk.
“It’s a win-win,” the mayor said. “We have two French restaurants downtown now.”
Treviño agreed: “We’ve been looking and fighting and striving for better-paying jobs for generations.”
Though rarely seen out in Brownsville, Musk keeps a home in Cameron County and voted there on Election Day. He has been building a family compound in Austin, according to people familiar with his plans. (Musk has denied having such plans.)
But recently, it has been Bastrop County that has seen the most rapid expansion of Musk’s presence.
Situated along the winding Colorado River east of Austin, the county and town of the same name have been among the last places to see the spread of development from the state capital.
Entities affiliated with Musk quietly bought up hundreds of acres of land, and building began about three years ago, locals said. Now the area is humming with activity: The Boring Co. operates there, and SpaceX has been manufacturing its Starlink satellite-internet kits in a giant building, which is in the process of roughly doubling its size.
A combination company store, lunch counter, barbershop and bar that is open to the public — the Boring Bodega — provides a small community space for those willing to drive 15 minutes from downtown Bastrop. On a recent afternoon, several women played mahjong at a table near a group of young men eating lunch in Boring company shirts. Outside, children played on a small playground. A pickleball court sat unused.
“It was just farmland out there,” said Becki Womble, the Bastrop chamber of commerce president. “Then all of a sudden it was like, ‘Voilà, Elon is here.’”
The swift development of the area alarmed local landowners and sparked a fight over the companies’ disposal of wastewater in the Colorado River.
After some public fights, SpaceX reached a deal this year to connect to a wastewater treatment plant in the city of Bastrop and provide $3 million to help pay for the construction of the sewer line, said Sylvia Carrillo, the city manager. The Boring Co. was not part of the deal, she said, but could potentially make use of the line via SpaceX.
The line would also help serve even more development in the area. Plans submitted to the county in 2022 on land owned by Musk’s companies proposed construction of a small subdivision of 110 houses, according to copies of the plans obtained by the Times in a freedom of information request.
The subdivision, described in the documents as “Project Amazing,” has not yet been approved by the county, officials said. Carrillo said that in discussions about the development, its potential size ranged up to as many as 1,100 houses.
The Boring Co., SpaceX and Musk did not respond to requests for comment for this article. An email to the press account for X returned a message saying that it had been blocked.
As the growth has continued, including new sand and gravel mines that followed Musk’s arrival, many of the longtime landowners who geared up for a fight three years ago have since decided to leave.
“There’s maybe one or two that are still here,” said Skip Connett, who owns a 32-acre organic farm on the other side of the Colorado River from the SpaceX development. “As his footprint has grown, his plans have grown,” he added of Musk. “First it was just the Boring Co., and then it was SpaceX, and now it’s X.”
Musk said over the summer that he would relocate the headquarters of X to Texas, and officials in Bastrop have been preparing for what they expect will be the ribbon-cutting on a new office in early December. “They’re gearing up with employees and everything,” Womble said.
“Can’t wait for next year!” Roy Draa, an X executive, said in a post on LinkedIn after meeting with Bastrop officials this month.
Matt Walker, a real estate agent in Bastrop, recently gave a presentation about the area to dozens of X employees. So far, Walker said, the community had not really felt the influence of Musk’s companies. “They’re on the outskirts, and haven’t really integrated with the rest of Bastrop," he said.
That sentiment was a common one in the Western-style downtown where, on a recent afternoon, a local band was recording scenes for a music video near a book store opened by celebrity author Ryan Holiday.
“I don’t see an influx of tech dudes; I see more displaced Austinites,” said Mike Kiddoo, a singer in the band. “I don’t see it impacting everything as much as I thought it would.”
Local officials have largely embraced the attention, and even if they have not, they have limited power to intervene: Landowners in Texas have broad freedom to develop their own land, particularly outside city limits.
Still, some of Musk’s ideas have run into road blocks.
In Bastrop County, county officials said Musk had been trying to open a day care and an elementary school, called Ad Astra, on a former horse farm. School officials sought permission for as many as 50 students and teachers, said Hamner, the outgoing county commissioner, but were rejected because the septic system could accommodate only half that number.
No activity was visible during a visit this month. A call and email to the school were not returned.
“We have very few regulations here,” Hamner said. “We have wastewater, we have flood plain, we have culvert regulations. But we enforce them all.”
In Cameron County, Musk has also failed so far to rename the area where SpaceX is, a plan he proposed years ago.
“Creating the city of Starbase, Texas,” Musk wrote in 2021 on X, when it was still called Twitter.
He has had an easier time creating the physical layout of a de facto company town, and blasting rockets into space, than he has had trying to change the name of the land.
A spokesperson for the U.S. Geological Survey, which oversees the agency in charge of such names, said the proposal was still pending.
Still, SpaceX has effectively taken over the area, about a 40-minute drive from Brownsville along a truck-beaten, two-lane road. Aging ranch homes have been renovated, with Teslas parked in front. Workers stay in silver Airstream trailers lined up one next to another, or in small mobile homes.
Nearby, towering over the coastal landscape, rockets are being built.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Landowners; Electric vehicles; Murals; Coffeehouses; Political campaigns; Manufacturing; Presidential elections; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Coffeehouses Manufacturing Factories

Location: Texas; New York; United States--US; Bastrop County Texas; Cameron County Texas; California; Colorado River

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Boring Co; NAICS: 237990; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

Identifier / keyword: Cameron County (Tex); Restaurants; Corpus Christi (Tex); Colorado River; Colorado; Gulf Of Mexico; Abbott, Gregory W (1957 ); Motivation And Incentive Programs; Gentrification; Floods; Bastrop County (Tex); United States Geological Survey; United States; Boca Chica; Agriculture And Farming; Waste Materials And Disposal; Tesla Motors Inc; Private Spaceflight; Linkedin Corporation; Relocation Of Business; Factory Farming; Elections; Endangered And Extinct Species; Government Employees; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Bridges And Tunnels; Holiday, Ryan (1987 ); Airstream Division Of Thor Industries; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Uber Technologies Inc; Shopping And Retail; Presidential Election Of 2024; Musk Foundation; X (Formerly Twitter); United States Politics And Government; Texas; Names, Geographical; Music; Executives And Management (Theory); Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Wireless Communications; Local Government; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Education (K 12); Factories And Manufacturing; Area Planning And Renewal; Home Repairs And Improvements; Bastrop (Tex); Goodman, J David; Employee Fringe Benefits; Newspapers; Sewers And Sewage; Starlink Satellite Constellation (Spacex); Space And Astronomy; Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Trump, Donald J; Travel And Vacations; Mines And Mining; France; Building (Construction); Conservation Of Resources; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Rocket Science And Propulsion; Austin (Tex); Names, Organizational; Boredom; Brownsville (Tex); Coffeehouses; New York Times

Title: As Elon Musk Moved to the Right, His Businesses Moved to Texas

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 22, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3131998451

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-elon-musk-moved-right-his-businesses-texas/docview/3131998451/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Broadway, First Class and Spas For Realtor Group's Executives: [National Desk]

Author: Kamin, Debra

Publication info: Kamin, Debra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/broadway-first-class-spas-realtor-groups/docview/3130519275/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The National Association of Realtors, a nonprofit trade organization, offers lavish perks and payouts to its executive staff and its leaders.
When he became the chief executive of the National Association of Realtors seven years ago, Bob Goldberg negotiated a package of gold-plated perks.
N.A.R., the largest trade organization in the country, agreed to cover Mr. Goldberg's membership dues for private clubs in both Chicago and Washington and a country club of his choice, including an initiation fee of up to $ 75,000. He would use all three clubs "primarily for business purposes," according to the contract he negotiated with the organization.
The group would also pay for first-class airline tickets when he traveled for business and, once a month, for a round-trip first-class ticket for his wife. He was given a $ 1,500 monthly car allowance and $ 2,250 a month to cover utilities and insurance at his pied-à-terre in Chicago, where N.A.R. has its headquarters. N.A.R. even agreed to pay for a pet sitter to watch his dogs when Mr. Goldberg was away from his home outside Washington on business.
The extras came on top of his $ 1.2 million salary that would, according to N.A.R.'s tax returns, grow to $ 2.6 million in five years.
The generous compensation, a New York Times investigation found, is in line with a free-spending culture at N.A.R., which for a century has dominated the American housing industry, policing access to home listings and setting rules about commissions. It even owns the trademark to the word "Realtor."
Interviews with current and former employees, members and elected leaders, as well as tax records and Mr. Goldberg's 2017 employment contract, paint a portrait of a nonprofit organization where leaders have come to expect lavish spending and benefits the day they step into the job.
The group's president, president-elect and first vice president are elected by members and receive annual six-figure payments, tax records show. N.A.R. refers to officers as "volunteers." They have been given corporate credit cards, and on work trips, they have racked up charges from expensive dinners, golf outings, spa treatments and sports tickets, The Times found.
When the smash hit "Hamilton" opened on Broadway in 2015, many N.A.R. leaders used those cards to buy tickets for themselves and relatives while they were in New York City for a conference, according to two former staffers familiar with the organization's budget. At the time, tickets could run in the low four figures. Like the other former staffers and elected leaders interviewed for this story, they requested anonymity because they continue to work in the industry and fear retaliation.
Mantill Williams, a spokesman for N.A.R., said that the group's elected leaders "raise their hands to serve the industry," a job that "requires a substantial time commitment, personal sacrifice and significant travel." He did not address specific questions about perks or spending on items such as massages and tickets, or how the spending aligns with its goals as a nonprofit trade organization.
Mr. Goldberg, who resigned as chief executive late last year, did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Seven lawyers who specialize in nonprofit law said the group's spending not only appears excessive but also may run afoul of tax law. Several said N.A.R.'s spending is known among watchers of nonprofits.
"It is highly unusual -- I would even say virtually unheard-of -- for volunteer leaders and officers to receive compensation at those levels," said Jeff Tenenbaum, a nonprofit lawyer in Washington, D.C. After a landmark price-fixing case last year, he added, scrutiny on the organization was high. "Many of us who practice association antitrust law have always wondered, How can they get away with this?"
Through its subsidiaries in local markets, N.A.R. oversees a network of databases that list homes for sale, and most real estate agents cannot effectively do their jobs without access to these databases. The organization has 1.5 million members, whose dues generate 87 percent of its revenue, tax records show. To be a member, every Realtor in the United States must pay a bundle of dues of about $ 800 a year.
N.A.R. is not a charitable group but a nonprofit trade organization and such groups can fly under the radar of regulators, said Carrie Pollak, a lawyer based in Ithaca, N.Y., who specializes in nonprofit law.
"The rules are very strict, but almost never enforced," Ms. Pollak said.
Trade groups and charities are governed by a similar set of laws that prohibit people who work for a nonprofit from using its funds for their personal benefit. The violation is called private inurement, which can occur even when the spending is in connection with a business trip or event.
Audrey Chisholm, a lawyer who founded the nonprofit-focused Chisholm Law Firm in Orlando, Fla., said leaders in nonprofit, tax-exempt organizations need to tread carefully when it comes to spending company money.
"If an organization is engaging in private inurement, and individuals are benefiting themselves beyond what's considered reasonable, that would be grounds to lose their tax exemption," she said.
'All-Expenses-Paid Free Vacation'
Mr. Goldberg had been a senior vice president at N.A.R. for more than 20 years before he took over as chief executive in 2017. His dogs -- including a miniature pinscher, Tuffy, and a dachshund, Fonzie -- would sometimes show up on Zoom calls, employees said.
And N.A.R. would pick up the tab for the dogs' care when business took Mr. Goldberg from his home in Clarksville, Md., according to his contract. He traveled to the group's Chicago headquarters about once or twice a month, three former employees who worked with him said.
Many of N.A.R.'s elected leaders got first-class air travel perks, too, and could take their spouses on business trips, three former leaders said.
Realtors can spend decades climbing N.A.R.'s political structure, from local leadership boards up to the national board, which has one-year terms.
The most recent tax records available show that the president was given more than $ 400,000 in 2022. The president-elect received more than $ 265,000.
Ms. Chisholm said that such high compensation for officers that N.A.R. calls volunteers raises red flags.
"In our industry, when we use the term 'volunteer,' that means an unpaid person," she said. "Sure, they can be reimbursed for travel or some reasonable expense, but those are significant amounts that would look to most people like a salary."
The payments and perks have become an incentive for Realtors to run for N.A.R. leadership, said Rob Hahn, a real estate strategist who writes a newsletter for the industry, Notorious ROB. "For a lot of people, as you rise in leadership, travel allowances become an all-expenses-paid free vacation," he said.
At N.A.R. conventions, former elected leaders said, they were encouraged to relax. At the St. Regis Hotel in Dana Point, Calif., in 2013, elected officials golfed on N.A.R.'s dime. When they stayed at the Montage Laguna Beach in 2021, they enjoyed massages at the hotel spa. In Chicago, they got tickets to see the Cubs and the Blackhawks. And at convention after convention, in San Diego, Boston, New Orleans and more, there were lavish dinners, sometimes with $ 300 bottles of wine.
Business trips included a car and driver for at least the president and vice president. During the organization's two major annual gatherings, luxury hotel suites came with fully stocked bars.
Asked about the compensation given to the volunteer elected officials, Mr. Williams, the N.A.R. spokesman, explained that the money was for travel expense reimbursements and "administrative stipends" -- which he later explained were payments meant to offset the work they missed as Realtors when performing their roles as elected officials. "They hold their N.A.R. role in addition to their jobs as real estate professionals," he wrote.
Three former elected officials told The Times that they never or very rarely filed travel expenses for reimbursement while in office. That's because they used their N.A.R. credit cards, and bills went directly to the organization.
At annual summer leadership retreats, the former elected leaders said, attendees were given resort stipends of about $ 500. In 2018, the venue was the Coeur d'Alene Resort in Idaho; in 2021, it was the Montage Laguna Beach. The stipends could be spent on anything: rounds on the golf course, facials at the spa, even souvenirs at the gift shop. Spouses got the same perk.
There was at least one occasion when the organization curbed spending. So many N.A.R. leaders bought "Hamilton" tickets that bookkeepers began tracking the cash outflow a bit more carefully afterward, two former employees said, asking for the proper filing of receipts and cracking down on purchases for family members of leaders.
'Consultants' and 'Former Officers'
In 2022, N.A.R.'s senior vice president of government affairs earned more than $ 1 million, and the chief legal officer earned more than $ 967,000, tax records show.
In addition, the organization has kept former employees on the payroll as consultants for years after they resign. N.A.R.'s tax documents for 2023, the year Mr. Goldberg resigned, are not yet publicly available. But on his LinkedIn profile, Mr. Goldberg now identifies himself as an "executive consultant" for the association.
His predecessor has earned $ 250,000 a year as a "former officer/consultant" since 2019, according to tax records. A former chief advocacy officer also earned more than $ 300,000 in 2022 as a "former officer," according to tax records.
It was not clear what the former executives now do for N.A.R. Asked about executive salaries, Mr. Williams said N.A.R. used an outside consultant to help set its compensation. Asked if Mr. Goldberg remains on N.A.R.'s payroll, he declined to comment and said N.A.R. also would not disclose the salary of his successor as chief executive, Nykia Wright.
'What Am I Paying For?'
Last year, The Times revealed sexual harassment allegations against top N.A.R. leadership. And a successful lawsuit brought by home sellers in Missouri over inflated commissions has battered the organization's reputation and deflated its influence.
N.A.R. agreed to a $ 418 million settlement with the home sellers in March. As part of that deal, it changed the way commissions are paid, a move that has, according to some early surveys, forced commissions downward across the board and has substantially slashed the income of many N.A.R. members.
The organization also raised dues in 2024, and continued to charge an additional $ 45 fee to pay for a television advertising campaign meant to promote a positive image of Realtors.
Members have mobilized to legally challenge the bundle of fees. Three agents in Michigan filed a class-action lawsuit in August against N.A.R., claiming that the requirement that all Realtors in Michigan join their local, state and national associations represented an antitrust violation. In the last month, two more brokers -- one in Pennsylvania and one in California -- have also sued, saying that the requirement that agents join N.A.R. and its subsidiaries to get access to listing databases constituted "forced membership."
Mr. Williams, the N.A.R. spokesman, defended the practice of requiring membership at three levels, saying the system offers members "access to localized resources like trainings and detailed market research while also benefiting from a national voice, a unified advocacy platform and, most importantly, a single code of ethics." He declined to address the lawsuits from agents.
Members may incur more fees. The first installment of the settlement, about $ 200 million, is due early next year. To help pay the settlement, N.A.R. is considering charging for educational programs that had previously been free, Ms. Wright told elected leaders during a confidential budget call in October. (The Times obtained a recording of the call.)
Many Realtors say they are already feeling squeezed and have received little in return.
"For a long time, Realtors were told: You have to pay these dues and it's mandatory, but N.A.R. is looking out for you and protecting your interests," said Mr. Hahn, the newsletter writer. "So when N.A.R. gets its ass kicked in every lawsuit and then throws brokers under the bus, it's like, what am I paying for?"
Jen McDonald, 55, a broker in Reno, Nev., agreed. She has been a member for 24 years. "I don't think they defended us," she said. "I think they defended themselves."
Photograph Bob Goldberg resigned last year from the Realtors group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS) (A1); Bob Goldberg became chief executive of the National Association of Realtors in 2017. His goldplated perks raised eyebrows in the world of nonprofits. Above, an N.A.R. conference in 2021.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS; NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS); Mr. Goldberg flew first class for the N.A.R. Tickets to Cubs games in Chicago, right, and to "Hamilton" on Broadway, left, were among perks doled out by the group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ERIN HOOLEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A20) This article appeared in print on page A1, A20.

Subject: Compensation; Employees; Resignations; Resorts & spas; Leadership; Nonprofit organizations; Wages & salaries; Executives; Perquisites

Business indexing term: Subject: Compensation Employees Resignations Resorts & spas Leadership Wages & salaries Executives Perquisites

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Laguna Beach California

People: Goldberg, Bob

Company / organization: Name: National Association of Realtors; NAICS: 813910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/18/realestate/national-association-realtors-spending.html

Title: Broadway, First Class and Spas For Realtor Group's Executives:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 20, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3130519275

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/broadway-first-class-spas-realtor-groups/doc view/3130519275/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Chauffeured Cars and Broadway Tickets: Inside the National Realtors Group

Author: Kamin, Debra

Publication info: Kamin, Debra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chauffeured-cars-broadway-tickets-inside-national/docview/3130473900/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

When he became chief executive of the National Association of Realtors seven years ago, Bob Goldberg negotiated a package of gold-plated perks.
NAR, the largest trade organization in the country, agreed to cover Goldberg’s membership dues for private clubs in both Chicago and Washington and a country club of his choice, including an initiation fee of up to $75,000. He would use all three clubs “primarily for business purposes,” according to the contract he negotiated with the organization.
The group would also pay for first-class airline tickets when he traveled for business and, once a month, for a round-trip first-class ticket for his wife. He was given a $1,500 monthly car allowance and $2,250 a month to cover utilities and insurance at his pied-à-terre in Chicago, where NAR has its headquarters. NAR even agreed to pay for a pet sitter to watch his dogs when Goldberg was away from his home outside Washington on business.
The extras came on top of his $1.2 million salary that would, according to NAR’s tax returns, grow to $2.6 million in five years.
The generous compensation, a New York Times investigation found, is in line with a free-spending culture at NAR, which for a century has dominated the American housing industry, policing access to home listings and setting rules about commissions. It even owns the trademark to the word “Realtor.”
Interviews with current and former employees, members and elected leaders, as well as tax records and Goldberg’s 2017 employment contract, paint a portrait of a nonprofit organization where leaders have come to expect lavish spending and benefits the day they step into the job.
The group’s president, president-elect and first vice president are elected by members and receive annual six-figure payments, tax records show. NAR refers to officers as “volunteers.” They have been given corporate credit cards, and on work trips, they have racked up charges from expensive dinners, golf outings, spa treatments and sports tickets, the Times found.
When the smash hit “Hamilton” opened on Broadway in 2015, many NAR leaders used those cards to buy tickets for themselves and relatives while they were in New York City for a conference, according to two former staffers familiar with the organization’s budget. At the time, tickets could run in the low four figures. Like the other former staffers and elected leaders interviewed for this story, they requested anonymity because they continue to work in the industry and fear retaliation.
Mantill Williams, a spokesperson for NAR, said that the group’s elected leaders “raise their hands to serve the industry,” a job that “requires a substantial time commitment, personal sacrifice and significant travel.” He did not address specific questions about perks or spending on items such as massages and tickets, or how the spending aligns with its goals as a nonprofit trade organization.
Goldberg, who resigned as CEO late last year, did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Seven lawyers who specialize in nonprofit law said the group’s spending not only appears excessive but also may run afoul of tax law. Several said NAR’s spending is known among watchers of nonprofits.
“It is highly unusual — I would even say virtually unheard-of — for volunteer leaders and officers to receive compensation at those levels,” said Jeff Tenenbaum, a nonprofit lawyer in Washington, D.C. After a landmark price-fixing case last year, he added, scrutiny on the organization was high. “Many of us who practice association antitrust law have always wondered, How can they get away with this?”
Through its subsidiaries in local markets, NAR oversees a network of databases that list homes for sale, and most real estate agents cannot effectively do their jobs without access to these databases. The organization has 1.5 million members, whose dues generate 87% of its revenue, tax records show. To be a member, every Realtor in the United States must pay a bundle of dues of about $800 a year.
NAR is not a charitable group but a nonprofit trade organization, and such groups can fly under the radar of regulators, said Carrie Pollak, a lawyer based in Ithaca, New York, who specializes in nonprofit law.
“The rules are very strict, but almost never enforced,” Pollak said.
Trade groups and charities are governed by a similar set of laws that prohibit people who work for a nonprofit from using its funds for their personal benefit. The violation is called private inurement, which can occur even when the spending is in connection with a business trip or event.
Audrey Chisholm, a lawyer who founded the nonprofit-focused Chisholm Law Firm in Orlando, Florida, said leaders in nonprofit, tax-exempt organizations need to tread carefully when it comes to spending company money.
“If an organization is engaging in private inurement, and individuals are benefiting themselves beyond what’s considered reasonable, that would be grounds to lose their tax exemption,” she said.
‘All-Expenses-Paid Free Vacation’
Goldberg had been a senior vice president at NAR for more than 20 years before he took over as chief executive in 2017. His dogs — including a miniature pinscher, Tuffy, and a dachshund, Fonzie — would sometimes show up on Zoom calls, employees said.
And NAR would pick up the tab for the dogs’ care when business took Goldberg from his home in Clarksville, Maryland, according to his contract. He traveled to the group’s Chicago headquarters about once or twice a month, three former employees who worked with him said.
Many of NAR’s elected leaders got first-class air travel perks, too, and could take their spouses on business trips, three former leaders said.
Realtors can spend decades climbing NAR’s political structure, from local leadership boards up to the national board, which has one-year terms.
The most recent tax records available show that the president was given more than $400,000 in 2022. The president-elect received more than $265,000.
Chisholm said that such high compensation for officers that NAR calls volunteers raises red flags.
“In our industry, when we use the term ‘volunteer,’ that means an unpaid person,” she said. “Sure, they can be reimbursed for travel or some reasonable expense, but those are significant amounts that would look to most people like a salary.”
The payments and perks have become an incentive for Realtors to run for NAR leadership, said Rob Hahn, a real estate strategist who writes a newsletter for the industry, Notorious ROB. “For a lot of people, as you rise in leadership, travel allowances become an all-expenses-paid free vacation,” he said.
At NAR conventions, former elected leaders said, they were encouraged to relax. At the St. Regis Hotel in Dana Point, California, in 2013, elected officials golfed on NAR’s dime. When they stayed at the Montage Laguna Beach in 2021, they enjoyed massages at the hotel spa. In Chicago, they got tickets to see the Cubs and the Blackhawks. And at convention after convention, in San Diego, Boston, New Orleans and more, there were lavish dinners, sometimes with $300 bottles of wine.
Business trips included a car and driver for at least the president and vice president. During the organization’s two major annual gatherings, luxury hotel suites came with fully stocked bars.
Asked about the compensation given to the volunteer elected officials, Williams, the NAR spokesperson, explained that the money was for travel expense reimbursements and “administrative stipends” — which he later explained were payments meant to offset the work they missed as Realtors when performing their roles as elected officials. “They hold their NAR role in addition to their jobs as real estate professionals,” he wrote.
Three former elected officials told the Times that they never or very rarely filed travel expenses for reimbursement while in office. That’s because they used their NAR credit cards, and bills went directly to the organization.
At annual summer leadership retreats, the former elected leaders said, attendees were given resort stipends of about $500. In 2018, the venue was the Coeur d’Alene Resort in Idaho; in 2021, it was the Montage Laguna Beach. The stipends could be spent on anything: rounds on the golf course, facials at the spa, even souvenirs at the gift shop. Spouses got the same perk.
There was at least one occasion when the organization curbed spending. So many NAR leaders bought “Hamilton” tickets that bookkeepers began tracking the cash outflow a bit more carefully afterward, two former employees said, asking for the proper filing of receipts and cracking down on purchases for family members of leaders.
‘Consultants’ and ‘Former Officers’
In 2022, NAR’s senior vice president of government affairs earned more than $1 million, and the chief legal officer earned more than $967,000, tax records show.
In addition, the organization has kept former employees on the payroll as consultants for years after they resign. NAR’s tax documents for 2023, the year Goldberg resigned, are not yet publicly available. But on his LinkedIn profile, Goldberg now identifies himself as an “executive consultant” for the association.
His predecessor has earned $250,000 a year as a “former officer/consultant” since 2019, according to tax records. A former chief advocacy officer also earned more than $300,000 in 2022 as a “former officer,” according to tax records.
It was not clear what the former executives now do for NAR. Asked about executive salaries, Williams said NAR used an outside consultant to help set its compensation. Asked if Goldberg remains on NAR’s payroll, he declined to comment and said NAR also would not disclose the salary of his successor as chief executive, Nykia Wright.
‘What Am I Paying For?’
Last year, the Times revealed sexual harassment allegations against top NAR leadership. And a successful lawsuit brought by home sellers in Missouri over inflated commissions has battered the organization’s reputation and deflated its influence.
NAR agreed to a $418 million settlement with the home sellers in March. As part of that deal, it changed the way commissions are paid, a move that has, according to some early surveys, forced commissions downward across the board and has substantially slashed the income of many NAR members.
The organization also raised dues in 2024, and continued to charge an additional $45 fee to pay for a television advertising campaign meant to promote a positive image of Realtors.
Members have mobilized to legally challenge the bundle of fees. Three agents in Michigan filed a class-action lawsuit in August against NAR, claiming that the requirement that all Realtors in Michigan join their local, state and national associations represented an antitrust violation. In the last month, two more brokers — one in Pennsylvania and one in California — have also sued, saying that the requirement that agents join NAR and its subsidiaries to get access to listing databases constituted “forced membership.”
Williams, the NAR spokesperson, defended the practice of requiring membership at three levels, saying the system offers members “access to localized resources like trainings and detailed market research while also benefiting from a national voice, a unified advocacy platform and, most importantly, a single code of ethics.” He declined to address the lawsuits from agents.
Members may incur more fees. The first installment of the settlement, about $200 million, is due early next year. To help pay the settlement, NAR is considering charging for educational programs that had previously been free, Wright told elected leaders during a confidential budget call in October. (The Times obtained a recording of the call.)
Many Realtors say they are feeling squeezed and have received little in return.
“For a long time, Realtors were told: You have to pay these dues and it’s mandatory, but NAR is looking out for you and protecting your interests,” said Hahn, the newsletter writer. “So when NAR gets its ass kicked in every lawsuit and then throws brokers under the bus, it’s like, what am I paying for?”
Jen McDonald, 55, a broker in Reno, Nevada, agreed. She has been a member for 24 years. “I don’t think they defended us,” she said. “I think they defended themselves.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Compensation; Tax exempt organizations; Employees; Resorts & spas; Resignations; Leadership; Travel; Volunteers; Public officials; Nonprofit organizations; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Compensation Tax exempt organizations Employees Resorts & spas Resignations Leadership Wages & salaries

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Laguna Beach California

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: National Association of Realtors; NAICS: 813910

Identifier / keyword: United States; Philanthropy; San Diego (Calif); Government Contracts And Procurement; Appointments And Executive Changes; Consultants; Real Estate Brokers; Goldberg, Robert A (1957 ); Privacy; Pets; Florida; Laguna Beach (Calif); New York City; Beaches; Linkedin Corporation; Nevada; Politics And Government; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Automobiles; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Nonprofit Organizations; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Dana Point (Calif); Missouri; Gold; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Presidential Election Of 2024; Customer Relations; Business Travel; Wages And Salaries; Expense Accounts; Chicago Cubs; Dogs; Pennsylvania; Michigan; Advertising And Marketing; Taxation; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Law And Legislation; News And News Media; Reno (Nev); Spas; National Assn Of Realtors; Volunteers And Community Service; Theater; Education (K 12); Orlando (Fla); Ithaca (Ny); Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; States (Us); Newspapers; Executive Compensation; Idaho; Broadway (Manhattan, Ny); Nepotism; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Television; Travel And Vacations; Theater (Broadway); New Orleans (La); Box Office Sales; Clarksville (Mo); Compensation For Damages (Law); Washington (Dc); Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Business; Chicago (Ill); St Regis Hotel (Nyc); Sporting Goods And Equipment; Campaign Finance; New York Times; Maryland; Sexual Harassment; Luxury Goods And Services; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Hotels And Travel Lodgings

Title: Chauffeured Cars and Broadway Tickets: Inside the National Realtors Group

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 19, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3130473900

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chauffeured-cars-broadway-tickets-inside-national/docview/3130473900/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump Chooses Gas Executive to Lead Energy Department: [National Desk]

Author: Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa

Publication info: Davenport, Coral; Friedman, Lisa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-chooses-gas-executive-lead-energy/docview/3129063940/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Chris Wright is a TV-ready evangelist for fossil fuels who lacks government experience.
President-elect Donald J. Trump has tapped Chris Wright, chief executive of Liberty Energy, a fracking company based in Denver, as his choice for secretary of energy.
Mr. Wright, who calls himself "a tech nerd turned entrepreneur," is a media-friendly evangelist for fossil fuels who promotes a feel-good message that oil and gas can lift people out of poverty, while disparaging climate science.
In a video posted on LinkedIn last year, Mr. Wright declared, "There is no climate crisis, and we're not in the midst of an energy transition either."
Mr. Wright, who has no government experience, caught the attention of Mr. Trump in part through his appearances on Fox News. He also appears frequently on podcasts and social media videos, often using language and imagery associated with progressive causes to link oil and gas with issues like the fight for women's equality.
Mr. Trump announced Mr. Wright's appointment in a statement and praised him as a "leading technologist and entrepreneur in energy." He said in addition to leading the Energy Department, Mr. Wright would also be a member of the newly formed council of national energy.
"He has worked in nuclear, solar, geothermal, and oil and gas," Mr. Trump wrote, referring to Mr. Wright. "Most significantly, Chris was one of the pioneers who helped launch the American shale revolution that fueled American energy independence, and transformed the global energy markets and geopolitics."
Mr. Wright is close to Harold G. Hamm, the billionaire founder of Continental Resources who donated nearly $ 5 million to Mr. Trump since 2023 and is playing a role in the transition.
Mr. Wright was a director of the Domestic Energy Producers Alliance, a lobbying group that Mr. Hamm founded. The Wall Street Journal described the alliance as a "counterweight" to larger oil industry groups that recognize that climate change is caused by human activity and support some action to address it.
Mr. Hamm told Hart Energy, an online publication, that Mr. Wright was his top choice to lead the Energy Department.
In August, Mr. Wright's wife, Liz Wright, co-hosted a fund-raiser in Montana for Mr. Trump. Campaign finance records show that Chris Wright and Liz Wright donated $ 175,000 apiece to Mr. Trump's joint fund-raising campaign committee, called Trump 47.
The core mission of the Energy Department is ensuring the safety of the country's nuclear arsenal. But under President Biden, the agency has also played a large role in leading the energy transition away from fossil fuels and toward wind, solar, nuclear and other forms of noncarbon energy.
As one of his first tasks, Mr. Wright is expected to end a Biden administration pause on new liquefied natural gas export terminals. A judge blocked the pause and the Biden administration did approve at least one export permit, but Republicans and the oil and gas industry have accused the administration of deliberately stalling new approvals.
"We look forward to working with him once confirmed to bolster American geopolitical strength by lifting D.O.E.'s pause on L.N.G. permits and ensuring the open access of American energy for our allies around the world," said Mike Sommers, the president of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents oil companies, in a statement.
Climate activists criticized the selection of a fossil fuel executive at a time when they say the country needs to invest more heavily in clean energy.
"Like his new boss, Donald Trump, Wright denies the threat of the scientifically proven climate crisis," said Lori Lodes, the executive director of Climate Power, an environmental nonprofit group. She noted that renewable energy was cheaper to produce than fossil fuels, in part because of the Inflation Reduction Act, a 2022 law pumping hundreds of billions of dollars into wind, solar and other clean energy. Mr. Trump wants Congress to repeal it.
"No matter who they voted for, Americans want cheaper, cleaner energy options," Ms. Lodes said.
Earlier this week Mr. Trump named Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota to lead the Interior Department and chair the new national energy council. Mr. Trump said the team "will drive U.S. energy dominance, which will drive down inflation, win the A.I. arms race with China (and others) and expand American diplomatic power to end wars all across the world."
The image of Mr. Wright, who often appears in videos wearing button-down shirts, designer sneakers and no jacket or tie, runs counter to the stereotype of the conservative oil executive.
Yet Mr. Wright's underlying message lines up almost exactly with Mr. Trump's: fossil fuels are the critical to growing the economy and climate change is a hoax -- or at least, fears of it are overblown.
The president-elect has pledged to "drill, baby drill," called climate change a scam and promised to erase regulations designed to curb the fossil fuel pollution that is dangerously heating the planet.
Mr. Wright's rhetoric is less provocative but essentially conveys the same ideas.
On an episode of the podcast "Flipping the Barrel," Mr. Wright suggested that oil and gas could liberate poor, rural women in developing economies from having to spend hours gathering fuel, including dung, for cookstoves.
"I've been to 55 countries," he said. "Low income, poor rural areas and traditional societies. Those humans have the same hearts and dreams, want to take care of their kids."
"A third of humanity doesn't have access to modern energy, and what's the biggest impediment to that last third of humanity getting energy right now?" he said. "An irrational and way exaggerated fear of climate change."
At the United Nations climate summit currently taking place in Baku, Azerbaijan, the main topic is how to help developing nations invest in solar, wind and other clean energy and avoid a reliance on fossil fuels.
Scientists have said that the United States and other major economies must stop developing new oil and gas projects to avert the most catastrophic effects of global warming. The burning of oil, gas and coal is the main driver of climate change.
The current year is shaping up to be the hottest on record, and researchers say the world is on track for dangerous levels of warming this century. Extreme weather linked to climate change is no longer a distant threat; heat waves, floods, drought and hurricanes have caused death and destruction across the globe this year.
People familiar with the thinking of Mr. Trump's transition team said that among Mr. Wright's appealing qualities was his oft-told "conversion" story about how he grew up believing that consuming too much oil and gas could be dangerous to humanity -- and then later discovered the virtues of abundant oil and gas.
In the podcast, he described being told by a physics professor in high school that oil and gas were running out. Later, however, as an engineering student in graduate school, he learned about hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the technology of injecting water, chemicals and sand at high pressure into rock to release oil and gas inaccessible through conventional drilling. Over the past decade, fracking has created an American oil and gas boom. Environmentalists worry that fracking can contaminate groundwater.
"There's a whole lot more oil and gas underground than I certainly thought there was," said Mr. Wright.
Mr. Wright, who studied engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, founded Pinnacle Technologies in 1992, a company focused on providing shale gas extraction services. From 2000 to 2006 he was chairman of Stroud Energy, an early shale gas producer, according to his website. And in 2011, he founded Liberty Energy, a $ 2.8 billion company that provides fracking equipment and services. Chris Wright, center, founded Liberty Energy, a fracking services company. He says oil and gas extraction can help reduce poverty. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A32.

Subject: Shale gas; Hydraulic fracturing; Political campaigns; Presidents; Geopolitics; Energy transition; Energy industry; Fossil fuels; Clean technology; Low income groups; Climate change

Business indexing term: Subject: Energy industry

Location: United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/16/climate/trump-picks-chris-wright.html

Title: Trump Chooses Gas Executive to Lead Energy Department:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.32

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 17, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3129063940

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-chooses-gas-executive-lead-energy/docview/3129063940/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lives Bound by a Fraud Case, Then by a Sinking Yacht: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Michael J. De La Merced

Publication info: Michael J. De La Merced. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lives-bound-fraud-case-then-sinking-yacht/docview/3129063924/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For Mike Lynch, June 6 was a day more than a decade in the making.
Standing in a courtroom in San Francisco, the British software mogul had just been found not guilty of defrauding Hewlett-Packard in the sale of his software company, Autonomy. It was a case that, for more than a year, had kept him shuffling around a townhouse wearing an ankle bracelet in a city 5,300 miles from home.
Nearby, Christopher J. Morvillo, the veteran corporate lawyer who helped lead Mr. Lynch's legal team, also felt a huge wave of relief.
The two men had been joined at the hip for years to rebut HP's accusations in the United States and Britain. One legal expert compared the proceedings in San Francisco to Enron's in complexity, given the thousands of documents and accounting maneuvers at issue. An acquittal had seemed unlikely a year ago.
After leaving the courtroom, Mr. Lynch cut off his ankle bracelet. Mr. Morvillo turned to LinkedIn, writing his first-ever post to thank his colleagues and express his relief.
"And they all lived happily ever after ...." he wrote.
That happy ending didn't last long.
Less than three months later, Mr. Lynch and Mr. Morvillo, both 59, died aboard the tech magnate's family yacht, the Bayesian, when it foundered off the coast of Sicily. Five others died as well: Mr. Lynch's 18-year-old daughter, Hannah; Mr. Morvillo's wife, Neda; Jonathan Bloomer, a prominent British insurance executive; Mr. Bloomer's wife, Judy; and Recaldo Thomas, the ship's cook.
And in a bizarre coincidence, Stephen Chamberlain, a financial executive at Autonomy who was Mr. Lynch's co-defendant in San Francisco, was fatally struck in a hit-and-run in England days before.
Why the ship sank remains under investigation by Italian and British authorities. Numerous interviews with friends and associates, as well as public records, revealed what the men went through during their 12-year legal fight, and what they had planned after it ended.
An Adviser to the Prime Minister
Until recently, most Americans would probably not have recognized Mr. Lynch as a tech mogul. But in Britain, he had once been seen as a homegrown Bill Gates.
In 1996, Mr. Lynch founded Autonomy, a software company that analyzed messy reams of data like emails and online video for patterns that could help clients unearth hidden insights. By 2011, Autonomy had become one of Britain's biggest international tech companies, establishing its base in Cambridge, England, as a start-up hub.
That raised Mr. Lynch's profile as well, earning him royal honors; an adviser role to the prime minister at the time, David Cameron; and a seat on the board of the BBC.
His success was cemented when he sold Autonomy to HP for $ 11.1 billion in 2011, earning him hundreds of millions. But amid a revolt by HP shareholders and analysts about the size and wisdom of the deal, the tech giant took an $ 8.8 billion write-down the next year, a move that led some to declare the deal among the worst in corporate history, and accused Mr. Lynch of illegally hiding the true shape of Autonomy by inflating its sales.
It was then that Mr. Morvillo took notice of Autonomy's problems.
The conflict seemed like a promising opportunity for the white-collar defense lawyer in the New York office of Clifford Chance, a huge international firm. Mr. Morvillo sent a note to a partner in Britain just before Thanksgiving in 2012. Was there an opening to represent either HP or Autonomy?
Fifteen minutes later, his colleague wrote back: When could he fly to London?
Mr. Morvillo flew over a few days later for what he thought was going to be a week's work. He ended up spending years commuting between New York and London.
"It's covered one-third of my career," Mr. Morvillo said on the legal podcast "For the Defense With David Oscar Markus" in an episode that was published a week before the Bayesian sank. "It has been a constant presence in my life for the last 12 years."
Mr. Lynch and Mr. Morvillo were a study in contrasts. The British executive was cool but intense, and known for a hard-charging leadership style that federal prosecutors later tried to make hay of. But the American lawyer was known for being a calm presence, largely eschewing over-the-top displays.
"He had a judgment and a steadiness that you need when you're in a 12-year marathon," Gary Lincenberg, who represented Mr. Chamberlain, said of Mr. Morvillo.
As the scope of HP's allegations -- that Autonomy executives had manipulated earnings, overstating revenue by backdating contracts and disguising low-margin hardware sales as higher-margin software ones -- took shape, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Morvillo and an army of lawyers assembled a defense: Mr. Lynch had done nothing wrong, and HP was to blame for Autonomy's woes.
A mathematician by training, Mr. Lynch often asked his legal team what the odds were for success. The next several years provided a disheartening picture.
In 2016, American prosecutors accused Sushovan Hussain, Autonomy's chief financial officer, of fraud. Mr. Lynch and Mr. Chamberlain were hit with similar charges in 2018. The former Autonomy chief also faced civil fraud claims in London by a successor company to HP.
Mr. Hussain was convicted and sentenced to nearly six years in prison. The judge overseeing Mr. Lynch's British trial found him liable.
The same day that Mr. Lynch lost his civil battle, the British government approved his extradition to the United States to stand trial on criminal charges.
Mr. Morvillo kept on the move, jetting to San Francisco to observe the Hussain trial and to London for Mr. Lynch's civil trial. By one colleague's estimate, he had made up to 100 flights over the years.
Once Mr. Lynch arrived in San Francisco in May 2023, he faced another surprise. The presiding judge ordered that he be placed under house arrest given his potential flight risk, as well as round-the-clock security on his dime. (The British entrepreneur later jokingly referred to the guards as his roommates.)
But Mr. Lynch stayed busy. His mornings were spent checking on his venture capital firm and on researchers in Cambridge, whose work on artificial intelligence and hearing loss he was funding. Then he turned to his legal defense, peppering Mr. Morvillo with questions.
For Mr. Morvillo, that meant a move to San Francisco, where he called a downtown hotel home for four months, away from his wife, Neda; his dog; and two grown children.
"Neda and Chris lived their lives as devoted, loving parents who always put their daughters and families first," the Morvillo family said in a statement. "Their passing is a tremendous loss for our family and for the countless people who knew and loved them both."
The Defense Takes a Risk
Heading into court, his legal team worried that Mr. Lynch was likely to serve life in prison.
The trial was long and dry, with 42 witnesses who were asked about what could sometimes be thousands of pages of documents. Jurors fell asleep. Every Thursday night, the Lynch legal team regrouped at dinner, over bottles of Sea Smoke Cellars pinot wine, Mr. Morvillo's preference.
Mr. Lynch and his lawyers increasingly believed that jurors might find the Autonomy chief hard-driving -- but in a way similar to other visionary tech giants like Elon Musk or Bill Gates.
The team decided to take a risk: Mr. Lynch would take the stand as the last witness. Questioning him for the defense was Mr. Morvillo, who by now had a feel for how to direct his client in testimony. They spoke affably in front of the jury, including by comparing the discovery of Autonomy's troubles to taking a microscope to a spotless kitchen.
"I think his testimony was pivotal at the end of the day and probably is what won the day for us," Mr. Morvillo told the "For the Record" podcast.
Waiting for the verdict was excruciating. In the courtroom on June 6, Mr. Lynch kissed his wife, Angela Bacares, on the forehead before sitting down next to his lawyers. Mr. Morvillo told him to take things one day at a time.
Minutes later, the jury began to deliver the first of 15 "not guilty" verdicts.
That night, Mr. Lynch hosted a party for his legal team and his co-defendant, Mr. Chamberlain, at The Third Floor restaurant at the Jay Hotel in downtown San Francisco. In an emotional toast, Mr. Morvillo said that working the trial had been one of the legal team's life missions.
In his LinkedIn post, Mr. Morvillo thanked his wife and daughters for their support, adding, "I am so glad to be home."
Mr. Lynch flew back to Britain with big dreams. He wanted to refocus on investing and advocating Britain's technology industry.
Another priority was figuring out how to revamp an extradition treaty that he believed had unfairly sent him to the United States in chains. The day of his acquittal, he texted David Davis, a prominent British lawmaker who had protested the extradition.
"'We've got to deal with this treaty' were his first words to me," Mr. Davis said in an interview.
Back home -- over what Mr. Davis described as a "moderately alcoholic lunch" at Wiltons, a high-end restaurant in West London -- the two men discussed Mr. Lynch's increased compassion for the wrongfully convicted, spurred by his own legal battles.
Mr. Lynch still had other legal business. He was waiting to hear how much he had to pay in damages in the British civil fraud case brought by Hewlett Packard Enterprise, a successor to HP, which said he owed up to $ 4 billion. (Hewlett Packard Enterprise said last month that it was still pursuing damages against Mr. Lynch's estate.)
But first and foremost, Mr. Lynch wanted to do ... nothing.
He returned to Loudham Hall, his sprawling 16th-century estate in Suffolk, England, where he raised Red Poll cattle and other livestock, and held a garden party for friends to celebrate.
A Final Voyage
And then there was the Bayesian, the 184-foot superyacht that his family owned. Mr. Lynch had looked forward to cruising on the vessel -- named after a theorem for statistical analysis -- as a way to unplug and celebrate. Within weeks of acquittal, he asked his legal team to accompany him for several planned voyages.
Mr. Morvillo and his wife joined Mr. Lynch on the yacht in Italy -- with plans to fly to Greece afterward to meet their daughters, the Morvillo family said in a statement.
Afterward, the statement added, Mr. Morvillo intended to continue working "because he recognized that he had reached a new level in his career and knew, deservedly so, he would be highly sought after."
During the voyage, the yacht sliced through the waters off the Italian coastline, from Amalfi to the Eolian Sea, before ending up off Sicily. By Aug. 17, the trip was near its end: Mr. Lynch was preparing to return to London, where he was set to have a second lunch with Mr. Davis, the British lawmaker.
But bad news broke on Aug. 18: Mr. Chamberlain had been fatally hit by a car back home in England. Devastated, Mr. Morvillo messaged the Lynch team, telling one colleague to kiss his wife and children.
The next day, the Bayesian sank, and both Mr. Lynch and Mr. Morvillo were dead.
Photograph Top, from left, Mike Lynch and Christopher J. Morvillo, both of whom died in August when Mr. Lynch's family yacht sank near Sicily. Above, Mr. Lynch's body being retrieved. Below, Mr. Lynch with his daughter Hannah, who also died then. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN GURR/AFP; SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG; PERINI NAVI PRESS OFFICE/SHUTTERSTOCK; GETTY IMAGES; LOUIZA VRADI/REUTERS; REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU8.

Subject: Juries; Attorneys; Trials; Public prosecutors; Software industry; Court hearings & proceedings; Acquittals & mistrials; Prime ministers; Extradition; Fraud

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys Software industry

Location: New York; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; England; San Francisco California

People: Gates, Bill

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/16/business/mike-lynch-yacht-sinking.html

Title: Lives Bound by a Fraud Case, Then by a Sinking Yacht:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 17, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3129063924

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lives-bound-fraud-case-then-sinking-yacht/docview/3129063924/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A 'Wall Street Girly' Makes Money Talk Simple: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Smialek, Jeanna

Publication info: Smialek, Jeanna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wall-street-girly-makes-money-talk-simple/docview/3129063887/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Vivian Tu is one of a new wave of female influencers who are using TikTok and Instagram to spread the message of personal finance to millennials and Generation Z.
Back in August, when it looked like the Federal Reserve was about to cut interest rates for the first time in more than four years, Vivian Tu took to TikTok to explain to her roughly 2.6 million followers what that move by the central bank would mean for them.
"Fed Daddy has all but guaranteed to lower interest rates in September," she announced, trotting out her frequent nickname for Jerome H. Powell, the institution's chair. "Pros: When the Fed lowers interest rates, we'll see mortgages, car loans, personal and business loans, those rates will come down too."
Then in a clip in October, Ms. Tu -- who bills herself on social media as "Your Rich BFF" -- explained how to know whether to refinance a home loan, walking tens of thousands of viewers through a mortgage calculator. That clip is nestled in her feed next to a photo of Ms. Tu slapping high fives with the former pro basketball player Shaquille O'Neal, giving travel advice pulled from her European vacations, offering tips on shopping for designer handbags and sharing her thoughts on prenups.
Ms. Tu, 30, is creating what is often serious finance and economic content -- it just doesn't always look like it. She has mastered a candy-coated version of financial advice, with videos that embrace familiar TikTok formats like sassy clap-backs and makeup demonstrations, frequently delivered in on-point lash extensions and Instagrammable outfits.
In doing so, Ms. Tu has turned herself into something of a money role model for the TikTok generation, particularly the women whom she calls "besties." On her podcast, "Networth and Chill," which had more than two million downloads in its first season, she promises "no dry economics lessons, though I will teach you about economics, and how it affects you."
Ms. Tu has adopted the highly personal style of a modern TikTok influencer. She speaks passionately into the camera, outraged at a company ripping people off or excited about a new saving trick she's found to share. She pulls her content from her own life. And as she does it, she embraces the style of speech that a millennial woman in traditional broadcast might be scolded for: voice modulation, hand flicks, hair flips.
She sounds, in a word, girly.
"At first, I was like: 'Wow, I'm so lucky to be succeeding in spite of the fact that I'm a young woman who loves to wear a pink dress to an interview,"' she said during one at a SoHo events space, which she arrived to wearing sky-high wedge heels and a flowing maxi dress the hue of bubble gum. "But over time, I kind of came to the realization that like, I wasn't succeeding in spite of that. I was succeeding because of that."
Ms. Tu is one of several people pioneering a new model of personal economic and financial advice -- and where the plain-English pros of the past often popped up on places like CNBC and daytime television, this new generation is taking to TikTok and other social media to spread its message. While several of the most prominent accounts are run by men, many are by and for women.
It's like a small army of Suze Ormans, the TV-famous financial guru, for a new generation.
And even among a crowd of people who are professionally influential, Ms. Tu stands out. Besides her millions of followers and more than 30 million likes on TikTok, she has three million followers on Instagram and has been invited to the White House to meet with Vice President Kamala Harris and other administration officials about the impact of the Inflation Reduction Act, a piece of legislation meant to encourage investments in green energy technologies and cap prescription costs. (Ms. Tu made a video explaining the law and "what the heck that actually means for you.")
She has interviewed celebrities like the tennis player Venus Williams and the author and former "Top Chef" host Padma Lakshmi on career growth and female mentorship. She's been featured on Forbes's 30 Under 30 social media list. Soon after her book, "Rich AF," was published early this year, she was one of only two female authors on The New York Times's Top 10 Business Bestsellers list. The other was Oprah Winfrey.
"Your Favorite Wall Street Girly," as Ms. Tu describes herself, has also attracted the backing of financial heavy-hitters eager to reach her audience. Her sponsors include financial services companies including SoFi, along with consumer product firms like Marshalls and Instacart. Between her platforms and book deals, she said she is booked to make $ 7 million this year.
'They Want to Hear From a Peer'
Ms. Tu is the daughter of Chinese immigrants (her father worked in computer programming at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center; her mother in consulting and chemistry) who live just outside Washington, D.C.
Her entry onto Wall Street was a conventional one: She decided to angle for finance in college because it seemed like a secure way to make a living. "I didn't read fast enough to be a lawyer," she said. "When I paper-cut my hand, I almost feel like I'm going to pass out, so I wasn't going to be a doctor."
After graduating from the University of Chicago in 2016 with a dual degree in environmental studies and public policy concentrated in finance, she started out as a trader at J.P. Morgan, initially focused on industrial and energy companies. Her energy and her Excel skills attracted the attention of mentors like Jean Mah, her first manager, whom Ms. Tu would later call the "baddest chick in the room."
But two years into her job, the ground began to shift. She was moved into a different role, and her new manager seemed to discount her abilities because of her identity. According to Ms. Tu, he complained about how her nails click-clacked on the computer keyboard. At one point, he told her that she was "too girly" for the job. On another day, when she wore a long Ann Taylor cardigan to the office, he asked her if it was a kimono.
She wanted to quit on the spot.
Instead, she sought out Ms. Mah, who persuaded her not to do anything rash and to wait until the market closed that day, when they could talk about it in private. Ms. Mah then persuaded her to hang in until she could find a new job outside the firm, and helped her to land a sales position at BuzzFeed. "I thought she could do anything, because she was so hungry," Ms. Mah said recently. J.P. Morgan declined to comment on Ms. Tu's allegations about her manager.
The transition worked out. Ms. Tu is an extrovert who had worked as a club promoter in college, and her personality immediately clicked in sales. Within a few years, she said, she was earning more than $ 600,000 -- far more than she had ever made in finance. But by then, she began to sense that another career path might beckon.
Colleagues who knew about her Wall Street background began to seek her out for financial advice. She realized that she liked explaining 401(k)s and index funds in ways that her young colleagues found entertaining and relatable. "My work best friend said: I think you need to put this on the internet," Ms. Tu recalled. That friend, Allison Kim, helped her to edit a script for an initial video.
That's how she came to post her first TikTok, on New Year's Day in 2021.
"Welcome to RichTok," she said into the camera, introducing herself to the world in a clip that made fun of "sketchy" all-in-on-Bitcoin strategies and day trading. "I don't have any get-rich-quick schemes here, but I will help you with practical tips and knowledge on how to level up your financial literacy."
It quickly racked up hundreds of thousands of views.
"Neither of us was expecting it to go as viral as it did," Ms. Kim said. "It was like: This is the beginning of something huge."
And as Ms. Tu watched the numbers climb, she quickly noticed that she was attracting a diverse audience.
"It became very clear to me just based on the profile pictures of people commenting that it was a large swath of women," she said. "It was a large swath of people of color, members of the L.G.B.T.Q. community, people who grew up low income, immigrants."
She could, she thought, potentially speak to a crowd of people who "feel like the financial services industry has never, ever served them in the past."
It was a niche, and she began to lean into it.
"They want to hear from a peer; they want to hear from someone who looks like they could be anybody's college best friend," she said. "No one has talked to these audiences about money. And certainly not this generation."
A year and three months later, she quit BuzzFeed to become a full-time financial influencer.
The Rise of the 'Finfluencer'
Ms. Tu is not alone. She is part of a cottage industry of content creators who have begun to pump out economic, business and personal finance updates that are chatty and TikTok friendly. And while several of the most famous finance content creators are men, many of the largest accounts are both from and for women.
What Ms. Tu and her counterparts are doing isn't entirely new. For as long as there have been markets and modern economies, there have been what you might call finfluencers -- guides who broke down the wonky ways of high finance and macroeconomics for mass consumption.
And it has often been women who have tried to make nerdy financial ideas interesting and relatable to other women.
In the early 1800s, a British author named Jane Marcet explained the lessons of Adam Smith and David Ricardo through a set of "conversations" between two fictional women (one character convinced the other that political economy touched everything, including fashion). Starting from the 1980s, a group of Illinois women -- mostly in their 60s and 70s and called the "Beardstown Ladies" -- sold folksy investment books that featured trading advice alongside dinner recipes. Though they were eventually sued for mistakenly overstating their investment returns, their popularity kicked off a burst of interest in female investment clubs.
In the late 1990s, Suze Orman became a celebrity with best-selling books and a highly rated show on CNBC by marketing what The Times described in 2009 as very basic advice: "Track your spending. Stay out of debt. Take care of your car. Look into a Roth I.R.A."
Midway through the 2020s, it is perhaps no surprise that the modern version of nerd-to-table finance comes in heavily edited clips and snappy posts. And given that women -- who gained the ability to open a bank account independently in the United States only in 1974 -- make up a growing force on Wall Street, many of the topics they are tackling are increasingly more sophisticated.
Creators on TikTok and Instagram churn out videos on everything from why stocks are selling off to the Bank of Japan's interest rate setting to the weighted average cost of capital.
But even as the topics take a turn for the serious, it has become almost a meme for some personal finance and economics accounts to lean into loud femininity. One is run by a woman who strolls around New York City in bright pink makeup, explaining topics like foreign exchange and inflation in a delivery style that would make Cher Horowitz proud. (Others, including those with the biggest followings, are more focused on news-you-can-use personal finance issues, like flight discounts.)
It fits in with a broader online trend: Girl-coded media has been everywhere in recent years, from "girl dinners" to "hot girl walks." But female-targeting financial content could also have consequences if it continues to take off, because the gap that people like Ms. Tu are trying to fill is a real one. Women make up half the population but control just a third of America's wealth.
And it has long remained the case that women -- and especially women of color -- have been less educated in money management than men. In one recent study, men overall scored 25 percent better than women on financial literacy questions, and Black and Hispanic men scored 40 percent better than women in those groups.
And that comes alongside a lack of financial news consumption: Women are also less likely to follow financial news. Men accounted for about three in four Wall Street Journal readers in 2023, for instance, and The Financial Times's reader base has also historically leaned toward men.
"Women have been at a disadvantage when it comes to money for centuries," said Berna Anat, a fellow financial influencer and friend of Ms. Tu's. Ms. Tu often borrows a line from Ms. Anat that criticizes financial content as "male, pale and stale."
Meeting at the White House
The question is whether digital platforms will help to change the tide.
New outlets could spread information differently. It is unquestionably the case that young people are increasingly turning to social media platforms as a key news source.
Nearly half of 18- to 29-year-olds who use TikTok treat it as a source of political news, based on a recent survey by Pew Research Center, far above the more than 36 percent of users overall who use it for news. And Instagram users are also increasingly using that platform for news, as are those on LinkedIn and the video streaming platform Twitch.
That climbing relevance is lost on neither Washington nor Wall Street.
The Biden administration's digital strategy office brought Ms. Tu in as part of a group -- which also included people like the news wrap creator V Spehar and the vegan TikTokker Ashley Renne -- to talk about the Inflation Reduction Act. That move came as part of a push to step up outreach to influencers in general.
Christian Tom, the director of digital strategy for the White House, said that over the past four years, administration officials have invited creators in for briefings much the way they would invite the press, hoping to make sure they know what is happening and why it might matter for ordinary people.
"There is enormous value in working with digital creators who are able to help synthesize and share some of the pieces of legislation that otherwise can be complex for people," he said. "The way that people engage with content online has evolved."
The Risks of Misinformation
Finance companies are also aware of the clout influencers hold as tastemakers, and they regularly pay business-focused influencers like Ms. Tu.
But the heavy presence of sponsorships underscores a risk to this new model of news dissemination. While it is accessible and made to be appealing, it can be tied to for-profit companies -- and meant to sell a product -- in nontransparent ways. (When asked if she always discloses her sponsored content, Ms. Tu's spokespeople said she always does.)
Plus, it can be tough to distinguish facts from outright misinformation on social media. Many of the markers of legitimacy on a more traditional news website, like a well-known brand name and a professional interface, are stripped away. And misinformation can be especially hard to spot when it comes to complicated economy or finance claims that are tough to fact-check with a simple Google search.
Last year, for instance, a misleading set of posts arguing that America's economy was in worse shape than it was in the Great Depression went viral on TikTok and Instagram.
"People don't necessarily make the distinction between reliable news media and everything else," said Peter Adams, senior vice president of research and design at the News Literacy Project, explaining that people getting news from social media should be particularly wary of anything meant to play on their emotions. They should also distinguish between influencers and journalists who operate according to strict newsroom standards guides, he said.
Ms. Tu said she has tried to position herself as an alternative to less scrupulous accounts, and says she fact-checks and researches her posts.
"If there's anything that I even have an inkling of doubt about, I'll then go do a deep dive, and make sure that I can find at a minimum three reputable sources that back up my claims," she said.
She said she realized that there were limits to how much someone can become informed about complicated financial topics in a 45-second video. And the goal is not to step in for a financial adviser -- it is to draw a set of viewers who might not otherwise be getting that beneficial financial content, she said.
The way to do that, she thinks, is by recognizing that making financial information fun for a heavily female audience is not equivalent to dumbing it down. Ms. Tu said femininity and financial understanding are often portrayed as two things that do not go together. She pointed to movies like "Confessions of a Shopaholic," in which a shopping addict blows her money on designer clothes.
"The language we have used to talk about women and money, frankly, as a society is unkind," she said.
"People aren't stupid," she said. "We just haven't been explaining correctly."
And the manager who treated Ms. Tu like she herself was stupid once? He gets a shout-out on her book's dedication page, which is signed: "To the man who told me I was too girly to ever succeed in finance."
Photograph Above, Vivian Tu, who said she was booked to make $ 7 million this year. "I don't have any get-rich-quick schemes here," she said in her first TikTok. Left, examples on TikTok of how Ms. Tu candy-coats serious economic advice. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6); Above, Suze Orman, right, with Ann Curry on the "Today" show in 2001. Below, Berna Anat, a finfluencer, says content is "male, pale and stale." (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER KRAMER/NBCU; AMY SUSSMAN/INSTAGRAM) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Females; Interest rates; Women; Energy industry; Financial services; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Interest rates Energy industry Financial services Social networks

Company / organization: Name: JPMorgan Chase & Co; NAICS: 522110, 522292, 523150; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/09/business/vivian-tu-rich-af-personal-finance-tiktok-influencer.html

Title: A 'Wall Street Girly' Makes Money Talk Simple:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 17, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3129063887

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wall-street-girly-makes-money-talk-simple/docview/3129063887/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How a Broken Border Keeps Our Shopping Carts Full: [Correction]

Author: Eder, Steve; Ivory, Danielle; Valdes, Marcela

Publication info: Eder, Steve; Ivory, Danielle; Valdes, Marcela. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-broken-border-keeps-our-shopping-carts-full/docview/3129063885/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The incoming Trump administration promises an immigration crackdown. But for years, the on-demand economy has been fueled by unscrupulous staffing agencies exploiting migrant workers.
During the depths of the pandemic, sales at Alo Yoga surged as its popularity exploded on social media. Kendall Jenner appeared on Instagram wearing the brand's high-waist leggings. Alessandra Ambrosio and Jennifer Lopez were seen in Alo gear, too. In just one year, business reportedly almost doubled, surpassing $ 1 billion.
Alo's sister company, Bella+Canvas, a wholesaler of basic apparel, also reached a milestone, selling directly to consumers through its website. To keep up, the two companies turned to a vast new distribution warehouse in Nevada.
Finding workers for such facilities is no small task, but corporate America often looks to a time-tested strategy: contracting with staffing agencies that temporarily employ migrants, including some who enter the country illegally and are desperate for jobs.
This year, America's southern border was once again a flashpoint in a presidential election, with President-elect Donald J. Trump pledging to deport millions of people who he said were "poisoning the blood" of the country. Within days of his re-election, he announced his intention to appoint hard-liners on immigration.
But despite the tough talk, the broken border has been a lifeline for America's on-demand economy under both Democratic and Republican administrations, including Mr. Trump's first term, an investigation by The New York Times found. Thousands of companies have exploited its porousness by plucking workers from the ranks of unauthorized migrants, sometimes with impunity.
Hidden from public view is the middleman role often played by staffing agencies. They recruit workers for warehouses, factories and distribution centers that serve up billions of dollars in goods for brand-name companies.
One of the most notorious agencies, BaronHR, worked with Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas for years, including at the Nevada warehouse. The reporting shows that the agency's founder, Luis E. Perez, cast himself as a benefactor for immigrant workers, but in many cases his firms cheated them out of wages and stole their tax payments.
While BaronHR provided jobs to migrants -- and employees to companies -- it was also an active player on the darker side of the immigration economy. Until the firm collapsed early this year, it was an agent for the exploitation of laborers who were often underpaid and working in unsafe conditions, all while shielding brands from direct responsibility.
To examine this secretive world, The Times scoured thousands of pages of court records, internal corporate documents and regulatory filings, and interviewed 100 migrant employees, as well as regulators and industry experts.
Mr. Perez is now in jail awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to federal tax crimes involving nearly $ 60 million. But since 2018, while his case went unresolved, records indicate that BaronHR and affiliated firms entered into contracts and collected more than $ 750 million from corporate partners, including Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas. Much of the business occurred even as Mr. Trump cracked down on illegal immigration.
The privately held clothing retailers did not respond to repeated requests for comment, including a detailed list of findings addressed to their founders and hand-delivered to their Beverly Hills headquarters. A representative for Ms. Jenner, Ms. Ambrosio and Ms. Lopez declined to comment.
In a statement from jail in Santa Ana, Calif., Mr. Perez said, "There are significant limitations on my ability to meaningfully engage with you," because of his legal situation and what he characterized as serious health problems.
He said BaronHR was often an employer "in name only" because "clients dictated the employment terms and conditions" and that since 2018 he had had "restricted involvement." Some of his detractors, he said, were "former disgruntled employees, competitors and less-than-ideal clients."
On any given day, Mr. Perez's agencies had upward of 8,000 workers at partner locations, according to a 2021 deposition by a former top executive. Over more than a decade, they provided staffing for at least 800 companies large and small, publicly traded and privately held, client lists and other records obtained by The Times show. In addition to Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas, the companies included well-known giants like TJX -- the parent of T.J. Maxx, HomeGoods and Marshalls -- and Keurig Dr Pepper, the beverage maker.
Those records do not identify the workers' legal status, but a former BaronHR manager, Stacy Mohler, said some companies were adamant about vetting workers, while others just wanted "a warm body." Another former manager said word spreads quickly about staffing firms that "hire anyone."
Staffing agencies were among the top employers of unauthorized workers at sites inspected for immigration violations over the past decade, according to data collected by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The records indicate that at least 160 staffing firms, most of them identified during the Trump administration, employed people with suspicious documents or no evidence of authorization.
Immigration experts say this pattern of hiring reflects a far broader phenomenon tracked in the Biden and Obama administrations as well, but staffing agencies contacted by The Times disputed the accuracy of the data or suggested that workers had misrepresented their status.
The industry group representing staffing firms says partners sometimes use them as scapegoats.
"Clients are constantly trying to shift responsibility to us," said Ed Lenz, senior counsel of the American Staffing Association. (BaronHR was not a member.) "And it's a chronic longstanding tussle that we have with clients because they're trying to relieve themselves of as much responsibility as possible."
Dozens of staffing agencies have been accused of violations at their partner companies' work sites, including sexual harassment, racial discrimination, wage theft or safety lapses that resulted in amputations, crushed body parts and death.
Federal, state and local regulators have pursued at least 80 investigations of agencies over possible violations involving immigrants, including many who are in the United States illegally, according to records from the Department of Homeland Security obtained through public records requests. They were compiled during the Biden administration but document accusations stretching back at least as far as the Trump era. They do not indicate the status of the investigations, and a department spokesperson did not provide more information.
Three staffing firms, for example, were under investigation by the Illinois Labor Department for concerns related to improper training at Ferrara Candy, the maker of SweeTarts and Jelly Belly jelly beans.
The candy company was also under investigation, records show. In a statement, it described the investigation as "frivolous" and said "all temporary and full-time workers understand the hazards and appropriate safety measures of their assigned role."
The Labor Department said it had recently closed the investigations without ruling on the merits of the cases. The department also said it had granted the Chicago Workers Collaborative, an advocacy group for temporary workers that filed the complaint, the right to sue Ferrara and one of the staffing agencies.
Interviews and regulatory records show that BaronHR and its affiliates have been the subject of at least three investigations involving discrimination or failure to pay workers assigned to dozens of job sites, including at TJX.
In a statement, TJX said it requires staffing partners to provide authorized workers. "As these individuals are Baron employees," the company said, "it would be inappropriate for us to comment on BaronHR's business practices."
Mr. Perez, the BaronHR founder, described "the vast majority" of its workers as "rollover" employees who had been hired by another agency or already worked for the partner company.
Across the country, BaronHR became known for issuing paychecks that shortchanged wages or bounced because of insufficient funds. The Times obtained BaronHR emails, interviewed employees and reviewed lawsuits describing more than a decade of payment problems.
A worker from Colombia said even check-cashing operations that were popular among undocumented immigrants often turned him away. "It was always a headache," said the man, who worked at the Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas warehouse in Nevada.
The retailers were among many companies that enlisted Mr. Perez's services after he and his firms endured government raids, arrests, bankruptcies, indictments and lawsuits, according to interviews, BaronHR client records and court filings.
The relationships are a case study in how companies can benefit from illegal immigration -- and can sidestep responsibility as workers are exploited.
In a sworn statement in May, the warehouse operations and safety manager for the two retailers said they had moved the BaronHR workers in California and Nevada to new staffing agencies and had paid missing wages. The intervention came after a work stoppage at the Nevada warehouse in January.
A 'Game of Whac-a-Mole'
Last year about 13 million people worked in temporary jobs, more than a third of which were in warehouses, distribution centers and other industrial settings, according to the American Staffing Association.
For many unauthorized migrants, staffing firms offer a way to get their footing. In interviews, some recounted that their first job at BaronHR felt like a godsend.
One man from El Salvador had earned $ 40 a day selling oranges in Los Angeles. When he later made his way to Nevada, BaronHR sent him to the Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas warehouse for $ 17 an hour.
A woman who had fled violence in South America worked for two staffing agencies in New Jersey before BaronHR sent her to Pennsylvania. There, she said, she unloaded mannequins, clothes and store decorations for a center owned by TJX for $ 18 an hour.
Elizeth Peláez, a migrant from Mexico, earned $ 400 a week as a domestic employee in Florida, before landing work with BaronHR in Nevada. At first, she packed potato chips and vitamins for $ 10 an hour, and welded wires for casino machines for $ 11. Eventually, she said, she drove a forklift for $ 18 an hour.
But her BaronHR paychecks bounced so often, she couldn't reliably make rent. She slept in an office at a building she cleaned on the side.
"You have to do what they ask," she explained, "or you're left with nothing."
To find such compliant workers, BaronHR relied on social media platforms, like LinkedIn, and word of mouth. It posted fliers in laundromats and stores, and opened offices in immigrant neighborhoods.
For years, Mr. Perez also leveraged his cultural connections.
Born in Mexico and raised in Orange County, Calif., he focused recruitment on Southern California's Hispanic population. In his statement, he emphasized his humble origins. "I am very familiar with the experience of immigrants struggling to make ends meet," he said, "because I was one."
By 2003, his first firm, then called Checkmate Staffing, had hundreds of millions of dollars a year in business, Mr. Perez told government investigators, according to court records. Other disclosures showed that Checkmate workers were deployed to more than 1,200 companies.
Staffing agencies make money by charging companies a "markup" on hourly wages. Some find underhanded ways to gain a competitive edge. Mr. Perez could afford slim markups because he cut corners on required expenses such as workers' compensation payments and payroll taxes, according to interviews and two decades of criminal cases against him.
Without providing details, Mr. Perez said in his statement that BaronHR relied on third-party contractors that "misled" the staffing agency about workers' compensation coverage or withheld wages when "clients didn't pay on time."
David Weil, former administrator of the U.S. Labor Department's wage and hour division, said operators like Mr. Perez go "in and out of business under multiple names," skirting responsibility by creating a "game of Whac-a-Mole."
He added, "If you create an environment where essentially you're allowing some businesses to compete on the basis of wage theft, it starts pulling down the standards."
Mr. Lenz, of the Staffing Association, said that law-abiding firms feel "deeply frustrated" because "they're being hammered in the marketplace."
BaronHR and its affiliates flourished, eventually expanding into about 15 states. "We were making hundreds of placements every hour," said Becky Romero, a former BaronHR executive vice president who has a pending sexual harassment and wrongful termination suit against the company.
'Nothing Is Getting Fixed'
BaronHR's practices were hardly an industry secret.
Beginning over a decade ago, there were lawsuits, civil rights complaints and other public actions against the firm. And on multiple occasions, executives at a rival staffing agency emailed BaronHR clients about the problems. A person familiar with the emails said they went to more than 120 undisclosed partner companies.
One executive with the competitor, Partners Personnel, wrote in March 2021 that Mr. Perez's run-ins with the law had the "potential to significantly disrupt your operations" and put "an unfortunate stain on the staffing industry."
Some BaronHR clients backed away as the agency's troubles became more widely known, but hundreds remained steadfast.
When Keurig Dr Pepper signed a new contract with BaronHR in 2019 to staff a facility in California, Mr. Perez and two of his executives were facing state charges for tax and workers' compensation premium fraud.
Later that year, as federal prosecutors unsealed an indictment charging Mr. Perez with not paying millions in payroll taxes, Keurig Dr Pepper expanded the partnership to include more warehouses.
The partners then deepened their relationship with a national contract, according to a wrongful termination lawsuit by a former BaronHR employee.
Agency records show that workers were sent to Keurig Dr Pepper locations across the country, including manufacturing and warehouse sites in Florida and Illinois. Like the other BaronHR records reviewed by The Times, these do not indicate workers' immigration status.
In a statement, Keurig Dr Pepper did not comment on the contract extensions but said it had later terminated its relationship with BaronHR because the firm was "not able to meet the standards expected in our internal vendor processes."
The company added that it requires all suppliers to comply with the law and its ethical standards, including screening applicants for immigration status. It also said that it "did not observe any conduct" that ran counter to its standards.
Similarly, food affiliates of CJ Group maintained a relationship with BaronHR while they and the staffing firm faced worker lawsuits, records show.
The Times reached out to Schwan's, which last year merged with the food affiliates and produces products under Red Baron, Bibigo and other brand names. In a statement, a Schwan's spokesman acknowledged there had been "a handful of situations" when "BaronHR failed to pay workers," but said "we always paid BaronHR for the work performed," and "we expect the companies we work with to abide by all laws."
In interviews, several former employees at BaronHR offices described workers from a variety of sites, including Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas, complaining about missing wages and bounced paychecks. In some cases, they responded to calls from partner companies about why the workers were not getting paid.
Often, they said, they offered empty promises. But one recalled telling companies, "Nothing is getting fixed."
In his statement, Mr. Perez said he accepted "ultimate responsibility" for his tax problems, while spreading blame to others.
"My downfall was hiring people with limited training and experience to run the business," he said, "and retaining professionals who gave me very bad advice."
'U.S.A. Strong'
Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas -- which markets itself as "U.S.A. Strong" for creating American jobs -- were consistent partners of BaronHR. They are owned by Color Image Apparel, a privately held company based in Beverly Hills, founded by Danny Harris and Marco DeGeorge.
The relationship with BaronHR dates back roughly a decade, when the staffing firm began supplying them workers in suburban Los Angeles, records and interviews show. They also indicate that BaronHR and the retailers were in close communication when problems arose in the Nevada warehouse. BaronHR and other firms providing staffing had representatives stationed in the lunchroom, according to workers and BaronHR corporate employees.
In September 2022, a new contract between Bella+Canvas and BaronHR laid out the agency's responsibility for screening, hiring and paying workers. Over the previous three years, at least four workers had sued both BaronHR and Bella+Canvas over pay and other claims. Three settled and one, who also filed a discrimination complaint to California's civil rights agency, has a lawsuit still pending.
The Times interviewed more than 20 people whom BaronHR had hired to work for Alo Yoga, Bella+Canvas, Color Image or their contractors. All of them were undocumented during their employment, and some shared texts, emails, pay stubs and other documents.
Many of the workers described banks rejecting their paychecks for insufficient funds. By last fall, they said, BaronHR often directed them to specific check-cashing businesses that charged high fees.
"The company should not be telling me what to do with my money," said one worker, Eduardo Olmos.
The designated businesses changed regularly, and by late in the day they sometimes turned people away. Some workers clocked out mid-shift to get paid. In such a rush, Maria Acuña, a former supervisor in Nevada, said she and some co-workers once narrowly avoided a car accident.
"We got out of the car, running," she said.
Another worker was once stationed in a "V.I.P. section," packing Alo Yoga items for celebrities and social media influencers. A single mother who was undocumented, she said she fell behind on rent because of bounced paychecks and worried about feeding and clothing her children.
Some said they complained to managers employed by Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas. Emails document some of the exchanges.
In one of them, a worker complained to a Bella+Canvas manager last year that her bank repeatedly rejected her checks. Their email exchange dragged out over three months and looped in the staffing agency.
While workers struggled to get paid, Alo Yoga promoted steep holiday discounts and, on Instagram, free fast shipping on "party looks" and "winter wish lists."
Many workers who spoke to The Times had committed to working six-day weeks to meet the demand. In return, BaronHR promised bonuses, but many of those checks bounced too.
After struggling to get paid during the holidays, workers in Nevada occupied the cafeteria and refused to work. Within days, Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas switched BaronHR workers to other agencies staffing their warehouses.
In May, Delfino Barragan, the warehouse operations and safety manager for the clothing brands, acknowledged in a court filing that, for four weeks beginning last December, BaronHR was "failing to pay its staff."
He said the brands had paid about $ 425,000 to the other agencies to cover "labor costs that BaronHR failed to pay," and blamed the staffing firm's "breaches" for other potential costs.
Some workers were still reckoning their losses months later. When the Salvadoran man who once sold oranges tried to file his taxes this year, he learned that BaronHR had not reported his income, even though it had deducted federal taxes from his paychecks, he said in an interview. In fact, he said, the Internal Revenue Service told him it had no record of his employment at the Nevada warehouse.
'People Needed This Work'
Employing undocumented immigrants was central to BaronHR's business.
One company that partnered with the firm determined that two-thirds of its workers from the staffing agency were undocumented, according to a 2019 lawsuit by a former BaronHR executive.
The executive, Michael Morris, who also served on the corporate board, urged Mr. Perez to fire managers "who hired undocumented employees because that practice is unethical and illegal," the suit said, and raised concerns that workers "were being exploited by BaronHR and its clients."
Mr. Morris was soon demoted, the lawsuit says, and later fired. Court records show that BaronHR agreed to pay him $ 250,000 in a settlement that included a nondisclosure clause.
Early this year, when the three federal and state labor agencies notified the Homeland Security Department that BaronHR was being investigated, the workplace violations involved unauthorized workers deployed to dozens of companies, according to interviews and financial documents.
These include a snack company owned at the time by Utz, the Las Vegas hotel Circus Circus, and Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas. None of them responded to requests for comment.
Several former corporate employees of BaronHR said the firm targeted undocumented immigrants because they were less likely to quit or speak up if mistreated.
"These people needed this work," said Yesenia Murillo, a sales representative in BaronHR's Chula Vista, Calif., office in 2017 and 2018, adding that the agency and its clients had leveraged workers' desperation to place them in "dangerous, hazardous, inhumane" jobs.
In 2017, when the Trump administration ratcheted up work-site inspections for undocumented workers, staffing agencies across the country received notices that federal agents would visit.
Around that time, a BaronHR branch manager in Chula Vista ordered employees to throw away hundreds of employment verification documents known as I-9s, according to lawsuits filed by Ms. Murillo and two other former employees.
The next year, employees at the same office were instructed by a compliance auditor to white out portions of I-9s, make faded copies of altered forms, shred forms and forge signatures on unsigned forms, the lawsuits said. The complaints cited an email from Joseph Martinez, BaronHR's head of sales and operations, expressing frustration at the company's repeated flouting of the law.
"Clearly there is fraud taking place," he wrote, adding, "We cannot be falsifying government documents." According to the employees' lawyer, Josh Gruenberg, the lawsuits were all settled.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement later inspected the Chula Vista paperwork and issued a warning notice, records show, meaning it found violations that needed to be fixed.
BaronHR was not fined, according to the records. But it was reported to the Homeland Security Department under a Biden administration program that offers some protections for unauthorized workers and temporarily authorized workers who report labor violations.
So far, at least 75 other staffing agencies in 17 states have been investigated, documents show. The Homeland Security Department would not clarify the status of the investigations.
One worker center alone, Arriba Las Vegas, has collected evidence of mistreatment from more than 1,000 people who worked for BaronHR or its affiliates in California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, Texas or Nevada, said Bliss Requa-Trautz, the group's executive director. Almost all of them had been unauthorized to work in the United States, and some had worked for BaronHR stretching back to the Trump and Obama administrations.
'Scared to Speak Out'
When José Tapia ripped the tendons in his shoulder in 2017 at a warehouse in Carson, Calif., he was rushed not to a hospital but to BaronHR's branch office to be grilled by a lawyer, according to interviews and allegations in a lawsuit.
Mr. Tapia still has not had the surgery recommended by his doctor, he said, because the staffing agency did not carry the state-mandated insurance that covers such treatment, and he can't afford to pay for it himself. His case settled, his lawyer said, but he is still awaiting payment.
Over the past 15 years, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration inspected BaronHR's work sites roughly 65 times, tallying nearly 100 violations with fines totaling at least $ 335,000, according to federal data. In most of the incidents, BaronHR's partner companies were also cited.
Some workers have said in lawsuits and civil rights complaints that they were terminated or stopped receiving assignments after suffering an injury or reporting other health concerns. Others did not receive workers' compensation payments, records and interviews suggest. Recent bankruptcy filings listed about 300 such unresolved cases, with well over $ 2 million owed to injured workers, medical providers and others.
The workers' complaints extended beyond health and safety issues. According to allegations in interviews, lawsuits and regulatory actions, BaronHR also created a permissive environment for discrimination based on race, gender, sexual orientation and pregnancy.
Mr. Martinez, the former BaronHR executive who raised concerns about falsifying employment documents, filed a discrimination and harassment lawsuit, in which he accused the staffing firm of having kept coded logs that allowed partners to choose workers based on race and other factors.
An internal document, the suit said, referred to Black applicants as "friendlys," women as "lights" and men as "heavys."
This year, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission settled a discrimination lawsuit against BaronHR and Radiant Services, a commercial laundry company, that raised similar issues involving gender and race. BaronHR agreed to pay $ 2.2 million, and Radiant $ 1.1 million.
'He Wanted Those Things Again'
For more than two decades, state and federal investigators targeted Mr. Perez, the BaronHR founder, for labor and tax violations. He kept slipping away and starting anew.
In the early years, his riches attracted outsize attention and brought coverage in financial and entertainment publications, where he bragged about owning several homes in Southern California and a fleet of luxury cars including a Lamborghini and a Bentley. He talked of sitting courtside at Lakers and Clippers games, partnering with the actor Mario Lopez on a production company, and rubbing elbows with Andy Garcia and other Hollywood celebrities. His company at the time, Checkmate, made Hispanic magazine's "Entrepreneur 100" list.
Contacted by The Times, a spokeswoman for Mr. Garcia said the two men met "briefly at a golf tournament" but had no further association. A spokeswoman for Mr. Lopez said Mr. Perez "was barely an acquaintance" and described the partnership as "a complete fabrication."
In the fall of 2003, Mr. Perez's fortunes took a turn when investigators raided Checkmate's offices. Bankruptcy followed, revealing that Checkmate had debts topping $ 50 million, including $ 15 million owed to the I.R.S. Soon Mr. Perez and several of his deputies were charged in California with defrauding insurers of nearly $ 40 million in premiums.
In a personal bankruptcy filing in 2010, he claimed that he had only $ 17 in his checking account and owed $ 8 million in taxes. He also listed a $ 300 stake in a new agency: BaronHR.
In 2011, the San Bernardino County District Attorney's Office dropped the criminal case against Mr. Perez after a victim, the State Compensation Insurance Fund, told prosecutors that it would disavow its own audits of the alleged fraud, records show. The supervising prosecutor on the case, now retired, told The Times that it was a highly unusual change of position, and could offer no explanation.
At the time, Mr. Perez announced in a news release that he had been "exonerated." A number of his Checkmate clients followed him to BaronHR.
His phoenixlike return was emblematic of the "Wild West" nature of the staffing world, said Pollie Pent, a former detective with the California Department of Insurance's fraud division who now works in the insurance industry. "There is very little oversight."
In 2017, Mr. Perez was in trouble again and spent two mornings at the U.S. attorney's office in Santa Ana, Calif., trying to cut a deal. Notes from the meetings reveal a rare unvarnished view of the business.
In Mr. Perez's telling, the staffing industry was filled with people who used prison inmates' social security numbers to help staff their work sites. He said the constant opening and closing of companies by the same owners signaled that they were evading taxes.
Agencies that skipped paying employment taxes could underbid the competition, said Mr. Perez, who offered to name firms that were "underpricing and skimming." He also offered to identify partner companies that got their hands dirty by demanding kickbacks.
When it came to his own problems, he deflected many transgressions onto underlings and accountants, but admitted that he had bought cars, a boat and a plane while owing millions of dollars to the I.R.S. -- and then hid assets so they would not be seized.
"Perez had a lot of possessions when he was operating Checkmate, and he wanted those things again," an agent in the U.S. attorney's office wrote in the notes.
In March 2018, Mr. Perez agreed to a secret plea deal that entailed admitting to tax evasion and cooperating on a broader industry investigation.
But separately, that August, the Orange County District Attorney's Office charged him and two of his executives with tax and workers' compensation insurance fraud.
Mr. Perez hardly missed a beat.
That December, he held a glittering gala at the Beverly Hilton Hotel to celebrate a charity he had created and recognize BaronHR's success. The party featured live music, awards for top salespeople and the announcement of a goal to double the business within five years.
"Working together," said Mr. Perez in a white tuxedo, "we can do amazing things."
Within months of the gala, he retracted his secret plea. A federal grand jury indicted him. Even while free on bail for six years, he was "fundamentally unwilling to comply" with the law, prosecutors said.
This spring, as his trial neared, they denounced him as "a serial tax cheat who has built his staffing empire around the chronic failure of his companies to pay applicable federal payroll taxes."
By then, he and his associates had already reinvented themselves, this time as StaffLab L.L.C. In September, a client list shows, the new firm had already signed up partner companies.
Today, the firm's website is a blank page.
"My involvement in the staffing industry gave me a piece of the American dream," Mr. Perez said in his statement from jail, "and then turned into my worst nightmare."
Reporting was contributed by Churchill Ndonwie, Natasha Rodriguez, Carson Kessler, Angélica Castro-Reyes, Robert Gebeloff and Orlando Mayorquín. Julie Tate and Sheelagh McNeill contributed research.
Audio produced by Jack D'Isidoro.
Reporting was contributed by Churchill Ndonwie, Natasha Rodriguez, Carson Kessler, Angélica Castro-Reyes, Robert Gebeloff and Orlando Mayorquín. Julie Tate and Sheelagh McNeill contributed research. Audio produced by Jack D'Isidoro.
Photograph A migrant from Mexico drove a forklift at an Alo Yoga warehouse for $ 18 an hour. She said her BaronHR paychecks often bounced. (A1); A worker from Colombia said that even check-cashing sites that catered to undocumented immigrants turned him away.; Elizeth Peláez said when her BaronHR paychecks bounced, she couldn't always pay rent so she slept at an office she cleaned. (A26); Eduardo Olmos with one of his children. Employees said BaronHR often directed them to specific check-cashing businesses that charged high fees. "The company should not be telling me what to do with my money," Mr. Olmos said. Over more than a decade, they provided staffing for at least 800 companies, records show. (A26-A27); Records indicate that BaronHR and affiliated firms entered into contracts and collected more than $ 750 million from corporate partners, including Alo Yoga.; The Las Vegas warehouse for Alo Yoga and its sister company, Bella+Canvas, where many of the BaronHR employees work, is larger than 12 football fields.; An immigrant from El Salvador made $ 40 daily selling oranges in Los Angeles before BaronHR sent him to Alo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK ABRAMSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Luis E. Perez at a gala in 2018, months after he agreed to a secret plea deal. The BaronHR founder is now in jail awaiting sentencing for federal tax crimes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDSEY BOICE) (A27); Yesenia Murillo said that BaronHR and its clients had leveraged workers' desperation, putting them in "hazardous" jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIANA DREHSLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Maria Acuña said she and her BaronHR co-workers barely avoided an accident as they raced to cash their checks; Bliss Requa-Trautz, second from right, has collected evidence of mistreatment from employees at BaronHR and its affiliates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK ABRAMSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28) This article appeared in print on page A1, A26, A27, A28.

Subject: Immigration policy; Workforce planning; Workers; Violations; Criminal investigations; Warehouses; Employees; Interviews; Migrant workers

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Workers Warehouses Employees Migrant workers

Location: Nevada; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: American Staffing Association; NAICS: 813910; Name: Department of Homeland Security; NAICS: 922120

Title: How a Broken Border Keeps Our Shopping Carts Full:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 17, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3129063885

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-broken-border-keeps-our-shopping-carts-full/docview/3129063885/se-2?accountid =26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

This ‘Wall Street Girly’ Wants to Make Wealth More Accessible

Author: Smialek, Jeanna

Publication info: Smialek, Jeanna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-wall-street-girly-wants-make-wealth-more/docview/3129048019/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

In August, when it looked like the Federal Reserve was about to cut interest rates for the first time in more than four years, Vivian Tu took to TikTok to explain to her roughly 2.6 million followers what that move by the central bank would mean for them.
“Fed Daddy has all but guaranteed to lower interest rates in September,” she announced, trotting out her frequent nickname for Jerome Powell, the institution’s chair. “Pros: When the Fed lowers interest rates, we’ll see mortgages, car loans, personal and business loans, those rates will come down too.”
Then in a clip in October, Tu — who bills herself on social media as “Your Rich BFF” — explained how to know whether to refinance a home loan, walking tens of thousands of viewers through a mortgage calculator. That clip is nestled in her feed next to a photo of Tu slapping high-fives with former pro basketball player Shaquille O’Neal, giving travel advice pulled from her European vacations, offering tips on shopping for designer handbags and sharing her thoughts on prenups.
Tu, 30, is creating what is often serious finance and economic content — it just doesn’t always look like it. She has mastered a candy-coated version of financial advice, with videos that embrace familiar TikTok formats such as sassy clap-backs and makeup demonstrations, frequently delivered in on-point lash extensions and Instagrammable outfits.
In doing so, Tu has turned herself into something of a money role model for the TikTok generation, particularly the women whom she calls “besties.” On her podcast, “Networth and Chill,” which had more than 2 million downloads in its first season, she promises “no dry economics lessons, though I will teach you about economics, and how it affects you.”
Tu has adopted the highly personal style of a modern TikTok influencer. She speaks passionately into the camera, outraged at a company ripping people off or excited about a new saving trick she has found to share. She pulls her content from her own life. And as she does it, she embraces the style of speech that a millennial woman in traditional broadcast might be scolded for: voice modulation, hand flicks, hair flips.
She sounds, in a word, girlie.
“At first, I was like: ‘Wow, I’m so lucky to be succeeding in spite of the fact that I’m a young woman who loves to wear a pink dress to an interview,’” she said during one at a SoHo events space, which she arrived to wearing sky-high wedge heels and a flowing maxi dress the hue of bubble gum. “But over time, I kind of came to the realization that like, I wasn’t succeeding in spite of that. I was succeeding because of that.”
Tu is one of several people pioneering a new model of personal economic and financial advice — and where the plain-English pros of the past often popped up on places such as CNBC and daytime television, this new generation is taking to TikTok and other social media to spread its message. Although several of the most prominent accounts are run by men, many are by and for women.
It’s like a small army of Suze Ormans, a TV-famous financial guru, for a new generation.
And even among a crowd of people who are professionally influential, Tu stands out. Besides her millions of followers and more than 30 million likes on TikTok, she has 3 million followers on Instagram and has been invited to the White House to meet with Vice President Kamala Harris and other administration officials about the impact of the Inflation Reduction Act, a piece of legislation meant to encourage investments in green energy technologies and cap prescription costs. (Tu made a video explaining the law and “what the heck that actually means for you.”)
She has interviewed celebrities such as tennis player Venus Williams and author and former “Top Chef” host Padma Lakshmi on career growth and female mentorship. She has been featured on Forbes’ 30 Under 30 social media list. Soon after her book, “Rich AF,” was published early this year, she was one of only two female authors on The New York Times’ Top 10 Business Bestsellers list. The other was Oprah Winfrey.
“Your Favorite Wall Street Girly,” as Tu describes herself, has also attracted the backing of financial heavy-hitters eager to reach her audience. Her sponsors include financial services companies including SoFi, along with consumer product firms such as Marshalls and Instacart. Between her platforms and book deals, she said she is booked to make $7 million this year.
‘Practical Tips and Knowledge’
Tu is the daughter of Chinese immigrants (her father worked in computer programming at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center; her mother worked in consulting and chemistry) who live just outside Washington, D.C.
Her entry onto Wall Street was a conventional one: She decided to angle for finance in college because it seemed like a secure way to make a living. “I didn’t read fast enough to be a lawyer,” she said. “When I paper-cut my hand, I almost feel like I’m going to pass out, so I wasn’t going to be a doctor.”
After graduating from the University of Chicago in 2016 with a dual degree in environmental studies and public policy concentrated in finance, she started out as a trader at JPMorgan Chase & Co., initially focused on industrial and energy companies. Her energy and her Excel skills attracted the attention of mentors such as Jean Mah, her first manager, whom Tu would later call the “baddest chick in the room.”
But two years into her job, the ground began to shift. She was moved into a different role, and her new manager seemed to discount her abilities because of her identity. According to Tu, he complained about how her nails click-clacked on the computer keyboard. At one point, he told her that she was “too girlie” for the job. On another day, when she wore a long Ann Taylor cardigan to the office, he asked her if it was a kimono.
She wanted to quit on the spot.
Instead, she sought out Mah, who persuaded her not to do anything rash and to wait until the market closed that day, when they could talk about it in private. Mah then persuaded her to hang in until she could find a new job outside the firm, and helped her land a sales position at BuzzFeed. “I thought she could do anything, because she was so hungry,” Mah said recently. (JPMorgan declined to comment on Tu’s allegations about her manager.)
The transition worked out.
Tu is an extrovert who had worked as a club promoter in college, and her personality immediately clicked in sales. Within a few years, she said, she was earning more than $600,000 — far more than she had ever made in finance. But by then, she began to sense that another career path might beckon.
Colleagues who knew about her Wall Street background began to seek her out for financial advice. She realized that she liked explaining 401(k)s and index funds in ways that her young colleagues found entertaining and relatable. “My work best friend said: I think you need to put this on the internet,” Tu recalled. That friend, Allison Kim, helped her edit a script for an initial video.
That’s how she came to post her first TikTok, on New Year’s Day in 2021.
“Welcome to RichTok,” she said into the camera, introducing herself to the world in a clip that made fun of “sketchy” all-in-on-bitcoin strategies and day trading. “I don’t have any get-rich-quick schemes here, but I will help you with practical tips and knowledge on how to level up your financial literacy.”
It quickly racked up hundreds of thousands of views.
“Neither of us was expecting it to go as viral as it did,” Kim said. “It was like: This is the beginning of something huge.”
And as Tu watched the numbers climb, she quickly noticed that she was attracting a diverse audience.
“It became very clear to me just based on the profile pictures of people commenting that it was a large swath of women,” she said. “It was a large swath of people of color, members of the LGBTQ community, people who grew up low income, immigrants.”
She could, she thought, potentially speak to a crowd of people who “feel like the financial services industry has never, ever served them in the past.”
It was a niche, and she began to lean into it.
“They want to hear from a peer; they want to hear from someone who looks like they could be anybody’s college best friend,” she said. “No one has talked to these audiences about money. And certainly not this generation.”
A year and three months later, she quit BuzzFeed to become a full-time financial influencer.
The Rise of the ‘Finfluencer’
Tu is not alone. She is part of a cottage industry of content creators who have begun to pump out economic, business and personal finance updates that are chatty and TikTok friendly. And although several of the most famous finance content creators are men, many of the largest accounts are both from and for women.
What Tu and her counterparts are doing isn’t entirely new. For as long as there have been markets and modern economies, there have been what you might call finfluencers — guides who broke down the wonky ways of high finance and macroeconomics for mass consumption.
And it has often been women who have tried to make nerdy financial ideas interesting and relatable to other women.
In the early 1800s, a British author named Jane Marcet explained the lessons of Adam Smith and David Ricardo through a set of “conversations” between two fictional women (one character convinced the other that political economy touched everything, including fashion). Starting from the 1980s, a group of Illinois women — mostly in their 60s and 70s and called the “Beardstown Ladies” — sold folksy investment books that featured trading advice alongside dinner recipes. Although they were eventually sued for mistakenly overstating their investment returns, their popularity kicked off a burst of interest in female investment clubs.
In the late 1990s, Orman became a celebrity with bestselling books and a highly rated show on CNBC by marketing what the Times described in 2009 as very basic advice: “Track your spending. Stay out of debt. Take care of your car. Look into a Roth IRA.”
Midway through the 2020s, it is perhaps no surprise that the modern version of nerd-to-table finance comes in heavily edited clips and snappy posts. And given that women — who gained the ability to open a bank account independently in the United States only in 1974 — make up a growing force on Wall Street, many of the topics they are tackling are increasingly more sophisticated.
Creators on TikTok and Instagram churn out videos on everything from why stocks are selling off to the Bank of Japan’s interest rate setting to the weighted average cost of capital.
But even as the topics take a turn for the serious, it has become almost a meme for some personal finance and economics accounts to lean into loud femininity. One is run by a woman who strolls around New York City in bright-pink makeup, explaining topics such as foreign exchange and inflation in a delivery style that would make Cher Horowitz proud. (Others, including those with the biggest followings, are more focused on news-you-can-use personal finance issues, including flight discounts.)
It fits in with a broader online trend: Girl-coded media has been everywhere in recent years, from “girl dinners” to “hot girl walks.” But female-targeting financial content could also have consequences if it continues to take off, because the gap that people such as Tu are trying to fill is a real one. Women make up half the population but control just one-third of America’s wealth.
And it has long remained the case that women — especially women of color — have been less educated in money management than men. In a recent study, men overall scored 25% better than women on financial literacy questions, and Black and Hispanic men scored 40% better than women in those groups.
And that comes alongside a lack of financial news consumption: Women are also less likely to follow financial news. Men accounted for about 3 in 4 Wall Street Journal readers in 2023, for instance, and The Financial Times’ reader base has also historically leaned toward men.
“Women have been at a disadvantage when it comes to money for centuries,” said Berna Anat, a fellow financial influencer and friend of Tu’s. Tu often borrows a line from Anat that criticizes financial content as “male, pale and stale.”
Meeting at the White House
The question is whether digital platforms will help to change the tide.
New outlets could spread information differently. It is unquestionably the case that young people are increasingly turning to social media platforms as a key news source.
Nearly half of 18- to 29-year-olds who use TikTok treat it as a source of political news, based on a recent survey by Pew Research Center, far above the more than 36% of users overall who use it for news. And Instagram users are also increasingly using that platform for news, as are those on LinkedIn and video streaming platform Twitch.
That climbing relevance is lost on neither Washington nor Wall Street.
The Biden administration’s digital strategy office brought Tu in as part of a group — which also included people such as news wrap creator V Spehar and vegan TikTokker Ashley Renne — to talk about the Inflation Reduction Act. That move came as part of a push to step up outreach to influencers in general.
Christian Tom, director of digital strategy for the White House, said that over the past four years, administration officials have invited creators in for briefings much the way they would invite the press, hoping to make sure they know what is happening and why it might matter for ordinary people.
“There is enormous value in working with digital creators who are able to help synthesize and share some of the pieces of legislation that otherwise can be complex for people,” he said. “The way that people engage with content online has evolved.”
The Risks of Misinformation
Finance companies are aware of the clout influencers hold as tastemakers, and they regularly pay business-focused influencers such as Tu.
But the heavy presence of sponsorships underscores a risk to this new model of news dissemination. Although it is accessible and made to be appealing, it can be tied to for-profit companies — and meant to sell a product — in nontransparent ways. (Asked if she always discloses her sponsored content, Tu’s spokespeople said she always does.)
Plus, it can be tough to distinguish facts from outright misinformation on social media. Many of the markers of legitimacy on a more traditional news website, such as a well-known brand name and a professional interface, are stripped away. And misinformation can be especially hard to spot when it comes to complicated economy or finance claims that are tough to fact-check with a simple Google search.
Last year, for instance, a misleading set of posts arguing that America’s economy was in worse shape than it was in the Great Depression went viral on TikTok and Instagram.
“People don’t necessarily make the distinction between reliable news media and everything else,” said Peter Adams, senior vice president of research and design at the News Literacy Project, explaining that people getting news from social media should be particularly wary of anything meant to play on their emotions. They should also distinguish between influencers and journalists who operate according to strict newsroom standards guides, he said.
Tu said she has tried to position herself as an alternative to less scrupulous accounts, and says she fact-checks and researches her posts.
“If there’s anything that I even have an inkling of doubt about, I’ll then go do a deep dive, and make sure that I can find at a minimum three reputable sources that back up my claims,” she said.
She said she realized that there were limits to how much someone can become informed about complicated financial topics in a 45-second video. And the goal is not to step in for a financial adviser — it is to draw a set of viewers who might not otherwise be getting that beneficial financial content, she said.
The way to do that, she thinks, is by recognizing that making financial information fun for a heavily female audience is not equivalent to dumbing it down.
Tu said femininity and financial understanding are often portrayed as two things that do not go together. She pointed to movies such as “Confessions of a Shopaholic,” in which a shopping addict blows her money on designer clothes.
“The language we have used to talk about women and money, frankly, as a society is unkind,” she said.
“People aren’t stupid,” she added. “We just haven’t been explaining correctly.”
And the manager who treated Tu like she herself was stupid once? He gets a shoutout on her book’s dedication page, which is signed: “To the man who told me I was too girly to ever succeed in finance.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Females; Interest rates; Women; Energy industry; Financial services; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Interest rates Energy industry Financial services Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times C o; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Stocks And Bonds; Reading And Writing Skills (Education); Instant Messaging; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Immigration And Emigration; Foreign Workers; Banking And Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; Smith, David A; Marshalls Inc; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Bank Of Japan; Minorities; Great Britain; Millennial Generation; New York City; Williams, Venus; Jpmorgan Chase &; Company; United States; Alternative And Renewable Energy; Linkedin Corporation; New Year; Forbes Magazine; Interest Rates; Credit And Debt; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Government Bonds; Tennis; Illinois; Dresses; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Service Industr ies; Cnbc; Color; Smialek, Jeanna; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Europe; Google Inc; Personal Finances; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Buzzfeed Inc; Customer Relations; Pensions And Retirement Plans; Discrimination; United States Politics And Government; Mortgages; Women And Girls; Wall Street Journal; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Fashion And Apparel; Law And Legislation; Black People; News And News Media; Writing And Writers; Rumors And Misinformati on; Twitch Interactive Inc; Inflation (Economics); Greeting Gestures; Ann Taylor Stores Inc; Tiktok (Bytedance); Polls And Public Opinion; Income Inequality; Newspapers; Space And Astronomy; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Television; Land Use Policies; Goddard Space Flight Center; Financial Times; Powell, Jerome H; Instacart; University Of Chicago; Harris, Kamala D; Soho (Manhattan, Ny); Beardstown Ladies; Names, Organizational; National Aeronautics And Space Administration; Washington (Dc); Lakshmi, Padma; Business; Colleges And Universities; Financial Planners; Winfrey, Oprah; United States Economy; Pew Research Center; New York Times; Smith, Adam (1723 90); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological

Title: This ‘Wall Street Girly’ Wants to Make Wealth More Accessible

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 16, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3129048019

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-wall-street-girly-wants-make-wealth-more/docview/3129048019/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Hidden Truth Linking the Broken Border to Your Online Shopping Cart

Author: Eder, Steve; Ivory, Danielle; Valdes, Marcela

Publication info: Eder, Steve; Ivory, Danielle; Valdes, Marcela. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hidden-truth-linking-broken-border-your-online/docview/3129048014/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

During the depths of the pandemic, sales at Alo Yoga surged as its popularity exploded on social media. Kendall Jenner appeared on Instagram wearing the brand’s high-waist leggings. Alessandra Ambrosio and Jennifer Lopez were seen in Alo gear, too. In just one year, business reportedly almost doubled, surpassing $1 billion.
Alo’s sister company, Bella+Canvas, a wholesaler of basic apparel, also reached a milestone, selling directly to consumers through its website. To keep up, the two companies turned to a vast new distribution warehouse in Nevada.
Finding workers for such facilities is no small task, but corporate America often looks to a time-tested strategy: contracting with staffing agencies that temporarily employ migrants, including some who enter the country illegally and are desperate for jobs.
This year, America’s southern border was once again a flash point in a presidential election, with Donald Trump pledging to deport millions of people who he said were “poisoning the blood” of the country. Within days of his reelection, the president-elect announced his intention to appoint hard-liners on immigration.
But despite the tough talk, the broken border has been a lifeline for America’s on-demand economy under both Democratic and Republican administrations, including Trump’s first term, an investigation by The New York Times found. Thousands of companies have exploited its porousness by plucking workers from the ranks of migrants living in the country illegally, sometimes with impunity.
Hidden from public view is the middleman role often played by staffing agencies. They recruit workers for warehouses, factories and distribution centers that serve up billions of dollars in goods for brand-name companies.
One of the most notorious agencies, BaronHR, worked with Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas for years, including at the Nevada warehouse. The reporting shows that the agency’s founder, Luis E. Perez, cast himself as a benefactor for immigrant workers, but in many cases, his firms cheated them out of wages and stole their tax payments.
Although BaronHR provided jobs to migrants — and employees to companies — it was also an active player on the darker side of the immigration economy. Until the firm collapsed early this year, it was an agent for the exploitation of laborers who were often underpaid and working in unsafe conditions, all while shielding brands from direct responsibility.
To examine this secretive world, the Times scoured thousands of pages of court records, internal corporate documents and regulatory filings, and interviewed 100 migrant employees, as well as regulators and industry experts.
Perez is now in jail awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to federal tax crimes involving nearly $60 million. But since 2018, while his case went unresolved, records indicate that BaronHR and affiliated firms entered into contracts and collected more than $750 million from corporate partners, including Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas. Much of the business occurred even as Trump cracked down on illegal immigration.
The privately held clothing retailers did not respond to repeated requests for comment, including a detailed list of findings addressed to their founders and hand-delivered to their headquarters in Beverly Hills, California. A representative for Jenner, Ambrosio and Lopez declined to comment.
In a statement from jail in Santa Ana, California, Perez said, “There are significant limitations on my ability to meaningfully engage with you,” because of his legal situation and what he characterized as serious health problems.
He said BaronHR was often an employer “in name only” because “clients dictated the employment terms and conditions” and that since 2018 he had had “restricted involvement.” Some of his detractors, he said, were “former disgruntled employees, competitors and less-than-ideal clients.”
On any given day, Perez’s agencies had upward of 8,000 workers at partner locations, according to a 2021 deposition by a former top executive. Over more than a decade, they provided staffing for at least 800 companies large and small, publicly traded and privately held, client lists and other records obtained by the Times show. In addition to Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas, the companies included well-known giants such as TJX — the parent of T.J. Maxx, HomeGoods and Marshalls — and Keurig Dr Pepper, a beverage maker.
Those records do not identify the workers’ legal status, but a former BaronHR manager, Stacy Mohler, said some companies were adamant about vetting workers, while others just wanted “a warm body.” Another former manager said word spreads quickly about staffing firms that “hire anyone.”
Staffing agencies were among the top employers of unauthorized workers at sites inspected for immigration violations over the past decade, according to data collected by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The records indicate that at least 160 staffing firms, most of them identified during the Trump administration, employed people with suspicious documents or no evidence of authorization.
Immigration experts say this pattern of hiring reflects a far broader phenomenon tracked in the Biden and Obama administrations as well, but staffing agencies contacted by the Times disputed the accuracy of the data or suggested that workers had misrepresented their status.
The industry group representing staffing firms says partners sometimes use them as scapegoats.
“Clients are constantly trying to shift responsibility to us,” said Ed Lenz, senior counsel of the American Staffing Association. (BaronHR was not a member.) “And it’s a chronic long-standing tussle that we have with clients because they’re trying to relieve themselves of as much responsibility as possible.”
Dozens of staffing agencies have been accused of violations at their partner companies’ worksites, including sexual harassment, racial discrimination, wage theft or safety lapses that resulted in amputations, crushed body parts and death.
Federal, state and local regulators have pursued at least 80 investigations of agencies over possible violations involving immigrants, including many who are in the United States illegally, according to records from the Department of Homeland Security obtained through public records requests. They were compiled during the Biden administration, but they document accusations stretching back at least as far as the Trump era. They do not indicate the status of the investigations, and a department representative did not provide more information.
Three staffing firms, for example, are under investigation by the Illinois Labor Department for concerns related to improper training at Ferrara Candy, the maker of SweeTarts and Jelly Belly jelly beans.
The candy company is also under investigation, records show. In a statement, it described the investigation as “frivolous” and said “all temporary and full-time workers understand the hazards and appropriate safety measures of their assigned role.”
Interviews and regulatory records show that BaronHR and its affiliates have been the subject of at least three investigations involving discrimination or failure to pay workers assigned to dozens of jobsites, including at TJX.
In a statement, TJX said it requires staffing partners to provide authorized workers. “As these individuals are Baron employees,” the company said, “it would be inappropriate for us to comment on BaronHR’s business practices.”
Perez described “the vast majority” of its workers as “rollover” employees who had been hired by another agency or already worked for the partner company.
Across the country, BaronHR became known for issuing paychecks that shortchanged wages or bounced because of insufficient funds. The Times obtained BaronHR emails, interviewed employees and reviewed lawsuits describing more than a decade of payment problems.
A worker from Colombia said even check-cashing operations that were popular among immigrants living in the country illegally often turned him away. “It was always a headache,” said the man, who worked at the Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas warehouse in Nevada.
The retailers were among many companies that enlisted Perez’s services after he and his firms endured government raids, arrests, bankruptcies, indictments and lawsuits, according to interviews, BaronHR client records and court filings.
The relationships are a case study in how companies can benefit from illegal immigration — and can sidestep responsibility as workers are exploited.
In a sworn statement in May, the warehouse operations and safety manager for the two retailers said they had moved the BaronHR workers in California and Nevada to new staffing agencies and had paid missing wages. The intervention came after a work stoppage at the Nevada warehouse in January.
A ‘Game of Whac-a-Mole’
Last year, about 13 million people worked in temporary jobs, more than one-third of which were in warehouses, distribution centers and other industrial settings, according to the American Staffing Association.
For many migrants in the country without legal permission, staffing firms offer a way to get their footing. In interviews, some recounted that their first job at BaronHR felt like a godsend.
A man from El Salvador had earned $40 a day selling oranges in Los Angeles. When he later made his way to Nevada, BaronHR sent him to the Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas warehouse for $17 an hour.
A woman who had fled violence in South America worked for two staffing agencies in New Jersey before BaronHR sent her to Pennsylvania. There, she said, she unloaded mannequins, clothes and store decorations for a center owned by TJX for $18 an hour.
Elizeth Peláez, a migrant from Mexico, earned $400 a week as a domestic employee in Florida, before landing work with BaronHR in Nevada. At first, she packed potato chips and vitamins for $10 an hour and welded wires for casino machines for $11. Eventually, she said, she drove a forklift for $18 an hour.
But her BaronHR paychecks bounced so often, she couldn’t reliably make rent. She slept in an office at a building she cleaned on the side.
“You have to do what they ask,” she said, “or you’re left with nothing.”
To find such compliant workers, BaronHR relied on social media platforms, such as LinkedIn, and word of mouth. It posted flyers in laundromats and stores, and opened offices in immigrant neighborhoods.
For years, Perez also leveraged his cultural connections.
Born in Mexico and raised in Orange County, California, he focused recruitment on Southern California’s Hispanic population. In his statement, he emphasized his humble origins. “I am very familiar with the experience of immigrants struggling to make ends meet,” he said, “because I was one.”
By 2003, his first firm, then called Checkmate Staffing, had hundreds of millions of dollars a year in business, Perez told government investigators, according to court records. Other disclosures showed that Checkmate workers were deployed to more than 1,200 companies.
Staffing agencies make money by charging companies a “markup” on hourly wages. Some find underhanded ways to gain a competitive edge. Perez could afford slim markups because he cut corners on required expenses such as workers’ compensation payments and payroll taxes, according to interviews and two decades of criminal cases against him.
Without providing details, Perez said in his statement that BaronHR relied on third-party contractors that “misled” the staffing agency about workers’ compensation coverage or withheld wages when “clients didn’t pay on time.”
David Weil, former administrator of the U.S. Labor Department’s wage and hour division, said operators such as Perez go “in and out of business under multiple names,” skirting responsibility by creating a “game of Whac-a-Mole.”
He added: “If you create an environment where essentially you’re allowing some businesses to compete on the basis of wage theft, it starts pulling down the standards.”
Lenz, of the American Staffing Association, said that law-abiding firms feel “deeply frustrated” because “they’re being hammered in the marketplace.”
BaronHR and its affiliates flourished, eventually expanding into about 15 states. “We were making hundreds of placements every hour,” said Becky Romero, a former BaronHR executive vice president who has a pending sexual harassment and wrongful termination suit against the company.
Missing Wages
BaronHR’s practices were hardly an industry secret.
Beginning over a decade ago, there were lawsuits, civil rights complaints and other public actions against the firm. And on multiple occasions, executives at a rival staffing agency emailed BaronHR clients about the problems. A person familiar with the emails said they went to more than 120 undisclosed partner companies.
One executive with the competitor, Partners Personnel, wrote in March 2021 that Perez’s run-ins with the law had the “potential to significantly disrupt your operations” and put “an unfortunate stain on the staffing industry.”
Some BaronHR clients backed away as the agency’s troubles became more widely known, but hundreds remained steadfast.
When Keurig Dr Pepper signed a new contract with BaronHR in 2019 to staff a facility in California, Perez and two of his executives were facing state charges for tax and workers’ compensation premium fraud.
Later that year, as federal prosecutors unsealed an indictment charging Perez with not paying millions in payroll taxes, Keurig Dr Pepper expanded the partnership to include more warehouses.
The partners then deepened their relationship with a national contract, according to a wrongful termination lawsuit by a former BaronHR employee.
Agency records show that workers were sent to Keurig Dr Pepper locations across the country, including manufacturing and warehouse sites in Florida and Illinois. Like the other BaronHR records reviewed by the Times, these do not indicate workers’ immigration status.
In a statement, Keurig Dr Pepper did not comment on the contract extensions but said it had later terminated its relationship with BaronHR because the firm was “not able to meet the standards expected in our internal vendor processes.”
The company added that it requires all suppliers to comply with the law and its ethical standards, including screening applicants for immigration status. It also said that it “did not observe any conduct” that ran counter to its standards.
Similarly, food affiliates of CJ Group maintained a relationship with BaronHR while they and the staffing firm faced worker lawsuits, records show.
The Times reached out to Schwan’s, which last year merged with the food affiliates and produces products under Red Baron, Bibigo and other brand names. In a statement, a Schwan’s spokesperson acknowledged there had been “a handful of situations” when “BaronHR failed to pay workers,” but said “we always paid BaronHR for the work performed” and “we expect the companies we work with to abide by all laws.”
In interviews, several former employees at BaronHR offices described workers from a variety of sites, including Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas, complaining about missing wages and bounced paychecks. In some cases, they responded to calls from partner companies about why the workers were not getting paid.
Often, they said, they offered empty promises. But one recalled telling companies, “Nothing is getting fixed.”
In his statement, Perez said he accepted “ultimate responsibility” for his tax problems, while spreading blame to others.
“My downfall was hiring people with limited training and experience to run the business,” he said, “and retaining professionals who gave me very bad advice.”
‘USA Strong’
Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas — which markets itself as “USA Strong” for creating American jobs — were consistent partners of BaronHR. They are owned by Color Image Apparel, a privately held company based in Beverly Hills and founded by Danny Harris and Marco DeGeorge.
The relationship with BaronHR dates back roughly a decade, when the staffing firm began supplying them workers in suburban Los Angeles, records and interviews show. They also indicate that BaronHR and the retailers were in close communication when problems arose in the Nevada warehouse. BaronHR and other firms providing staffing had representatives stationed in the lunchroom, according to workers and BaronHR corporate employees.
In September 2022, a new contract between Bella+Canvas and BaronHR laid out the agency’s responsibility for screening, hiring and paying workers. Over the previous three years, at least four workers had sued both BaronHR and Bella+Canvas over pay and other claims. Three settled, and one, who also filed a discrimination complaint to California’s civil rights agency, has a lawsuit still pending.
The Times interviewed more than 20 people whom BaronHR had hired to work for Alo Yoga, Bella+Canvas, Color Image or their contractors. All of them were living in the country illegally during their employment, and some shared texts, emails, pay stubs and other documents.
Many of the workers described banks rejecting their paychecks for insufficient funds. By last fall, they said, BaronHR often directed them to specific check-cashing businesses that charged high fees.
“The company should not be telling me what to do with my money,” said a worker, Eduardo Olmos.
The designated businesses changed regularly, and by late in the day, they sometimes turned people away. Some workers clocked out midshift to get paid. In such a rush, Maria Acuña, a former supervisor in Nevada, said she and some co-workers once narrowly avoided a car accident.
“We got out of the car, running,” she said.
Another worker was once stationed in a “VIP section,” packing Alo Yoga items for celebrities and social media influencers. A single mother who was living in the country illegally, she said she fell behind on rent because of bounced paychecks and worried about feeding and clothing her children.
Some said they complained to managers employed by Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas. Emails document some of the exchanges.
In one of them, a worker complained to a Bella+Canvas manager last year that her bank repeatedly rejected her checks. Their email exchange dragged out over three months and looped in the staffing agency.
While workers struggled to get paid, Alo Yoga promoted steep holiday discounts and, on Instagram, free fast shipping on “party looks” and “winter wish lists.”
Many workers who spoke to the Times had committed to working six-day weeks to meet the demand. In return, BaronHR promised bonuses, but many of those checks bounced too.
After struggling to get paid during the holidays, workers in Nevada occupied the cafeteria and refused to work. Within days, Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas switched BaronHR workers to other agencies staffing their warehouses.
In May, Delfino Barragan, the warehouse operations and safety manager for the clothing brands, acknowledged in a court filing that, for four weeks beginning last December, BaronHR was “failing to pay its staff.”
He said the brands had paid about $425,000 to the other agencies to cover “labor costs that BaronHR failed to pay,” and blamed the staffing firm’s “breaches” for other potential costs.
Some workers were still reckoning their losses months later. When the Salvadoran man who once sold oranges tried to file his taxes this year, he learned that BaronHR had not reported his income, even though it had deducted federal taxes from his paychecks, he said in an interview. In fact, he said, the IRS told him it had no record of his employment at the Nevada warehouse.
Workplace Violations
Employing immigrants living in the country illegally was central to BaronHR’s business.
A company that partnered with the firm determined that two-thirds of its workers from the staffing agency were living in the country illegally, according to a 2019 lawsuit by a former BaronHR executive.
The executive, Michael Morris, who also served on the corporate board, urged Perez to fire managers “who hired undocumented employees because that practice is unethical and illegal,” the suit said, and raised concerns that workers “were being exploited by BaronHR and its clients.”
Morris was soon demoted, the lawsuit says, and later fired. Court records show that BaronHR agreed to pay him $250,000 in a settlement that included a nondisclosure clause.
Early this year, when the three federal and state labor agencies notified the Homeland Security Department that BaronHR was being investigated, the workplace violations involved workers living in the country illegally and deployed to dozens of companies, according to interviews and financial documents.
These include a snack company owned at the time by Utz, the Las Vegas hotel Circus Circus, and Alo Yoga and Bella+Canvas. None of them responded to requests for comment.
Several former corporate employees of BaronHR said the firm targeted immigrants living in the country illegally because they were less likely to quit or speak up if mistreated.
“These people needed this work,” said Yesenia Murillo, a sales representative in BaronHR’s Chula Vista, California, office in 2017 and 2018, adding that the agency and its clients had leveraged workers’ desperation to place them in “dangerous, hazardous, inhumane” jobs.
In 2017, when the Trump administration ratcheted up worksite inspections for workers living in the country illegally, staffing agencies across the country received notices that federal agents would visit.
Around that time, a BaronHR branch manager in Chula Vista ordered employees to throw away hundreds of employment verification documents known as I-9s, according to lawsuits filed by Murillo and two other former employees.
The next year, employees at the same office were instructed by a compliance auditor to white out portions of I-9s, make faded copies of altered forms, shred forms and forge signatures on unsigned forms, the lawsuits said. The complaints cited an email from Joseph Martinez, BaronHR’s head of sales and operations, expressing frustration at the company’s repeated flouting of the law.
“Clearly there is fraud taking place,” he wrote, adding, “We cannot be falsifying government documents.” According to the employees’ lawyer, Josh Gruenberg, the lawsuits were all settled.
ICE later inspected the Chula Vista paperwork and issued a warning notice, records show, meaning it found violations that needed to be fixed.
BaronHR was not fined, according to the records. But it was reported to the Homeland Security Department under a Biden administration program that offers some protections for workers living in the country illegally and temporarily authorized workers who report labor violations.
So far, at least 75 other staffing agencies in 17 states have been investigated, documents show. The Homeland Security Department would not clarify the status of the investigations.
One worker center alone, Arriba Las Vegas, has collected evidence of mistreatment from more than 1,000 people who worked for BaronHR or its affiliates in California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, Texas and Nevada, said Bliss Requa-Trautz, the group’s executive director. Almost all of them had been unauthorized to work in the United States, and some had worked for BaronHR stretching back to the Trump and Obama administrations.
‘Scared to Speak Out’
When José Tapia ripped the tendons in his shoulder in 2017 at a warehouse in Carson, California, he was rushed not to a hospital but to BaronHR’s branch office to be grilled by a lawyer, according to interviews and allegations in a lawsuit.
Tapia still has not had the surgery recommended by his doctor, he said, because the staffing agency did not carry the state-mandated insurance that covers such treatment, and he can’t afford to pay for it himself. His case settled, his lawyer said, but he is still awaiting payment.
Over the past 15 years, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration inspected BaronHR’s worksites roughly 65 times, tallying nearly 100 violations with fines totaling at least $335,000, according to federal data. In most of the incidents, BaronHR’s partner companies were also cited.
Some workers have said in lawsuits and civil rights complaints that they were terminated or stopped receiving assignments after suffering an injury or reporting other health concerns. Others did not receive workers’ compensation payments, records and interviews suggest. Recent bankruptcy filings listed about 300 such unresolved cases, with well over $2 million owed to injured workers, medical providers and others.
The workers’ complaints extended beyond health and safety issues. According to allegations in interviews, lawsuits and regulatory actions, BaronHR also created a permissive environment for discrimination based on race, gender, sexual orientation and pregnancy.
Martinez, the former BaronHR executive who raised concerns about falsifying employment documents, filed a discrimination and harassment lawsuit, in which he accused the staffing firm of having kept coded logs that allowed partners to choose workers based on race and other factors.
An internal document, the suit said, referred to Black applicants as “friendlys,” women as “lights” and men as “heavys.”
This year, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission settled a discrimination lawsuit against BaronHR and Radiant Services, a commercial laundry company, that raised similar issues involving gender and race. BaronHR agreed to pay $2.2 million, and Radiant $1.1 million.
Fortunes Take a Turn
For more than two decades, state and federal investigators targeted Perez for labor and tax violations. He kept slipping away and starting anew.
In the early years, his riches attracted outsize attention and brought coverage in financial and entertainment publications, where he bragged about owning several homes in Southern California and a fleet of luxury cars including a Lamborghini and a Bentley. He talked of sitting courtside at Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers games, partnering with actor Mario Lopez on a production company, and rubbing elbows with Andy Garcia and other Hollywood celebrities. His company at the time, Checkmate, made Hispanic Magazine’s “Entrepreneur 100” list.
Contacted by the Times, a spokesperson for Garcia said the two men met “briefly at a golf tournament” but had no further association. A spokesperson for Lopez said Perez “was barely an acquaintance” and described the partnership as “a complete fabrication.”
In the fall of 2003, Perez’s fortunes took a turn when investigators raided Checkmate’s offices. Bankruptcy followed, revealing that Checkmate had debts topping $50 million, including $15 million owed to the IRS. Soon, Perez and several of his deputies were charged in California with defrauding insurers of nearly $40 million in premiums.
In a personal bankruptcy filing in 2010, he claimed that he had only $17 in his checking account and owed $8 million in taxes. He also listed a $300 stake in a new agency: BaronHR.
In 2011, the San Bernardino County district attorney’s office dropped the criminal case against Perez after a victim, the State Compensation Insurance Fund, told prosecutors that it would disavow its own audits of the alleged fraud, records show. The supervising prosecutor on the case, now retired, told the Times that it was a highly unusual change of position, and could offer no explanation.
At the time, Perez announced in a news release that he had been “exonerated.” A number of his Checkmate clients followed him to BaronHR.
His phoenixlike return was emblematic of the “Wild West” nature of the staffing world, said Pollie Pent, a former detective with the California Department of Insurance’s fraud division who now works in the insurance industry. “There is very little oversight.”
In 2017, Perez was in trouble again and spent two mornings at the U.S. attorney’s office in Santa Ana, trying to cut a deal. Notes from the meetings reveal a rare unvarnished view of the business.
In Perez’s telling, the staffing industry was filled with people who used prison inmates’ Social Security numbers to help staff their worksites. He said the constant opening and closing of companies by the same owners signaled that they were evading taxes.
Agencies that skipped paying employment taxes could underbid the competition, said Perez, who offered to name firms that were “underpricing and skimming.” He also offered to identify partner companies that got their hands dirty by demanding kickbacks.
When it came to his own problems, he deflected many transgressions onto underlings and accountants, but admitted that he had bought cars, a boat and a plane while owing millions of dollars to the IRS — and then hid assets so they would not be seized.
“Perez had a lot of possessions when he was operating Checkmate, and he wanted those things again,” an agent in the U.S. attorney’s office wrote in the notes.
In March 2018, Perez agreed to a secret plea deal that entailed admitting to tax evasion and cooperating on a broader industry investigation.
But separately, in August 2018, the Orange County District Attorney’s Office charged him and two of his executives with tax and workers’ compensation insurance fraud.
Perez hardly missed a beat.
In December 2018, he held a glittering gala at the Beverly Hilton Hotel to celebrate a charity he had created and to recognize BaronHR’s success. The party featured live music, awards for top salespeople and the announcement of a goal to double the business within five years.
“Working together,” said Perez in a white tuxedo, “we can do amazing things.”
Within months of the gala, he retracted his secret plea. A federal grand jury indicted him. Even while free on bail for six years, he was “fundamentally unwilling to comply” with the law, prosecutors said.
This past spring, as his trial neared, they denounced him as “a serial tax cheat who has built his staffing empire around the chronic failure of his companies to pay applicable federal payroll taxes.”
By then, he and his associates had already reinvented themselves, this time as StaffLab LLC. In September, a client list shows, the new firm had already signed up partner companies.
Today, the firm’s website is a blank page.
“My involvement in the staffing industry gave me a piece of the American dream,” Perez said in his statement from jail, “and then turned into my worst nightmare.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Immigration policy; Workforce planning; Workers; Violations; Employees; Criminal investigations; Presidential elections; Warehouses; Yoga; Interviews

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Workers Employees Warehouses

Location: New York; United States--US; California; Nevada

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: American Staffing Association; NAICS: 813910

Identifier / keyword: Immigration And Emigration; Real Estate Brokers; San Bernardino County (Calif); Foreign Workers; Obama, Barack; Immigration And Customs Enforcement (Us); Keurig Dr Pepper Inc; Banking And Financial Institutions; Deportation; Marshalls Inc; Cj Group; Oranges; Florida; Orange (Calif); Parties (Social); Prisons And Prisoners; Sexting; United States; Santa Ana (Calif); Automobile Safety Features And Defects; Tj Maxx; Nevada; Linkedin Corporation; Cheating; Relocation Of Business; Tax Evasion; Careers And Professions; Corporations; Carson (Calif); Automobili Lamborghini Spa; False Arrests, Convictions And Imprisonments; Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc; Bankruptcies; Disasters And Emergencies; Prison Guards And Corrections Officers; Hollywood (Calif); South America; Ex Convicts; California; Credit And Debt; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Yoga; Automobiles; Race And Ethnicity; Illinois; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Coaches And Managers; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Los Angeles Clippers; Hiring And Promotion; Candy; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; El Salvador; Garcia, Andy (1956 ); Instagram Inc; Bentley Motors Ltd; Morris, Michael (1974 ); Shopping And Retail; Presidential Election Of 2024; Corporate Taxes; Ferrara (Italy); Customer Relations; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Cyberharassment; Mid Atlantic States (Us); Personal Bankruptcies; United States Politics And Government; Texas; Discrimination; Wages And Salaries; Pennsylvania; Discount Selling; Executives And Management (Theory); Federal State Relations (Us); Eder, Steve; Bribery And Kickbacks; Advertising And Marketing; Taxation; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); E Commerce; Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Frauds And Swindling; Law And Legislation; Hispanic Americans; New Jersey; Homeland Security Department; Deaths (Fatalities); Falsification Of Data; Nevada County (Calif); Workplace Environment; Federal Budget (Us); Lopez, Jennifer; Factories And Manufacturing; Voter Fraud (Election Fraud); Illegal Immigration; Occupational Safety And Health Administration; Canvas Networks; Insurance; Real Estate (Commercial); Employee Fringe Benefits; Income Inequality; Ferrara Candy Co; Executive Compensation; Consumer Reviews; Robberies And Thefts; Labor Department (Us); Mexico; Migrant Labor (Non Agriculture); Accounting And Accountants; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Warehouses; Beverly Hills (Calif); Civil Rights And Liberties; Instant Messaging; Seasons And Months; Television; Internal Revenue Service; Trump, Donald J; Travel And Vacations; Chilpancingo (Mexico); High Net Worth Individuals; Elections, District Attorneys; Weil, David (Screenwriter); Government Contracts And Procurement; Las Vegas (Nev); Vegetables; Trademarks And Trade Names; Chess; Compensation For Damages (Law); Martinez (Calif); Circuses; Names, Organizational; Color Labs Inc; Orange County (Fla); Hosiery; Jenner, Kendall; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; Doctors; Models (Professional); Chula Vista (Calif); Sports Injuries; Trump Tax Returns; Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Economy; Gender; Payroll Tax; Tjx Companies Inc; Campaign Finance; New York Times; Orange County (Calif); Sexual Harassment; Coronavirus Risks And Safety Concerns; Colombia; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Disease Rates; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Hotels And Travel Lodgings; Luxury Goods And Services; Los Angeles Lakers; Assets, Frozen; Names, Personal

Title: The Hidden Truth Linking the Broken Border to Your Online Shopping Cart

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 16, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3129048014

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hidden-truth-linking-broken-border-your-online/docview/3129048014/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Seeing Video Site Failures, He Has a Plan to Succeed: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Mullin, Benjamin

Publication info: Mullin, Benjamin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seeing-video-site-failures-he-has-plan-succeed/docview/3127176600/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Nicholas Carlson has witnessed spectacular failures in the tech and media worlds over the years. As the former top editor of Business Insider, he chronicled the carnage at Yahoo and Groupon, and then watched several Silicon Valley companies and rival publications make an ill-fated "pivot to video."
Now Mr. Carlson, 41, is trying to put the lessons he learned to good use. He is preparing to debut a media start-up of his own -- one with a focus on video.
The new company, Dynamo, is betting big on the growing popularity of video on platforms such as YouTube, TikTok and LinkedIn. It will produce "cinematic" video stories for those platforms, Mr. Carlson said, focusing on business journalism for a core group of strivers that he calls "dynamos."
The average dynamo -- Mr. Carlson considers himself one -- is an ambitious, career-oriented viewer who believes that business can explain the world.
And he is quick to assert that his new company has more in common with Mr. Beast, the mega-popular YouTube star, than it does with Facebook Watch, a video service that was shuttered after struggling for years.
"We're not pivoting to video," Mr. Carlson said with a laugh. "We're cannonballing into the deep end of video."
Many media companies that have created content specifically for social media platforms have had a tough road. But Mr. Carlson said skyrocketing video viewership on tech platforms pointed to a business opportunity that had not been tapped by companies specializing in high-quality video journalism.
In addition to Mr. Beast, Mr. Carlson cited the tech journalist Cleo Abram, who has roughly 4.4 million subscribers on YouTube, and Dropout, the independent digital comedy channel previously known as CollegeHumor. The company intends to take advantage of a video news product that is being developed by LinkedIn.
Mr. Carlson said videos produced by Dynamo would be "evergreen" -- designed to be relevant months or years after they were published -- with memorable characters and great writing that could be illustrated by compelling footage. Two examples: How do massive container ships shrug off giant waves? And why have sculptors recently cast such meme-worthy statues of popular athletes like the N.B.A. great Dwyane Wade and the soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo?
Mr. Carlson said the start-up would avoid political stories. And it will leave daily news coverage to other publishers.
"There's a lot of companies that do it well," said Mr. Carlson, who will be the editor in chief and chief executive of Dynamo. "That's just a very difficult business to get into. And I think there's plenty of other amazing, very valuable journalism to be done."
Mr. Carlson, a father of two who lives in Brooklyn, firmed up the concept for Dynamo last year on a family vacation in Spain. He trademarked the name -- his wife's idea -- that fall.
But he didn't become serious about leaving Business Insider, where he rose from a staff writer to the top editor over a 16-year tenure, until this spring.
That was months after he and Business Insider came under intense scrutiny. In January, the site published a series of articles that leveled accusations of plagiarism against Neri Oxman, an academic married to the hedge fund manager Bill Ackman. Mr. Ackman complained, prompting Axel Springer, the parent company of Business Insider, to announce that it would be reviewing the articles.
In the aftermath, Mathias Dopfner, Axel Springer's chief executive, raised the possibility of firing Mr. Carlson in a meeting of the company's management board, according to three people familiar with the matter. (Semafor reported earlier that Mr. Dopfner considered firing Mr. Carlson.) The company's review ultimately concluded the articles were accurate and fair.
In May, Mr. Carlson announced his intentions to leave Business Insider, negotiating an exit that included a consulting deal with Axel Springer.
Mr. Carlson said he made the change because of Dynamo's potential, not the tumult at Business Insider.
"Axel Springer obviously reacted to that story," Mr. Carlson said. "And it was a challenge to work through it. But we did." (A Business Insider spokeswoman said in a statement that the company was "enormously grateful" to Mr. Carlson.)
As he was leaving Business Insider, Mr. Carlson sounded out Henry Blodget, the former chief executive of the company, on his next steps. In September, Mr. Blodget joined Dynamo as an investor and future board member and helped Mr. Carlson raise $ 3.4 million from backers including Jessica Lessin, the founder of The Information; FirstMark Capital; Jon Steinberg; and Alyson Shontell, the top editor of Fortune.
Over the last few weeks, during a series of lengthy phone calls, Mr. Blodget, 58, and Mr. Carlson batted ideas for Dynamo back and forth. One frequent topic: managing each video to make sure that costs are in line with the revenue they generate. That focus is one of the big lessons from the 2010s, Mr. Blodget said, when start-ups like Vice Media and BuzzFeed News lost millions of dollars annually.
"It is not easy by any means," Mr. Blodget said. "But what the companies need to do is figure out a model that works with the consumption patterns and the revenue that is available."
What lessons from his two decades of covering business will Mr. Carlson, a first-time founder, bring to his own company?
Mr. Carlson -- whose early reporting coups included obtaining scatological college instant messages from Mark Zuckerberg -- said that successful start-ups raised realistic amounts of money, made things that people actually wanted and spent less on their products than they generated.
"Now I just have to figure how to do that profitably when so many others with hundreds of millions of dollars at their disposal could not," Mr. Carlson said. "Here goes!"
Photograph Nicholas Carlson, former top editor at Business Insider, started Dynamo, which will, he says, produce business-focused "cinematic" video stories. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLARK HODGIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Journalism; Startups; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Social networks

People: Carlson, Nicholas

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Business Insider; NAICS: 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/12/business/media/nicholas-carlson-business-insider-dynamo-media.html

Title: Seeing Video Site Failures, He Has a Plan to Succeed:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 13, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3127176600

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seeing-video-site-failures-he-has-plan-succeed/docview/3127176600/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After 5 Months, Prime Minister Is Fired in Haiti: [Correction]

Author: Robles, Frances

Publication info: Robles, Frances. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-5-months-prime-minister-is-fired-haiti/docview/3126614360/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As killings and hunger soar in Haiti, a political power struggle has cost the prime minister his job, another setback for a country plagued by gang violence.
The former United Nations official tapped to lead Haiti through a gang-fueled crisis has been fired by the country's ruling council, following a political power struggle that unfolded amid a wave of kidnappings and killings.
The official, Garry Conille, 58, a medical doctor who previously ran UNICEF's Latin America regional office, was hired in late May to serve as interim prime minister of Haiti. He and the country's ruling council are supposed to pave the way for elections next year to choose a new president.
Haiti's transitional council named Alix Didier Fils-Aimé, the owner of a chain of dry cleaners and a former candidate for the Haitian Senate, as his replacement, according to an executive order published Sunday afternoon in the country's official gazette, Le Moniteur. The former president of the Haiti's Chamber of Commerce, he studied at Boston University and describes himself on LinkedIn as "an entrepreneur" and "engaged citizen."
Haiti's last president was murdered in July 2021 and no elections have been held since. The prior prime minister was forced from office earlier this year by a coalition of gangs that had taken over the capital, Port-au-Prince, waging attacks on a range of targets, from police stations to prisons to hospitals.
Unable to even return home from an overseas trip, the previous prime minister, Ariel Henry, stepped down in April as killings soared and thousands of people were forced from their homes because of gang violence.
Mr. Conille, who speaks fluent English and was seen as someone removed from traditional party politics because he hadn't lived in Haiti for more than a decade, was considered a favorite of the international community, who are key financial donors and have considerable weight in Haitian affairs.
The decision to oust him was likened by some analysts as a politically-motivated coup, and they questioned whether the presidential council had the legal authority to do it. The authority to fire a prime minister belongs to the Parliament, but because there have been no elections, Haiti currently does not have one.
The dismissal is another setback for the country because power vacuums and a lack of political stability are often cited as among the key reasons that Haiti has been unable to beat back gangs that have taken control of many neighborhoods.
Mr. Conille had helped oversee an international force of police officers, most of them Kenyan, who arrived in Haiti in June to try to restore order.
But Mr. Conille's relationship with a transitional presidential council, a nine-member board ruling Haiti until presidential elections could be held, was contentious from the start. In a country known for party factions and political infighting, Mr. Conille rankled the council by doing things like traveling to Washington without letting the council know in advance.
As prime minister, Mr. Conille is the head of government, and the seven voting members of the council rotate the title of "president," -- head of state.
But Mr. Conille traveled to the United Nations with full diplomatic security, while a council member who held the title of "president" was initially refused official security from the U.S. government, and another council member was shut out of an important bilateral meeting.
The council had recently asked Mr. Conille to reshuffle his cabinet, and he refused, according to a spokesman for one presidential council member. The last straw appeared to be Mr. Conille's efforts to have three council members who are accused of corruption removed from office.
As a member of the executive branch, it was inappropriate for Mr. Conille to meddle in matters that the judiciary must resolve, said Jean Junior Joseph, a spokesman for Edgar Leblanc Fils, a transitional council member who did not vote on the resolution to dismiss the prime minister or sign the order naming a replacement.
"That really upset his bosses at the Council of Transition," Mr. Joseph said. "We all need full security and harmony among the leaders."
Mr. Conille's spokesman did not return repeated requests for comment. It is the second time that Mr. Conille has held the prime minister role. He resigned in 2012 after just four months following increasing tensions with the president at the time.
The council voted to dismiss him on Friday, the same day that the United Nations announced that some areas of Haiti were reaching famine-like conditions.
Nearly 3,900 people were killed between January and September, said Stephanie Tremblay, a U.N. spokeswoman. A massacre last month led to the killing of more than 100 people in Pont-Sondé, in the Artibonite region.
More than 700,000 people have fled their homes nationwide.
"We are seeing pockets of famine-like conditions in some areas where displaced people are living," Ms. Tremblay said.
Andre Paultre and David C. Adams contributed reporting.
Andre Paultre and David C. Adams contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A9.

Subject: Political power; Presidential elections; Violent crime; Politics; Massacres; Prime ministers; Gangs; Political appointments; Political leadership; Firings

Business indexing term: Subject: Firings

Location: Haiti

People: Conille, Garry

Company / organization: Name: United Nations--UN; NAICS: 928120

Title: After 5 Months, Prime Minister Is Fired in Haiti:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.9

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 11, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3126614360

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-5-months-prime-minister-is-fired-haiti/docview/3126614360/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Steve Mariotti, 71, Whose Mugging Led Him to Teaching Youths at Risk: [Biography]

Author: Trip Gabriel

Publication info: Trip Gabriel. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/steve-mariotti-71-whose-mugging-led-him-teaching/docview/3123193209/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After he was mugged, he took a therapist's advice to work with "difficult students at a difficult school." They ignored him until the lessons turned to business.
Steve Mariotti, a teacher in some of New York's roughest schools who discovered that his bored, disrespectful students suddenly tuned in when he talked about running a business, inspiring him to create an organization that has taught business skills to more than 1 million at-risk youths in the U.S. and abroad, died on Oct. 20 in Union City, N.J. He was 71.
His death, at the home of a friend with whom he was living, was caused by a heart attack, according to the nonprofit organization that Mr. Mariotti founded in 1987, the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship, or NFTE.
Mr. Mariotti believed that imparting business basics to poor, mostly minority students who saw no connection between school and the quality of their lives could help them develop an interest in math and writing, improve their behavior, and instill a belief in themselves and a hope for the future.
The organization, which he started on his modest teacher's salary, now has a $ 12 million budget, oversees programs in 28 states and 27 countries, and reports that 80 percent of its alumni have earned or are earning college degrees or professional certificates.
Jasmine Lawrence Campbell, an alumna of a NFTE course, who founded EDEN BodyWorks, a beauty products line sold in Walmart, wrote on LinkedIn: "There would be no EDEN BodyWorks without NFTE. I'm so grateful for the organization Steve Mariotti founded that radically changed the course of my life."
Mr. Mariotti's own life was changed by an emotionally shattering episode that led him to become a teacher.
In 1981, when he owned a small import-export business in New York, he was mugged by six teenage boys while jogging along the East River. Angry that he had only $ 10 in his running shorts, the boys punched him, flashed knives and threatened to throw him into the river.
After the attack, Mr. Mariotti was plagued by nightmares and a sense of humiliation. When a therapist diagnosed post-traumatic stress syndrome and advised him that he could conquer it by becoming "a teacher of difficult students in a difficult school," Mr. Mariotti left his business and began teaching remedial math at Boys and Girls High School, in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
His new students mocked him as "Mr. Manicotti" while blasting music in class and dancing on his desk. It was only when he introduced a lesson on how businesses made profits -- distributing handfuls of coins for a game in which they pretended to be a shopkeeper and customers -- that they began to pay attention.
"Whenever I could tie a lesson to entrepreneurship, I had my students' rapt attention," Mr. Mariotti wrote in his memoir, "Goodbye Homeboy: How My Students Drove Me Crazy and Inspired a Movement," published in 2019. "I consistently witnessed angry, disillusioned teenagers light up whenever I explained that entrepreneurship is a viable way for anyone to earn money and create a pathway out of poverty."
At a second school, Jane Addams Vocational High School in the South Bronx (now Jane Addams High School for Academic Careers), Mr. Mariotti encouraged students to start their own small businesses -- braiding hair, for example, or peddling sunglasses bought from wholesalers in Midtown Manhattan.
"I discovered that my low-income students had a natural aptitude for entrepreneurship, born of their stressful lives," he wrote. "They were comfortable with risk and ambiguity. They were brave and unselfconscious. They were gutsy and resilient, and they were natural salespeople."
In 1987, when he expanded the in-school program into an all-day venture for the most troubled students, it was profiled by The New York Times and ABC's "World News Tonight With Peter Jennings."
The next year, after he left his teaching job, Mr. Mariotti was able to reach 200 students in the New York City area through a workshop. By 1991, his program, now known as NFTE (pronounced "nifty"), had partnered with an organization in Kansas and opened an office in New England, which led to rapid growth. The entrepreneurial curriculum that he and others developed was published by Pearson Education in 2005 as a textbook, "How to Start & Operate a Small Business."
By 2006, one-third of NFTE's funding came from the Goldman Sachs Foundation. In 2011, the winners of its national entrepreneurship challenge were welcomed at the White House. The organization's 25th anniversary was marked by a gala fund-raiser in 2013 at the Waldorf Astoria hotel, sponsored by Mastercard, Ernst & Young, Microsoft and others.
That same year, a study by a doctoral student at the Harvard Graduate School of Education found that students who had taken a NFTE course had a higher graduation rate than the national average. They were also more likely to be employed, and one out of five NFTE alumni with jobs were self-employed, compared with the national average of one out of nine people.
Steve John Mariotti was born on Aug. 14, 1953, in Ann Arbor, Mich., and raised in nearby Flint. His mother, Nancy (Mason) Mariotti, was a special-education teacher; his father, John J. Mariotti, taught industrial engineering at the General Motors Institute.
His maternal grandfather, Lowell B. Mason, was a longtime lawyer for Ayn Rand, the popular author of novels like "Atlas Shrugged" (1957), which lionized entrepreneurs. For years he looked up to her. (The spell was broken after he met her in New York and mentioned that he had attended a gay-rights event; she later wrote to him forbidding further contact because of his support for "the immoral acts of homosexuals," he wrote in his memoir.)
Dreaming of a career in the auto industry, Mr. Mariotti earned a B.A. in economics as well as an M.B.A. from the University of Michigan, graduating in 1977. He was hired as a financial analyst at Ford Motor Company, but was ultimately fired, he wrote, because of his memos questioning the company's business in apartheid South Africa. Soon after, he moved to New York, where he started a small business importing artisan-made goods from Jamaica, Kenya and other countries.
He retired as president of NFTE in 2015. He is survived by a brother, Jack.
Years after Mr. Mariotti's traumatic mugging, one of his assailants walked into an entrepreneurship class he was teaching at Seward Park High School, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. The two recognized each another but weren't sure from where. Then the memory flooded back.
"We shook hands and agreed to let bygones be bygones," Mr. Mariotti wrote. "He turned out to be a wonderful young man who was working hard to change his life and improve his prospects."
Photograph Steve Mariotti in 2007 with students from his Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship organization. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B12.

Subject: Teaching; Small business; Students; Entrepreneurship; Autobiographies; Personal profiles; Low income groups; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Small business Entrepreneurship

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Mariotti, Steve

Company / organization: Name: Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship; NAICS: 611430

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/28/nyregion/steve-mariotti-dead.html

Title: Steve Mariotti, 71, Whose Mugging Led Him to Teaching Youths at Risk:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.12

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 2, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 3123193209

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/steve-mariotti-71-whose-mugging-led-him-teaching/docview/3123193209/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Arm Twisted, Bloomberg Bets $50 Million on Harris: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/arm-twisted-bloomberg-bets-50-million-on-harris/docview/3121835366/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The former mayor of New York City is known for making political donations late in the campaign season. Democrats had been lobbying him to spend more.
Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York City, under extraordinary pressure from friends and fellow billionaires to do more to help Vice President Kamala Harris, recently donated about $ 50 million to a nonprofit organization that is supporting her presidential run, according to four people with knowledge of the matter.
The donation followed months of arm-twisting from associates such as Bill Gates, investor Ron Conway and Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn. Mr. Bloomberg recently spoke with Ms. Harris in a private phone call, according to two people briefed on the conversation.
Mr. Bloomberg's decision conforms to a strategy that has become his trademark: Confounding Democratic operatives by refusing to make early investments -- only to come in hot and heavy in the homestretch. But unlike his previous big gifts, this one was intended to be kept under wraps, and that secrecy has made unaware Democrats more anxious than they have been most autumns.
His contribution was made to Future Forward USA Action, the dark-money vehicle of Future Forward, Ms. Harris's main super PAC.
Mr. Bloomberg, who is 82 years old and has an estimated net worth of $ 105 billion, is the second largest disclosed individual donor to Democrats in this election cycle, after the investor and philanthropist George Soros. But publicly, Democrats observed that Mr. Bloomberg was donating nowhere close to what he had spent during the presidency of Donald J. Trump.
The $ 47 million he had given in federally disclosed political contributions during this election cycle, before his new nonprofit donation, was less than half of the $ 95 million he disclosed to help Democrats retake Congress in the 2018 midterms.
And so in recent months, frustrated Democrats in his close orbit had urged him to consider a large donation to help Ms. Harris in an election expected to be decided by razor-thin margins. Mr. Bloomberg's advisers, to say nothing of the man himself, have fielded jittery queries for months about what Democrats saw as his relatively conspicuous absence.
Mr. Bloomberg declined to comment for this article.
Mr. Bloomberg became a registered Democrat only in 2018, but he has been counted upon in Democratic circles, perhaps overly so, for his late-in-the-cycle gifts.
It is now, officially, late.
The former mayor, a self-described "data nerd," has a logic: He tells others that he believes he can find strategic gaps -- "unmet needs," in the language of his philanthropy -- once candidates and other donors place their own bets.
"I very clearly disagree with that strategy because time, not late money, is always our best weapon -- but that's where we are this cycle," said Quentin James, who runs the Collective PAC, a group aimed at building Black political power that got over $ 2 million from Mr. Bloomberg in 2020, but hasn't been funded in 2024.
Mike Smith, the head of House Majority PAC, which has received almost $ 70 million from Mr. Bloomberg over the past decade, including $ 10 million this year, defended Mr. Bloomberg's "deliberate" and "sophisticated" approach to late spending.
"There should be no expectation that any individual donor is just going to give to you," he said. "Mike's not giving money to anyone just to give money."
Mr. Bloomberg started his own super PAC in 2012 and the independent injected $ 10 million that October to help former President Barack Obama's re-election campaign. He spent $ 29 million in 2014 and $ 24 million in 2016, with over half coming after late August each time.
His spending skyrocketed in the Trump era. In the 2018 and 2020 elections, not counting his own short-lived and self-financed run for president, he gave over $ 250 million combined, in mostly late contributions.
When Mr. Bloomberg ran for president in 2020, he spent $ 1.1 billion in a real-world experiment on whether enormous money could buy votes. It couldn't. He got creamed in the Democratic primaries.
But he had also promised that, win or lose, he would spend his fortune to defeat Mr. Trump. And so in mid-September of that year, his advisers unveiled a splashy, ultimately unsuccessful $ 100 million commitment to help Joseph R. Biden win in Florida. All told, excluding what he spent on his own campaign, he spent about $ 173 million on the 2020 elections -- $ 126 million more than Mr. Bloomberg's public giving in this presidential cycle.
Mr. Bloomberg's defenders say his 2020 budget was unique since he was a former candidate. But Mr. Bloomberg, associates say, had been reluctant to fully engage in 2024 for other reasons. He found his 2020 presidential run not just expensive but scarring.
He left in a sour mood, sulking at people like Senator Chuck Schumer of New York for not endorsing him. Democrats spent months trying to get him re-engaged in liberal causes, even pitching his team on buying the conservative Sinclair Broadcast Group.
And Mr. Bloomberg, a titan of industry, has had a somewhat frosty relationship with Mr. Biden, his former primary rival, associates say. When Mr. Biden endorsed Ms. Harris, Mr. Bloomberg issued a statement that pointedly did not, and he was dismissive of her capabilities in a private conversation at the time, according to a person who heard his remark.
Mr. Bloomberg slowly warmed up, speaking fondly of her at a dinner at the mansion of the business executive Ken Chenault in Sag Harbor around the time of the convention, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
But despite detesting Mr. Trump, Mr. Bloomberg was initially reluctant to give more than the $ 19 million he donated to Future Forward's super PAC in May. Associates said he believed there was not the same unmet need this year, given Ms. Harris's fund-raising success. A better use of his money, he believed, might be initiatives in states to expand abortion access, which have received $ 5 million of his largess.
But a few weeks ago, Mr. Bloomberg met with Ms. Harris's economic team at Bloomberg headquarters, and he gave his feedback on her economic and housing plan, said a person with knowledge of the meeting. Ms. Harris made a check-in phone call. The efforts were part of a concerted push to make Mr. Bloomberg feel appreciated by the party and its nominee. And then, finally, came the $ 50 million check.
It is not clear why Mr. Bloomberg, whose political investments are typically announced with much fanfare, preferred to give to an undisclosed vehicle this time around. But plenty of Democrats are just thankful for the gift. Michael R. Bloomberg at the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner in New York City this month. His gift to a nonprofit backing Kamala Harris's run was intended to be kept under wraps. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Presidents; Political action committees--PAC; Donations; Political power; Politics; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/28/us/elections/michael-bloomberg-presidential-race-donations.html

Title: Arm Twisted, Bloomberg Bets $50 Million on Harris:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 30, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3121835366

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/arm-twisted-bloomberg-bets-50-million-on-harris/docview/3121835366/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-30

Database: Global Newsstrea m Collection

____________________________________________________________

New Wall St. Business: Battling D.E.I. Backlash: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-wall-st-business-battling-d-e-i-backlash/docview/3121139962/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Companies are conducting vulnerability assessments, compiling research reports and writing plans for what to do if their diversity efforts come under attack.
Someone you probably have never heard of has managed to scare virtually all of corporate America -- and Wall Street is creating a new cottage industry around the fear.
Robby Starbuck, a former music video director, has turned his social media account into a weapon against corporate D.E.I. efforts, whipping up frenzy, threatening boycotts and flooding companies with negative media mentions over their diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. Tractor Supply pared back from its D.E.I. initiative in June after Starbuck tweeted that it was "time to expose" the home improvement chain. John Deere followed suit in July and Harley Davidson in August, both times following public pressure from Starbuck.
Now, Wall Street law firms and communications outfits are building businesses around preparing companies for a Starbuck offense. The methods mirror how they would prepare for a cybersecurity attack: conducting vulnerability assessments, compiling research reports and writing plans for what to do if Starbuck comes calling.
The furious scrutiny gets at the heart of a question facing corporate America: After many companies adopted and heralded their efforts to improve diversity, equity and inclusion -- often citing studies showing benefits for business -- they're now grappling with how to handle a backlash when both customers and executives are split over the policies.
Their investors are not in agreement either: The New York City comptroller's office, which oversees the powerful New York State employees' pension fund, is already threatening lawsuits if executives concede too much.
"As a company, you might be between a rock and a hard place," said Kai Liekefett, who co-chairs the corporate defense practice at the law firm Sidley Austin. "You have an anti-D.E.I. activist clashing with a D.E.I. activist. And you are just basically just a battleground for the culture wars that are playing out in corporate America."
Corporate America's break-the-glass planning for a Starbuck attack comes as it faces a surging blowback to the D.E.I. practices it rushed to implement in 2020. The Supreme Court ruling ending affirmative action in U.S. schools last year opened up companies to litigation over D.E.I. programs. Customer revolts over diversity issues, like the boycott of Anheuser-Busch InBev over an ad campaign featuring a transgender influencer, lost the company a billion in sales. And a tense, deadlocked presidential election has further politicized the matter across the country.
Starbuck is "in a position where he can ride that wave," Jason Schwartz, an employment lawyer at the law firm Gibson Dunn, said. He added that he's had conversations with about 50 major companies about restructuring their diversity programs or communicating about them differently in order to avoid lawsuits, but few clients have aimed to scrap these efforts entirely.
The Starbuck defense playbook starts with stealth mode. Executives are telling employees not to look at Starbuck's profile on LinkedIn, which could attract his attention. (Starbuck told DealBook an "onslaught" of Lowe's employees looking at his profile initially drew his attention to the home goods retailer; it later became one of his targets.)
Communications and consulting firms trawl through any content that companies have on their website, annual report or elsewhere that might expose them to a potential attack from Starbuck. (Words like "diversity" and any public association with the Human Rights Campaign, an L.G.B.T.Q. advocacy group, are a particular red flag.)
Those considering dialing back some D.E.I. initiatives are also talking with unions, suppliers and others to understand the extent of potential financial repercussions. Will their liberal customers or suppliers boycott? Will their employees revolt? For many, these conversations started prior to Starbuck's campaigns.
Starbuck himself seems amused at the effort. "If these companies really want to know how to be in a position where they can be sort of corporately neutral and stay away from the ire of conservative consumers, feel free to just drop me a line," he told DealBook. "You don't pay $ 1 million to a terrible consulting firm."
He says many attempts to escape his attention, like deleting language from websites, are fruitless. "We have enough material to honestly go for years if necessary," he said.
However companies ultimately handle their response to the pushback over D.E.I., it is causing a moment of reckoning within corporate offices. An examination of D.E.I. efforts forces executives to consider whether they have followed through on promises they may have made several years ago. The next question is whether they still want to.
If executives are "learning for the first time about some various initiatives somewhere within the company," that's the first issue, said Brian Bartlett, a strategist at the communications firm Kekst CNC. The second is if those initiatives are not in line with company priorities. "That is problematic," he said.
Some executives say that changing how they talk or write about their D.E.I. efforts -- the most common remedy -- does not change the work that is going on behind the scenes. But for diversity experts, that maneuver naturally gives rise to different concerns: How do you hold your leadership accountable to something that is not written? And are companies at risk of simply listening to the whims of those provoking the day's online outrage?
Starbuck's audience is particular. Communications firm FGS Global found in its internal research that 17 percent of the "news-attentive" Americans it polled over age 45 have heard of him, while 38 percent of those under 45 have. It is also not clear how many of his 670,000 followers on X, and 350,000 Instagram followers, are actually bots.
"This very small minority of individuals have this outsized voice," Porter Braswell, the founder of 2045 Studio, a membership network for professionals of color, told DealBook. "It's forced all of us in the industry to start to have way more of a conviction around the importance of working together, so that we talk more about what's actually happening on the front lines."
For the cottage industry advising companies, any swing back in the pendulum may simply mean more fees and PowerPoint presentations. What that means for executives behind the scenes is up to them.
"The forces in this country politicized the issue," Liekefett said. "Well, don't talk about it, but still do it right."
-- Lauren Hirsch
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
Nvidia overtook Apple as the world's most valuable public company. The chip maker's market valuation briefly hit $ 3.53 trillion yesterday on the back of soaring demand for its artificial intelligence chips. Nvidia's surge came as the Nasdaq hit a record high.
Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris are in a dead heat in the popular vote. The final New York Times/Siena opinion poll before Election Day shows that the candidates both at 48 percent. It is the latest poll to show that the race remains tight but could be discouraging for Harris: In recent elections, Democrats have led in the popular vote even when they lost the electoral college.
Lina Khan's F.T.C. scores a big win as a judge blocks a luxury industry deal. A federal judge blocked Tapestry's $ 8.5 billion acquisition of Capri Holdings, a deal that would have combined the parent groups of Coach, Kate Spade and Michael Kors. The ruling is another win for the agency under Khan, who has pursued an aggressive agenda and used the courts to test the boundaries of antitrust law.
Baseball is set up to score a commercial home run
Major League Baseball and its broadcast partner Fox Sports couldn't be set up better for this year's World Series. The New York Yankees play in the largest television market and the Los Angeles Dodgers play in the second largest. And the teams include some of baseball's biggest stars, like the Dodgers' Shohei Ohtani and the Yankees' Aaron Judge.
"If I'm Rob Manfred, this is my dream scenario," said Rich Greenfield, a co-founder and media analyst at the research firm LightShed Partners, referring to the league's commissioner.
Ticket prices for the games are already among the most expensive ever. Now, the question is what the best possible commercial success for the World Series looks like in the new world of media.
Expectations for viewership aren't what they used to be. Dodgers and Yankees matchups in the past have delivered enormous television audiences, including the first and third largest.
But that was before the rise of streaming and the fragmentation of media. The most viewed World Series, in 1978, delivered more than 44 million viewers on average. "There was nothing else to watch," said Greenfield, noting that if this year's World Series clocks 15 million viewers in a game, it would be "a grand slam."
But today's smaller audiences aren't necessarily less valuable. "It's still watched more than almost anything else," said Patrick Crakes, a former Fox Sports executive who now works as an independent consultant. Broadcasters make about a third of their money from ads and the rest on fees they charge distributors.
Last year, the league changed some rules, like adding a pitch clock to make the game move along quicker and be more competitive with other programming.
This World Series may be the most lucrative in the modern era of media. Even in 2016, when the Cubs captured their first World Series win since 1908 and drew an average of 23 million viewers in the process, "the media environment was not as crowded as it is today," said John Kosner, a former ESPN executive who is now an independent consultant.
The World Series has been in a ratings slump, with the last four years sinking to historic lows. Defining the best-case scenario for the World Series could factor into future media deals, which typically come with a five- to 10-year commitment and take into account the spread of potential outcomes.
Even for deals that don't include the World Series, the potential excitement and star power of a hit championship matchup would be a boon for the M.L.B. The next big factor for its media deals is ESPN's option to get out of its contract, which it could use by the end of next season.
How Halloween became a major shopping season
The Halloween business has boomed, with expectations for spending growing to $ 11.6 billion this year from about $ 5.2 billion in inflation-adjusted terms in 2005, according to a survey by the National Retail Federation. Retailers are taking note, broadening their holiday themed product lines and putting them on shelves earlier.
Bill Boltz, the head of merchandising at Lowes, called the Halloween season "bigger than ever before" on the company's second-quarter earnings call.
Why is spooky spending on the rise?
Halloween isn't just for kids anymore. The holiday was once focused mostly on taking children trick-or-treating. Now, more adults have gotten involved as sharing images of costumes and decorations on social media has taken off, Katherine Cullen, who leads research at the N.R.F., told DealBook.
Spending on decorations ticked up during the pandemic, as people sought a way to celebrate when precautions shut down many Halloween parties and trick-or-treating. Consumers have kept up the trend, and decoration spending remains elevated.
Customers are shopping earlier than ever. About half of consumers in the N.R.F. survey said they started shopping for Halloween before October, compared with about 30 percent in 2014. Amy Sullivan, the C.E.O. of Kirkland's Home, said on a recent earnings call about Halloween products: "We definitely brought it in about a week early this year. I would say there's opportunity to maybe even accelerate that further as we move into future years."
Gifting holidays are still bigger. Halloween is now the ninth biggest spending season for retailers, trailing holidays including Easter and Mother's Day. "Considering that Halloween doesn't involve gift-giving," Cullen said, "it is very impressive."
Thanks for reading! We'll see you Monday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Inclusion; Negative campaigning; Presidential elections; State employees; Law firms; Litigation; Professional baseball; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Law firms Breweries

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: NVidia Corp; NAICS: 334413, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/26/business/dealbook/dei-backlash-advisers.html

Title: New Wall St. Business: Battling D.E.I. Backlash:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 28, 2024

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3121139962

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-wall-st-business-battling-d-e-i-backlash/docview/3121139962/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Seattle Tech Executive Is Charged With Rape: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Weise, Karen

Publication info: Weise, Karen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seattle-tech-executive-is-charged-with-rape/docview/3120731173/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The former chief of Gravity Payments rose to prominence with the introduction of his company's $ 70,000 minimum salary and a splashy social media presence.
Dan Price, a Seattle tech executive who rose to fame for publicly raising the salaries of his employees and as a progressive social media influencer, was charged with rape on Thursday in Riverside County, Calif., according to court records.
Mr. Price, 40, was indicted last month by a grand jury on a charge of rape of an unconscious victim, according to Riverside Superior Court records unsealed on Thursday. Mr. Price, who voluntarily appeared in court and posted $ 55,000 in bail on Thursday, is scheduled to be arraigned in January, according to the documents.
The indictment stems from an incident in 2021 when, a girlfriend said, Mr. Price raped her at the Ace Hotel in Palm Springs, Calif., after she had said she did not want to have sex, took a cannabis edible and went to sleep. The woman, Kacie Margis, reported the incident to the police the next day. She went public with her story in 2022 as part of a New York Times investigation that found that Mr. Price had repeatedly used his fame to enable a pattern of abuse in his personal life and hostile behavior at his company.
Mr. Price denied the claims, but stepped down as chief executive of his company, Gravity Payments, to "focus full time on fighting false allegations made about me."
"As I said when these false allegations were reported over two years ago, I have never physically or sexually abused anyone," Mr. Price said in a statement provided by his lawyer, Vicki Podberesky. He said he would fight the charge.
Ms. Podberesky said, "Nothing has changed in the two years since these allegations were first reported: There is no credible evidence to support this accusation, and Mr. Price categorically denies that he sexually assaulted anyone." She said they were confident that he would be cleared of wrongdoing.
She added that the district attorney had made arrangements to allow Mr. Price to appear voluntarily in court, without an arrest.
The Riverside County district attorney's office declined to comment.
Ms. Margis declined to comment. She recently wrote on Instagram about waiting for justice, saying, "I've got a voice for telling the truth and no one else is going to silence me."
Mr. Price garnered international attention in 2015 when he raised the pay of his employees at Gravity Payments, which processes credit card transactions, to a minimum of $ 70,000, partly through reducing his own salary. He appeared in The Times, on "Good Morning America" and on the cover of magazines.
He lost favor for a time after Bloomberg Businessweek reported that his story about the pay raise had notable holes and that his former wife had said in a TEDx talk that he had abused her, which he also denied.
After lying low for a few years, Mr. Price began building a following on social media around 2019, railing against corporate malfeasance, out-of-control executive pay and gender inequity. Many of the women who went public in The Times with their stories said they had met him online or had been drawn in by his progressive ideas and influence.
In 2022, the district attorney's office in Seattle charged Mr. Price with misdemeanor reckless driving and assault with sexual motivation in an incident involving another woman, but dropped the case the next year, citing insufficient proof.
This May, Mr. Price announced on social media that he had returned to his company. In recent months he has resumed his progressive posts on LinkedIn and X.
Ms. Podberesky, Mr. Price's lawyer, has worked on several high-profile cases in Los Angeles. She represented the Church of Scientology in matters related to the rape case against the "That '70s Show" actor Danny Masterson, who was sentenced to 30 years to life in prison.
Photograph Dan Price garnered international attention in 2015 when he raised the salaries of his employees at Gravity Payments to a minimum of $ 70,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Indictments; District attorneys; Rape; Social networks; Wages & salaries; Chief executive officers; Sex crimes

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Wages & salaries Chief executive officers

Location: United States--US; Riverside County California

People: Price, Dan

Company / organization: Name: Grav ity Payments; NAICS: 522320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/25/technology/dan-price-gravity-payments-ceo-rape.html

Title: Seattle Tech Executive Is Charged With Rape:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 26, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3120731173

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seattle-tech-executive-is-charged-with-rape/docview/3120731173/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Jump in Trump Media Stock Masks Turmoil Among Staff: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldstein, Matthew

Publication info: Goldstein, Matthew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jump-trump-media-stock-masks-turmoil-among-staff/docview/3119858018/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Employees have complained to the board about hiring and management practices at the parent company of Truth Social, which serves as the main online megaphone for former President Donald Trump.
The parent company of former President Donald J. Trump's social media platform has soared on the stock market over the past month, despite growing turmoil behind the scenes.
In recent weeks, Trump Media & Technology Group has dismissed or pushed out at least three senior managers amid employee complaints about the leadership of Devin Nunes, the former Republican congressman who is chief executive, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.
The departures came after several employees anonymously sent a letter, which they described as a whistle-blower complaint, to Trump Media's board a few weeks ago. The letter accused Mr. Nunes of being over-reliant on foreign contract workers and mismanagement. A copy of the letter was reviewed by The New York Times.
It was not clear whether the employees who were pushed out of Trump Media were involved in drafting the letter.
In the letter, the employees said that Mr. Nunes's "directive" to hire foreign contractors was inconsistent with "the 'America First' principles we stand for." Trump Media has looked to outsource some work to Cosmic Development, a technology company based in Canada that has operations in Macedonia and Serbia, said the two people.
Mr. Trump, who is the largest shareholder of Trump Media and the main draw for users on Truth Social, has talked on the campaign trail about imposing stiff tariffs on foreign goods and U.S. companies that outsource abroad.
Separate from the letter, employees at Trump Media have also raised concerns that Mr. Nunes rarely visits the company's headquarters in Sarasota, Fla., said the people.
The letter said that Mr. Nunes has not formally addressed Trump Media's staff in two years and that "this lack of transparency has left employees in the dark about the company's vision, strategy and future." The letter also said that Mr. Nunes relied too heavily on "unqualified members of his inner circle."
Details of the letter were first reported by ProPublica.
Trump Media's stock is volatile and often trades as a proxy for Mr. Trump's political fortunes. Over the past month, its share price has more than doubled, as polls ahead of the presidential vote have tightened and betting markets have tilted in favor of Mr. Trump.
Trump Media made its market debut in March, after merging with a public shell company. The stock initially surged, peaking above $ 60 per share, before a long slide erased much of its value, bottoming out at around $ 12 late last month. It traded at about $ 35.50 on Wednesday.
Mr. Trump owns about 59 percent of the company's stock, a stake worth $ 3.4 billion.
Shannon Devine, a spokeswoman for Trump Media, said: "The New York Times continues its jihad against the truth and fact-based reporting -- this time by using fake information from sources the reporter knows to be unreliable in order to gin up defamatory conspiracy theories and fake news."
Truth Social has yet to turn profit and has struggled to attract new users and advertisers since it launched in early 2022. In September, Truth Social had 698,000 monthly active users in the United States, compared with 70.4 million for X, according to Similarweb, a data tracking site.
Mr. Trump has no official role at the company. He has said little about the direction of the company except to praise Truth Social. He remarked in April that Truth Social is "not very expensive to run."
The company's seven-member board includes Mr. Nunes, Mr. Trump's eldest son and three former members of the Trump administration. The whistle-blower letter was addressed to the board's audit committee, which includes Robert Lighthizer, a former U.S. trade representative, and Linda McMahon, a former administrator of the Small Business Administration.
The board brought in an outside lawyer to question several employees about the letter, according to one of the people. Soon after, at least three top employees were told they either should resign or would be pushed out.
In a regulatory filing this month, Trump Media disclosed that Andrew Northwall, the company's chief operating officer, had resigned. Trump Media's chief product officer, Sandro De Moraes, also recently left the company, according to his Truth Social profile, as did a lower-ranking employee in the human resources department.
Trump Media had 36 full time employees at the end of last year, according to filings. There are now under 30 full-time employees, people with knowledge of the details said.
Trump Media employs five people who were part of Mr. Nunes's former congressional staff, including Scott Glabe, the company's general counsel, according to people with knowledge of the company and biographical information on LinkedIn. Mr. Glabe served as staff director for Mr. Nunes on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.
In naming Mr. Nunes as chief executive in 2022, Trump Media tapped one of Mr. Trump's most outspoken supporters in Congress. But Mr. Nunes brought limited experience running a tech company. Before being elected to Congress in 2003, his main business experience came from working for his family's dairy farm.
In the letter to Trump Media's board, the employees said they did not trust Mr. Nunes and worried about retaliation for speaking out.
Photograph Donald J. Trump with Devin Nunes, left, a former congressman who is chief executive of Trump Media & Technology Group, and Speaker Mike Johnson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MADDIE MCGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Employees of Trump Media complain Mr. Nunes rarely visits its headquarters in Sarasota, Fla., according to two people with knowledge of the matter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL ADNO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Political campaigns; Employee complaints; Whistleblowing

Business indexing term: Subject: Employee complaints

Location: Sarasota Florida; New York; United States--US

People: Nunes, Devin

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120; Name: Trump Media & Technology Group; NAICS: 518210; Name: Truth Social; NAICS: 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/22/business/trump-media-truth-social-nunes.html

Title: Jump in Trump Media Stock Masks Turmoil Among Staff:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3119858018

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jump-trump-media-stock-masks-turmoil-among-staff/docview/3119858018/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Executives Have Found Defending Democracy Comes With Some Risks: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/executives-have-found-defending-democracy-comes/docview/3118584662/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Even seemingly anodyne sentiments supporting fair elections have become politically charged.
Republicans have spent months laying the groundwork to challenge a defeat of Donald Trump in the presidential election. During a fund-raising call organized by corporate lawyers in September, Douglas Emhoff, the husband of Vice President Kamala Harris, asked for help if those efforts veer outside legal grounds.
According to two people on the call, Emhoff asked the lawyers to reiterate to their corporate clients the risks posed by efforts to undermine the integrity of the election.
The request underlines the pressure some executives are feeling to repeat public calls they made four year ago, urging politicians to respect the results of the 2020 presidential election.
But making those kinds of public statements may have gotten more complicated. Executives, who were outspoken during the pandemic, have resumed their efforts to stay out of politics. And seemingly anodyne sentiments are now politically charged: Only one of two candidates has refused to commit to a peaceful transfer of power. That candidate has support of roughly half the country. And he has made it clear that if he takes power, he's willing to go after his enemies.
Democracy, as a term, "has become kind of loaded" for executives, Charles Elson, the founding director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance, told DealBook.
"I think that's why you haven't heard anything from them. But you got two weeks to go."
The landscape has changed. The Blackstone C.E.O. Stephen Schwarzman and the hedge fund boss Nelson Peltz, two billionaires who condemned Trump after the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol, have since offered him their support. And one of his most high-profile supporters, Tesla C.E.O. Elon Musk, has questioned the accuracy of elections himself by repeating debunked claims about fraud: "When you have mail-in ballots and no proof of citizenship, it's almost impossible to prove cheating," Musk said at a rally in Pennsylvania this week.
Some corporate chiefs may have shifted because they prefer Trump's deregulatory agenda or they share concerns over immigration policy.
Several of Harris's influential supporters, who include the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman and the entrepreneur Mark Cuban, have taken a starkly different view of the election stakes. They point to preservation of democracy as one reason for their support. And they argue there is no functioning business without a working democracy.
Many executives are waiting. The Business Roundtable, a lobbying group that represents large companies, this week issued a statement underlining that "the stability of America's economy depends on free and fair elections." Several hundred small businesses have also signed a letter supporting "the fundamental principles of American democracy."
But individual executives speaking out now risk alienating employees and customers, Kathryn Wylde, the president of the Partnership for New York City, a business advocacy group that represents some of the biggest companies in finance, told DealBook. She believes more executives are likely to speak out should any potential threat to the country become a reality.
"If it appears that it's going to be disruptive to the functioning of government, or threatening to constitutional democracy, it will call for a response from business leaders and leaders throughout society," she said.
They may not be willing to pull their pocketbooks. The weeks following the Jan. 6 attack saw a pause in giving to Republicans who did not vote to certify the election. But that faded quickly. By 2022, overall donations from Fortune 500 companies and about 700 trade associations to election objectors in Congress had fallen by about 10 percent compared to 2020, according to the political watchdog Accountable.US. And more than 250 companies and industry groups increased donations to those lawmakers.
"I don't know of anybody who paused, who is continuing to pause," Kenneth Gross, a lawyer advising on corporate giving at Akin Gump, told DealBook. Gross said he had no recent conversations with clients about a similar tact this year.
The pressure is rising. In a letter to business leaders released Friday, a number of business associations, including Main Street Alliance and Black Economic Alliance, urged business leaders to vocalize their support of free and fair elections. "We know first-hand that a vibrant and stable economy relies on a strong democracy," they wrote.
"They're asking, should we start talking?" Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a Yale professor who worked with many major companies in their response to the 2020 election, told DealBook. "They're starting to talk about getting prepared for what they would say and how they say it."
-- Lauren Hirsch
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
Banks reported better-than-expected earnings. Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase reported a combined $ 6.5 billion in investment banking fees for last quarter, up 27 percent from a year earlier. Smaller players like PNC and Charles Schwab also had a strong showing, appearing to have moved on from last year's regional banking crisis.
Big tech went nuclear. Google and Amazon struck deals with nuclear power plants to fuel their data centers as the artificial intelligence boom demands more energy. The tech industry's backing of nuclear projects could help reinvigorate a power source that has struggled.
Elliott Investment Management took another step to replace Southwest's board. The activist hedge fund made its first demand for a special meeting of the airline's shareholders, where it hopes to install its eight candidates for the company's board. Southwest pushed back, saying that it had sought to reach a settlement.
A group of big election bettors kept internet sleuths busy. Four accounts on the prediction market Polymarket have together wagered about $ 30 million on a Trump win. It's not clear who the accounts belong to or what their motives are: Are they convinced Trump will win, or are they trying to influence the election by making a Trump victory look more likely?
Who the business of baseball is rooting for
No matter which Major League Baseball teams end up facing off for the World Series starting next week, the business of baseball is set up for a win. Three of the four remaining contenders -- the Los Angeles Dodgers, the New York Yankees and the New York Mets -- are home teams to the country's two biggest TV markets; and the fourth, the Cleveland Guardians, hasn't won a World Series since 1948.
Big fan bases and exciting story lines are welcome news after last year's matchup between the Texas Rangers and Arizona Diamondbacks earned the lowest ratings for a World Series ever. But which matchup sports executives are rooting for may depend on their particular business interests.
Television: Yankees vs. Dodgers. New York and Los Angeles are the first- and second-largest TV markets in the country. And the series would feature two of the biggest stars in baseball, the Dodgers' Shohei Ohtani and Yankees' Aaron Judge.
Fox owns the U.S. broadcast rights to the World Series. Patrick Crakes, a former Fox Sports executive, told DealBook that a matchup between these two teams could push prices for a 30-second spot in Game 7 up to $ 700,000. He estimated ads for other matchups would be priced about 10 percent to 15 percent lower.
John Kosner, a former ESPN executive and the president of Kosner Media, told DealBook his second choice for maximizing ratings would be a Yankees vs. Mets matchup. "N.Y.C. is the biggest media market and still the center for advertising, and this series would generate a lot of attention," he told DealBook.
Merch: Yankees vs. Mets. DealBook hears that the sports apparel company Fanatics is rooting for a subway series. Why? Because a big portion of merchandise sales associated with the World Series will be in championship gear.
New York's teams both have huge fan bases, and if one of them wins, it'll theoretically create the biggest opportunity to sell that celebratory gear. Another factor at play: Fans who have withstood long World Series droughts typically buy more souvenirs.
Tickets: Whoever plays the most games. The ticket seller SeatGeek's C.E.O. and founder, Jack Groetzinger, said that a Yankees vs. Dodgers matchup would be his first choice, because the teams "have massive followings that attract not just die-hard fans but also casual viewers," but that "what really matters for ticketers is having a competitive, extended series." More games means more tickets.
Your thoughts on the remote work debate
Last weekend, we wrote about why C.E.O.s like Amazon's Andy Jassy and Goldman Sachs's David Solomon have forced employees to return to the office full-time despite research suggesting that hybrid work can benefit employers. Many of you wrote to us with your own thoughts on why executives and researchers disagree. Here are a few:
Margaret Campbell, a professor of marketing at the University of California, Riverside, wrote that it is important to consider what each group is focusing on: "When I talk to executives, they are concerned about the effect of remote work on productivity and, critically, creativity and problem-solving," she wrote. "While they are happy to have employees who are satisfied with their work, they are trying to optimize the extent to which the firm is providing value to their customers."
Cassia Bandeau, an architect in Los Angeles, pointed to a proposed class-action lawsuit that an Amazon employee brought against the company seeking compensation for office expenses while working from home (the lawsuit failed). Companies are "already paying for large offices, so the idea of compensating for home office expenses as well is likely seen as a huge unneeded expense," she wrote.
Leslie Graves, the founder of the politics website Ballotpedia, wishes that more research looked into the specific work habits and managerial practices that make remote work succeed. "Because it has always been remote, our managers have created many tactics and strategies that cause our fully remote workplace to work, and to have a strong culture," she wrote.
Thanks for reading! We'll see you Monday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Hedge funds; Employees; Professional baseball; Executives; Work at home; Election results; Presidential elections; Democracy; Nuclear power plants; Political advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Hedge funds Employees Executives Work at home Nuclear power plants

Location: New York; United States--US; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; NAICS: 523150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/19/business/dealbook/executives-election-democracy.html

Title: Executives Have Found Defending Democracy Comes With Some Risks:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 21, 2024

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3118584662

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/executives-have-found-defending-democracy-comes/docview/3118584662/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Donations To Adams Plummet After Charges: [National Desk]

Author: Mays, Jeffery C; Pallaro, Bianca

Publication info: Mays, Jeffery C; Pallaro, Bianca. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/donations-adams-plummet-after-charges/docview/3116795455/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Donations to the New York City mayor's re-election campaign ceased after a five-count federal corruption indictment against him was unsealed last month.
Mayor Eric Adams of New York saw donations to his re-election campaign take a nosedive after his federal indictment last month on five counts of bribery, fraud and soliciting illegal foreign campaign donations.
Of the roughly $ 146,000 in donations reported for the filing period of July 12 to Oct. 7, only $ 250 was contributed after news broke of his indictment, according to the New York City Campaign Finance Board. It came on Sept. 26, the same day the indictment was unsealed.
The mayor's haul was less than half the amount raised by Brad Lander, the city comptroller, who took in just over $ 315,000 for his mayoral campaign.
It was also 51 percent less than what Mr. Adams raised during the same period last year, when he received almost $ 296,000 in donations.
Scott M. Stringer, a former city comptroller who is running for mayor, raised $ 180,000 in the last three months. Zellnor Myrie, a state senator from Brooklyn who is also running but is less well known, raised $ 137,000.
"The special interest and permanent government money has turned off the spigot," Mr. Stringer said about Mr. Adams's fund-raising numbers.
Mr. Adams has raised a total of $ 4.1 million for his 2025 re-election campaign. That money could unlock another $ 4.3 million in matching funds -- putting him above the $ 7.93 million spending cap for the June primary. It is unclear whether the mayor will qualify for matching funds, which have not yet been disbursed.
The mayor and his campaign's compliance lawyer, Vito Pitta, said that fund-raising efforts slowed in recent months because the campaign was close to raising the maximum amount it could spend in the primary. With the $ 146,000 in new contributions, Mr. Pitta said, the campaign has now hit that mark "far ahead of schedule."
"We had just a small amount to raise," Mr. Adams said on Tuesday. "And so based on whatever is required, I always step up to the plate to do what is required."
However, most candidates in Mr. Adams's position continue to raise money for the general election in November, where candidates can spend another $ 7.93 million.
"They don't just stop. That never happens," said John Kaehny, executive director of Reinvent Albany, a good-government group. The mayor's reasoning, he said, was a "convenient fig leaf for the fact that his donations have dried up."
Even the $ 250 donation to Mr. Adams on Sept. 26 was shrouded in some mystery. The contribution came from Mike Koba, a Queens man who was listed as being unemployed. Yet numerous records and a company website suggest that he owns Koba Capital Insurance Brokers, a New York firm.
Regarding the donor's employment status, Mr. Pitta said, "That is the information self-reported by the contributor."
Mr. Koba's LinkedIn profile includes a picture of him with Mr. Adams. He donated $ 250 to the mayor in August. When reached by The New York Times and asked to explain the discrepancy, Mr. Koba said that what was listed was "not accurate" but declined to elaborate.
"Now is not the right time for me," said Mr. Koba, who said his wife was about to have a baby.
Mr. Adams is accused of conspiring with foreign nationals to illegally funnel money to his 2021 and 2025 mayoral campaigns through so-called straw donors. The indictment also detailed instances in which Mr. Adams's 2021 campaign encouraged businessmen to circumvent contribution limits by having their employees make donations and then reimbursing them.
Mr. Adams's campaign, the indictment said, would later boost these donations using the city's matching funds program, which awards candidates $ 8 for every dollar they receive from a city resident up to the first $ 250.
There have been calls to bar Mr. Adams's 2025 campaign from tapping into the program. Lincoln Restler, a city councilman from Brooklyn who leads the committee that oversees the Campaign Finance Board, sent a letter to the board last month asking it not to award the mayor any matching funds.
Both Mr. Lander and Jessica Ramos, a state senator from Queens who is running for mayor, have also said that Mr. Adams should not receive matching funds. The Campaign Finance Board will make a decision on the matter in December.
In a statement, Rebecca Rodriguez, a senior adviser to Mr. Lander, contrasted the comptroller's "strong fund-raising" with the "major questions swirling around Eric Adams's ability to qualify for matching funds due to his federal indictment."
Mr. Adams declined to answer most questions about fund-raising at his weekly news conference on Tuesday, including whether Brianna Suggs, his former chief fund-raiser whose home was raided by the F.B.I. in November, still worked for him.
The filing listed a payment of $ 2,925 to Ms. Suggs from June 9, 2023, which is outside the filing period. The last payment she received was in April.
The mayor has also been fund-raising for his legal defense fund, which is required to report third-quarter donations by midnight Tuesday. As of the last filing, the fund had raised $ 1.7 million and spent $ 1.1 million.
The latest campaign disclosures show that Mr. Adams's 2025 mayoral campaign paid $ 14,000 to Michael Giaccio, who was also separately retained to raise money for the legal defense fund. Mr. Giaccio's firm, Bedford Grove, also received $ 26,375 on July 31.
Illustration Mayor Eric Adams reported roughly $ 146,000 in donations from July 12 to Oct. 7. JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES This article appeared in print on page A21.

Subject: Fund raising; Local elections; Comptrollers; Donations; Mayors; Legal defense; Political finance; Campaign contributions; Corruption in government

Business indexing term: Subject: Comptrollers Donations

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

People: Adams, Eric

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/15/nyregion/eric-adams-donations-money.html

Title: Donations To Adams Plummet After Charges:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.21

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 16, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3116795455

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/donations-adams-plummet-after-charges/docview/3116795455/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Some Believe in Trump, Without Believing Him: [National Desk]

Author: Mccreesh, Shawn

Publication info: Mccreesh, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-believe-trump-without-believing-him/docview/3116492557/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When the former president endorses violence and proposes using the government to attack his enemies, many of his supporters assume it's just an act.
One of the more peculiar aspects of Donald J. Trump's political appeal is this: A lot of people are happy to vote for him because they simply do not believe he will do many of the things he says he will.
The former president has talked about weaponizing the Justice Department and jailing political opponents. He has said he would purge the government of non-loyalists and that he would have trouble hiring anyone who admits that the 2020 election wasn't stolen. He proposed "one really violent day" in which police officers could get "extraordinarily rough" with impunity. He has promised mass deportations and predicted it would be "a bloody story." And while many of his supporters thrill at such talk, there are plenty of others who figure it's all just part of some big act.
There is, of course, evidence to the contrary. During Mr. Trump's term in office, some of his autocratic rhetoric did become reality. He really did set in motion a Muslim ban; he really did order up investigations of his foes; he really did foment a mob when the election didn't go his way. But in other instances he was stymied, and a lot of his strongman jaw-jaw remained just that.
That's the way some of his voters think another term might go. It's how they rationalize his rhetoric, by affording him a reverse benefit of the doubt. They doubt; he benefits.
Last Thursday, inside a small music venue in downtown Detroit during the middle of the day, you could see this phenomenon playing out quite clearly.
Mr. Trump was there to address the Detroit Economic Club. Presidents Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama had all, in their respective days, come to Michigan to talk to this club, too.
There were a few hundred people there. They were not the sorts of people one encounters at a Trump rally. They weren't construction workers or truck drivers or forklift operators; they carried business cards and had very active LinkedIn pages. They did not wear red hats or T-shirts with images of Mr. Trump's bloodied face; they wore windowpane suit jackets and loafers and rather conspicuous cuff links.
They did not want to hear about "one really violent day" or about the deep state or the Marxists or the fascists or any of the other radical or antidemocratic visions that Mr. Trump describes in baroque detail at his rallies. They just wanted him to tell them that he would be good for business.
So, he did. For nearly two hours. There were rough edges in his remarks, and some talk of a stolen election, but mostly he made them feel content in their choice to vote for him. They chuckled at his self-deprecating wisecracks about his age, his body, his hair and his wealth. He talked about American muscle cars and regaled them with tales of how he went toe-to-toe with various world leaders and about his new buddy, Elon Musk. They cooed when he told them his daughter Tiffany was newly pregnant, and clapped when he said, however improbably, that he would work with Democrats to get stuff done. This was the version of Mr. Trump in which they (and their 401ks) wanted to believe.
They found it easy to tune out the other versions of him.
"I think the media blows stuff out of proportion for sensationalism," said Mario Fachini, a 40-year-old Detroit man who owns a book publishing company. His black hair was gelled back and he had on a boxy, black pinstriped suit with a gold pocket square peeking out. There were tiny model globes hanging from his cuff links. He held up his wrist and gave one a spin.
Asked if he believed Mr. Trump would purge the federal government and fill its ranks with election deniers, Mr. Fachini sipped his iced tea and thought for a moment. "I don't," he said. So why was Mr. Trump saying he wanted to do that? "It could just be for publicity," Mr. Fachini said with a shrug, "just riling up the news."
Mary Burney, a 49-year-old woman from Grosse Pointe, Mich., who works in sales for a radio station, described herself as an independent-turned-Trump-voter. She did not believe the former president would really persecute his political opponents, even though he has mused about appointing a special prosecutor to "go after" President Biden and members of his family. "I don't think that's on his list of things to do," she said. "No, no."
Tom Pierce, a 67-year-old from Northville, Mich., did not truly believe that Mr. Trump would round up enough immigrants to carry out "the largest mass deportation operation in history." Even though that is pretty much the central promise of his campaign.
"He may say things, and then it gets people all upset," said Mr. Pierce, "but then he turns around and he says, 'No, I'm not doing that.' It's a negotiation. But people don't understand that."
Did Mr. Pierce, a former chief financial officer, believe Mr. Trump would actually levy a 200 percent tariff against certain companies? "No," he said. "That's the other thing. You've got to sometimes scare these other countries." (Indeed. In an interview on Fox News on Sunday, Mr. Trump said, "I'm using that just as a figure. I'll say 100, 200, I'll say 500, I don't care.")
Mr. Pierce added, "He's not perfect. And I don't necessarily care for his personality, but I do like how we had peace and prosperity."
That dynamic is one that Mr. Trump has had with voters ever since he stormed onto the political scene nine years ago, and it endures, even as his language has grown darker. In the latest New York Times/Siena College poll, 41 percent of likely voters agreed with the assessment that "people who are offended by Donald Trump take his words too seriously."
"The normal rules just don't apply to Donald Trump, and you've seen it time and again," said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster. Mr. Newhouse said that he has found in his polling and focus groups that "people think he says things for effect, that he's blustering, because that's part of what he does, his shtick. They don't believe that it's actually going to happen."
But Mr. Trump and those around him have said a second term would be different, since he finally has a firm grip on his party, and because many of the roadblocks that slowed him down before have been pulverized. This is a key part of Vice President Kamala Harris's pitch to voters. "Understand what it would mean if Donald Trump were back in the White House with no guardrails, because certainly we know now the court won't stop him," she said during their debate. "We know JD Vance is not going to stop him."
Still, even some of Mr. Trump's more hardcore supporters, the people who go to the rallies, wonder how far he can or will go. Hal Garrigues, a retired pilot who attended a Trump rally in Bozeman, Mont., this year said in a phone interview that he didn't believe Mr. Trump would "go after" Mr. Biden or his family, "because, I mean, before he said the same crap about Hillary, and then he didn't do anything."
Mr. Garrigues did not think that Mr. Trump would take the United States out of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ("It'll never happen"), nor did he worry about Mr. Trump's fantasy of "one violent day" of policing. "Nah, that's just a sound bite," he said. "He's not going to do that."
"I think people have very thick shock absorbers when it comes to Donald Trump," said Kellyanne Conway, the Republican pollster who served as a senior counselor to the former president. "People have a very good sense of sussing out rhetoric from reality."
And yet, as president, much of Mr. Trump's rhetoric did become reality. What he said on Jan. 6, 2021 -- "If you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore" -- ultimately led to his impeachment for inciting insurrection.
In a new book by Bob Woodward, General Mark A. Milley is quoted as saying the former president is "fascist to the core." Mr. Milley is just one in a long line of top officials and military leaders who worked for Mr. Trump and then told tales afterward about having to constantly work to prevent him from acting out his most antidemocratic impulses.
In Detroit, Mr. Trump told a version of that reality that was not entirely different. He lamented how his first term in Washington had gone, admitted that he didn't know much about the way the town worked, and that he had to rely on people he could not trust to carry out his wishes. "I now know the game a little better," he said.
But he also seemed to be aware that there are many people who wonder about some of the words that come out of his mouth. Maybe some of those people were there in that very room. Maybe that's why he went on a tangent about all the ways he thinks Democrats are screwing things up and then said, "You see, that's the real threat to democracy -- stupid people."
The businesspeople began to clap.
Photograph Attendees at Thursday's speech. One said that Mr. Trump was probably "just riling up the news."; In his speech to the Detroit Economic Club, Donald J. Trump mainly talked about how he'd be good for business. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY ELCONIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10.

Subject: Rhetoric; Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Voters; Politics; Voter behavior

Location: United States--US; Detroit Michigan

People: Trump, Donald J

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/14/us/elections/trump-promises-extreme-rhetoric.html

Title: Some Believe in Trump, Without Believing Him:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 15, 2024

column: Campaign Notebook

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3116492557

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-believe-trump-without-believing-him/docview/3116492557/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Trump Voters Who Don’t Believe Trump

Author: McCreesh, Shawn

Publication info: McCreesh, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-voters-who-don-t-believe/docview/3116443660/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
DETROIT — One of the more peculiar aspects of Donald Trump’s political appeal is this: A lot of people are happy to vote for him because they simply do not believe he will do many of the things he says he will.
The former president has talked about weaponizing the Justice Department and jailing political opponents. He has said he would purge the government of nonloyalists and that he would have trouble hiring anyone who admits that the 2020 election wasn’t stolen. He proposed “one really violent day” in which police officers could get “extraordinarily rough” with impunity. He has promised mass deportations and predicted it would be “a bloody story.” And while many of his supporters thrill at such talk, there are plenty of others who figure it’s all just part of some big act.
There is, of course, evidence to the contrary. During Trump’s term in office, some of his autocratic rhetoric did become reality. He really did set in motion a Muslim ban; he really did order up investigations of his foes; he really did foment a mob when the election didn’t go his way. But in other instances he was stymied, and a lot of his strongman jaw-jaw remained just that.
That’s the way some of his voters think another term might go. It’s how they rationalize his rhetoric, by affording him a reverse benefit of the doubt. They doubt; he benefits.
On Thursday, inside a small music venue in downtown Detroit during the middle of the day, you could see this phenomenon playing out quite clearly.
Trump was there to address the Detroit Economic Club. Presidents Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama had all, in their respective days, come to Michigan to talk to this club, too.
There were a few hundred people there. They were not the sorts of people one encounters at a Trump rally. They weren’t construction workers or truck drivers or forklift operators; they carried business cards and had very active LinkedIn pages. They did not wear red hats or T-shirts with images of Trump’s bloodied face; they wore windowpane suit jackets and loafers and rather conspicuous cuff links.
They did not want to hear about “one really violent day” or about the deep state or the Marxists or the fascists or any of the other radical or antidemocratic visions that Trump describes in baroque detail at his rallies. They just wanted him to tell them that he would be good for business.
So, he did. For nearly two hours. There were rough edges in his remarks, and some talk of a stolen election, but mostly he made them feel content in their choice to vote for him. They chuckled at his self-deprecating wisecracks about his age, his body, his hair and his wealth. He talked about American muscle cars and regaled them with tales of how he went toe-to-toe with various world leaders and about his new buddy, Elon Musk. They cooed when he told them his daughter Tiffany was newly pregnant, and clapped when he said, however improbably, that he would work with Democrats to get stuff done. This was the version of Trump in which they (and their 401ks) wanted to believe.
They found it easy to tune out the other versions of him.
“I think the media blows stuff out of proportion for sensationalism,” said Mario Fachini, 40, of Detroit, who owns a book publishing company. His black hair was gelled back and he had on a boxy, black pinstriped suit with a gold pocket square peeking out. There were tiny model globes hanging from his cuff links. He held up his wrist and gave one a spin.
Asked if he believed Trump would purge the federal government and fill its ranks with election deniers, Fachini sipped his iced tea and thought for a moment. “I don’t,” he said. So why was Trump saying he wanted to do that? “It could just be for publicity,” Fachini said with a shrug, “just riling up the news.”
Mary Burney, 49, of Grosse Pointe, Michigan, who works in sales for a radio station, described herself as an independent-turned-Trump-voter. She did not believe the former president would really persecute his political opponents, even though he has mused about appointing a special prosecutor to “go after” President Joe Biden and members of his family. “I don’t think that’s on his list of things to do,” she said. “No, no.”
Tom Pierce, 67, of Northville, Michigan, did not truly believe that Trump would round up enough immigrants to carry out “the largest mass deportation operation in history.” Even though that is pretty much the central promise of his campaign.
“He may say things, and then it gets people all upset,” Pierce said, “but then he turns around and he says, ‘No, I’m not doing that.’ It’s a negotiation. But people don’t understand that.”
Did Pierce, a former chief financial officer, believe Trump would actually levy a 200% tariff against certain companies? “No,” he said. “That’s the other thing. You’ve got to sometimes scare these other countries.” (Indeed. In an interview on Fox News on Sunday, Trump said, “I’m using that just as a figure. I’ll say 100, 200, I’ll say 500, I don’t care.”)
Pierce added, “He’s not perfect. And I don’t necessarily care for his personality, but I do like how we had peace and prosperity.”
That dynamic is one that Trump has had with voters ever since he stormed onto the political scene nine years ago, and it endures, even as his language has grown darker. In the latest New York Times/Siena College poll, 41% of likely voters agreed with the assessment that “people who are offended by Donald Trump take his words too seriously.”
“The normal rules just don’t apply to Donald Trump, and you’ve seen it time and again,” said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster. Newhouse said he has found in his polling and focus groups that “people think he says things for effect, that he’s blustering, because that’s part of what he does, his shtick. They don’t believe that it’s actually going to happen.”
But Trump and those around him have said a second term would be different, since he finally has a firm grip on his party, and because many of the roadblocks that slowed him down before have been pulverized. This is a key part of Vice President Kamala Harris’ pitch to voters. “Understand what it would mean if Donald Trump were back in the White House with no guardrails, because certainly we know now the court won’t stop him,” she said during their debate. “We know JD Vance is not going to stop him.”
Still, even some of Trump’s more hard-core supporters, the people who go to the rallies, wonder how far he can or will go. Hal Garrigues, a retired pilot who attended a Trump rally in Bozeman, Montana, this year said in a phone interview that he didn’t believe Trump would “go after” Biden or his family, “because, I mean, before he said the same crap about Hillary, and then he didn’t do anything.”
Garrigues did not think that Trump would take the United States out of NATO (“It’ll never happen”), nor did he worry about Trump’s fantasy of “one violent day” of policing. “Nah, that’s just a sound bite,” he said. “He’s not going to do that.”
“I think people have very thick shock absorbers when it comes to Donald Trump,” said Kellyanne Conway, the Republican pollster who served as a senior counselor to the former president. “People have a very good sense of sussing out rhetoric from reality.”
And yet, as president, much of Trump’s rhetoric did become reality. What he said Jan. 6, 2021 — “If you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore” — ultimately led to his impeachment for inciting insurrection.
In a new book by Bob Woodward, Gen. Mark Milley is quoted as saying the former president is “fascist to the core.” Milley is just one in a long line of top officials and military leaders who worked for Trump and then told tales afterward about having to constantly work to prevent him from acting out his most antidemocratic impulses.
In Detroit, Trump told a version of that reality that was not entirely different. He lamented how his first term in Washington had gone, admitted that he didn’t know much about the way the town worked, and that he had to rely on people he could not trust to carry out his wishes. “I now know the game a little better,” he said.
But he also seemed to be aware that there are many people who wonder about some of the words that come out of his mouth. Maybe some of those people were there in that very room. Maybe that’s why he went on a tangent about all the ways he thinks Democrats are screwing things up and then said, “You see, that’s the real threat to democracy — stupid people.”
The businesspeople began to clap.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Rhetoric; Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Voters; Politics

Location: New York; United States--US; Michigan; Detroit Michigan

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Detroit Economic Club; NAICS: 813910

Identifier / keyword: Deportation; Linkedin Corporation; Bush, George W; Courts And The Judiciary; Clinton, Bill; Presidential Election Of 2024; Michigan; Democratic Party; Polls And Public Opinion; Siena College; New York Times/Siena College Poll; New York Times; Immigration And Emigration; Grosse Pointe (Mich); Obama, Barack; Conway, Kellyanne; Impeachment; United States; Newhouse, Neil Stanley (1952 ); Democracy (Theory And Philosophy); Justice Department; Presidential Election Of 2020; Milley, Mark A; Vance, J D; Presidents And Presidency (Us); House Select Committee To Investigate The January 6th Attack; Book Trade And Publishing; United States Politics And Government; Musk, Elon; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Detroit (Mich); Illegal Immigration; Woodward, Bob; United States Defense And Military Forces; Robberies And Thefts; Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Montana; Storming Of The Us Capitol (Jan, 2021); Detroit Economic Club; Trump, Donald J; Carter, Jimmy; Harris, Kamala D; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Special Prosecutors (Independent Counsel); Bozeman (Mont); Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Economy; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Books And Literature

Title: The Trump Voters Who Don’t Believe Trump

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 14, 2024

Dateline: 2024-10-14T22:07:45Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3116443660

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trump-voters-who-don-t-believe/docview/3116443660/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

She Oversees One Really Big Work Force: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/she-oversees-one-really-big-work-force/docview/3115860817/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: More than 30 years into a career that had brought her to California and then Arkansas from her native Canada, Donna Morris could not have chosen a more challenging time to take on the role of chief people officer of Walmart. It was February 2020 -- a couple of weeks before the coronavirus pandemic upended the world and laid bare an uncertain future for both workers and the retail industry.
Walmart perhaps had more reasons than anyone to worry about what the future would bring -- the retailer is the largest private employer in the United States, with 1.6 million employees, representing a work force largely the size of Philadelphia.
"The first thing on our mind was, how do we secure the health and well-being of all of our associates?" Ms. Morris said recently, reflecting on that time. "How do we safeguard the well-being of our associates? And then I will also say: How do we safeguard the well-being of any customer or member that's coming in?"
Walmart has a sprawling employee base that stretches across 4,600 Walmart stores, 600 Sam's Club locations and soon a 350-acre campus being built in Bentonville, Ark., where the company has its headquarters. Its work force includes hourly workers without college degrees who restock store shelves, engineers who previously worked at Silicon Valley tech firms and longtime employees on the corporate track. Longevity at the company is something of a badge of honor -- literally. Workers in Bentonville walk around the company's offices with name tags stating how many years they have been an employee at Walmart.
Thus, Ms. Morris arrived as something of an anomaly among the executive ranks: an outside hire. Roughly 75 percent of the managers at Walmart started as hourly associates. After 17 years at the software provider Adobe, where Ms. Morris rose the ranks within its human resources department to eventually run it, an executive search firm reached out to her in early 2019 to see if she'd be interested in joining Walmart.
Four years into the job, Ms. Morris has overseen wage increases for workers at the company's U.S. stores. Walmart says its average hourly wage has risen about 30 percent over the past five years, to close to $ 18 an hour. That's a similar rate of wage growth for retail workers in the United States overall.
This year, Walmart has focused particularly on retaining store managers: The company announced in January that the average salary of a store manager would increase to $ 128,000 from $ 117,000, and with bonus potential and annual stock grant, pay could be pushed up to around $ 400,000 annually.
Even with these changes, Ms. Morris must contend with criticisms that Walmart still doesn't do enough to protect the safety of its workers and compensate them adequately. Activist groups have in recent years called on the company to evaluate its policies after store workers had been hurt or died while on the job. Walmart has had to deal with a litany of lawsuits related to workers' compensation -- some as recently as this past week.
On Wednesday, the company agreed to pay $ 175,000 to settle three discrimination lawsuits brought by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. In July, Walmart said it would pay $ 2.5 million to settle a class-action wage claim. And in March, Walmart agreed to pay $ 70,000 to settle another discrimination lawsuit brought by the E.E.O.C. A Walmart spokesman declined to comment on the lawsuits.
Ms. Morris sat down with The New York Times recently in Walmart's Hoboken, N.J., office, where she shared the company's hiring strategy, how it navigates the political landscape in Arkansas and why she posted on LinkedIn so frequently. The interview has been edited for space and clarity.
What made you decide to come to Walmart?
I love technology, and I could never see myself working for another tech company. That would have been like cheating to me. I had spent a long time with one software company, and it was like, no way I'm going to go and work for another software company. But the reality is, every company is a tech company. And Walmart was going through this amazing digital transformation.
"I think it's fair to say that a company of our size and scale comes under scrutiny." -- Donna Morris
Who were some of your biggest influences growing up?
My mom because she was always learning new things. She was the type of individual where she was always striving to be better. My dad is just a fun-loving guy. He was kind to everybody. He always wants to make people happy. My dad was all about people and caring for people. I have a wonderful older brother. He's always had the bar high for himself. He influenced me to go to university. He was always like, "Donna, you have to expect more for yourself."
What about when you had started your career?
My first true leadership job, I was a vice president of human resources at a Canadian software company called Accelio, and the C.E.O. of the company had been C.E.O. of Xerox Canada. He was a really strong leader and he would call me Ms. D. He had a very charismatic, very big personality.
He'd be like, "Ms. D, you ready? I need to get some feedback." We'd go to this hamburger spot called Harvey's -- it's a Canada chain -- and we'd sit there over burgers and he would be asking for feedback about the work force and he'd be giving me feedback. I was a young mom at that time, and the only female reporting to him. It was me and the men. Today, there's usually many more women. But he showed empathy and care and belonging before I even knew what the word "belonging" was.
What are your hardest roles to fill?
I would say the absolute hardest to fill will always be leadership roles. We do have a great pipeline internally, but that's always hard too, because if I give it to one person internally and not the other, there's always those ramifications. Leadership roles are always something that we take a lot of time thinking about.
What is your pitch for coming to work in Bentonville?
I always describe Bentonville as your favorite Hallmark movie. We might not be really, really large in terms of size, but we're diverse in terms of access.
Does the current political climate ever factor into these discussions? In 2019, the State of Arkansas passed a law that bans abortion at any time during a pregnancy, unless the woman's life is endangered. And there is a push in the state's legislature to ban critical race theory. What do you say to prospective employees who may be wary of moving to Bentonville.
For Walmart, we are really representing everybody. And we're trying to provide the environment where everyone will feel welcome. I feel very comfortable saying that within Northwest Arkansas, we are striving to ensure that everyone can be their authentic self. But we're not in control of everything that happens. What we can do is make sure that our associates feel like they're supported when they're working for Walmart, and make sure that they're supported if they have medical needs that can't be met where they're at.
And what do you tell prospective employees with children who are worried about the school system?
We are fortunate -- and let me call out the Walton family for doing so many investments in our area -- but we're very fortunate to have charter schools and private schools, and we really do have options for individuals. We strongly encourage associates to spend some time to get to know the schools and make the option that's right for them between public or private.
In the early and mid-2000s -- before your time at the company -- Walmart faced criticism around how it treated workers. Critics said the company paid low wages and Walmart valued profit over people. I'm wondering, how much of your job do you feel is about changing that perception?
I think it's fair to say that a company of our size and scale comes under scrutiny. It's just a reality because people have perceptions of bigger companies. We have strived and really the credit goes to Doug [McMillon]; since he became C.E.O., he has been front and center, focused on our associates.
We want, most importantly, our associates to know that they're valued and that we're investing in them. And we would love for people to know that that's what we do. I would love people to take the time to get to know who Walmart is today and who Walmart is striving to be as we look out into the future and we pay homage in so many ways to our past, including our purpose, which was given to us by Sam Walton. But like anybody's personal history, there's times that you'd say, "Hey, let's not focus on our past, let's focus on our present and our future." And I think our present shows up really well in terms of how we're focused on our associates.
You post a lot on LinkedIn, whether it's about talking to the summer interns or about your latest family vacation. Why do you like it?
I am somebody who's really accessible, and it's really important to me that people know that an any point in time -- good, bad, indifferent -- they can approach me. I think the more that they get to know who I am, the more that they're willing to do that. I'm just a real person trying to work and live my life like everybody else. And so, I like to really share my story so that it might help other people on whatever journey that they're on. It's a great way to get feedback on certain topics. I always check my LinkedIn messages because sometimes associates find you that way. Even though you've got email, they'll find you that way. So I love LinkedIn.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUERIN BLASK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU8.

Subject: Leadership; Schools; Employment discrimination; Feedback; Employees; Litigation; Discount department stores; Wages & salaries; Software industry

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Employment discrimination Employees Discount department stores Wages & salaries Software industry

Location: Arkansas; United States--US; Canada

People: Morris, Donna

Company / organization: Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/05/business/donna-morris-walmart.html

Title: She Oversees One Really Big Work Force:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 13, 2024

column: Corner Office

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3115860817

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/she-oversees-one-really-big-work-force/docview/3115860817/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How to Turn Off the A.I. in Your Tech: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-turn-off-i-your-tech/docview/3114637917/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Google, Microsoft and Meta are shoving A.I. chatbots into our faces. Sometimes, there's a way out.
Big tech brands like Google, Apple, Microsoft and Meta have all unleashed tech that they describe as artificial intelligence. Soon, the companies say, we'll all be using A.I. to write emails, generate images and summarize articles.
But who asked for any of this in the first place?
Judging from the feedback I get from readers of this column, lots of people outside the tech industry remain uninterested in A.I. -- and are increasingly frustrated with how difficult it has become to ignore. The companies rely on user activity to train and improve their A.I. systems, so they are testing this tech inside products we use every day.
Typing a question such as "Is Jay-Z left-handed?" in Google will produce an A.I.-generated summary of the answer on top of the search results. And whenever you use the search tool inside Instagram, you may now be interacting with Meta's chatbot, Meta AI. In addition, when Apple's suite of A.I. tools, Apple Intelligence, arrives on iPhones and other Apple products through software updates this month, the tech will appear inside the buttons we use to edit text and photos.
The proliferation of A.I. in consumer technology has significant implications for our data privacy, because companies are interested in stitching together and analyzing our digital activities, including details inside our photos, messages and web searches, to improve A.I. systems. For users, the tools can simply be an annoyance when they don't work well.
"There's a genuine distrust in this stuff, but other than that, it's a design problem," said Thorin Klosowski, a privacy and security analyst at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights nonprofit, and a former editor at Wirecutter, the reviews site owned by The New York Times. "It's just ugly and in the way."
It helps to know how to opt out. After I contacted Microsoft, Meta, Apple and Google, they offered steps to turn off their A.I. tools or data collection, where possible. I'll walk you through the steps.
Google
Google's highest-profile A.I. product, A.I. Overviews, automatically generates a summary that tries to answer questions you enter into a Google search. The feature had a rocky debut in May -- when, among other snafus, Google's A.I. told users that they could put glue on pizza -- but it has since improved.
Still, the A.I. summaries can be distracting, and there's no way to deactivate them from loading, but you can click a button to filter them out. After typing something like "chocolate chip cookies recipe" into a search bar, click the "Web" tab to see a list of plain search results, just as Google search used to be.
As for search data, users can prevent Google from keeping a record of their web searches by visiting myactivity.google.com and switching off "web and app activity."
Google also has an A.I. chatbot, Gemini, and the setting to prevent it from storing data can be found at myactivity.google.com/product/gemini.
Meta
In April, Meta AI, a chatbot that can look up flights, generate images and whip up recipes, began appearing in the search bar of Meta's apps, including Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. There is currently no way for users to turn off Meta AI, Meta said.
Only in regions with stronger data protection laws, including the European Union and Britain, can people deny Meta access to their personal information to build and train Meta's A.I.
On Instagram, for instance, people living in those places can click on "settings," then "about" and "privacy policy," which will lead to opt-out instructions. Everyone else, including users in the United States, can visit this support page to ask Meta only to delete data used by third parties to develop its A.I.
Microsoft
Microsoft's A.I. chatbot, Copilot, can be activated by clicking a rainbow button built into some products like the Edge browser and Bing search.
The simplest way to avoid the chatbot is not to click on that button. But if you want to remove it from the Edge browser, you can enter edge://settings into the address bar and click "Sidebar," then "App and notification settings" and, finally, "Copilot," where you should toggle off the Copilot setting.
If you want to prevent Copilot from using your data to train the A.I., you have to visit copilot.microsoft.com and go into the privacy menu in the account settings, where you can toggle off an option labeled "Model training."
A bonus tip for users of LinkedIn, Microsoft's social network for professionals: The site recently began using anything posted on its site to train its A.I. system, which could eventually be used to help people find new jobs.
To prevent LinkedIn from using your content, go into the Settings and Privacy tab under your profile, click the "Data privacy" tab and click on "Data for GenAI Improvement." Then toggle the switch off.
(The Times sued Microsoft and its partner OpenAI last year for using copyrighted news articles without permission to train chatbots.)
Apple
Apple's suite of A.I. services, Apple Intelligence, will be released this month in an unfinished state through software updates on some iPhones, iPads and Macs. To use Apple Intelligence, users will have to opt in through a menu labeled "Apple Intelligence & Siri."
Once activated, some of the features will appear inside tools for editing text and photos -- when you edit a photo, for instance, there's a "Clean Up" button to automatically remove photo bombers.
If you change your mind and no longer want to use Apple Intelligence, you can go back into the settings and toggle the Apple Intelligence switch off, which makes the tools go away.
Apple says it has devised a system that protects users privacy, in which data pushed to its servers is inaccessible to Apple. Rather, the company says, it is used exclusively to process a user's request, such as a complex question posed to Siri, before the information is purged from its servers.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B7.

Subject: Software; Artificial intelligence; Privacy; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111, 334220, 513210; Name: Google Inc; NAICS: 334310, 519290

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/09/technology/personaltech/turn-off-ai-overviews-google-meta.html

Title: How to Turn Off the A.I. in Your Tech:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 10, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3114637917

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-turn-off-i-your-tech/docview/3114637917/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Layoffs, Mergers and Ego Clashes, Oh My!: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ocampo, Josh

Publication info: Ocampo, Josh. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-mergers-ego-clashes-oh-my/docview/3111740823/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: To report on the business of media, the journalist Ben Mullin says he is "endlessly curious" about the people populating his own industry.
Times Insider explains who we are and what we do and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
When Ben Mullin was a junior at California State University, Chico, he spent most of his time in the tiny basement of a 40-year-old building, working as an editor on the student newspaper.
Perhaps all of those long hours in the basement left his performance in the classroom a bit lacking. "I was failing my capstone journalism class," said Mr. Mullin, now a reporter on the Business desk of The New York Times. "Our adviser for the student newspaper suggested that I had no business failing the class as an editor for the publication."
To avoid failing, he withdrew from the class and took it again the following semester. Things were looking up: That same semester, he wrote an article for the Poynter Institute about how student newspapers across the country, including his, were struggling financially.
That article was his first to be published in a national publication, and the first of many that would lead to his current beat: the business of media. "I gravitated toward media reporting because I was afraid of what the journalism business might have in store for me," he said.
Mr. Mullin joined The Times in April 2022 from The Wall Street Journal. In his role, he covers the deals, layoffs and power struggles at major companies in news and entertainment.
In an interview, Mr. Mullin discussed the trends he watches, the outlets he reads and why he's almost ready to cut out social media. These are edited excerpts.
When did you decide to become a journalist?
When I was in college, I thought I would go to medical school. But I always loved reading and writing, so I decided to join the student newspaper. It immediately became clear to me that I was way better at talking to people and typing up what they said than I was at deciphering chemical compounds. So I just let nature take its course, so to speak.
How does one of your articles typically begin?
The best stories come from sources who have known you for a long time and feel comfortable talking to you. I ask them what's on their mind, what The Times should focus on and what readers should care about. But stories can come from all over the place -- editors, co-workers, my inbox.
How do you build relationships with sources?
Some of it comes from cold calls. I spend a lot of time on LinkedIn figuring out who seems to be connected to who and what types of information they may have. Underlying all of these relationships is curiosity. I like talking to people; I'm endlessly curious about what motivates them.
What's challenging about your beat?
The media beat tends to be porous, unlike covering national security, for example. Information is less likely to stay concealed for a long period of time, so finding information and making it public as quickly as you can is one challenge.
There are some stories that do stay secret for a really long time. The Business desk recently published a story about the drama behind the Disney succession process. I think one of the reasons some of that stayed secret for so long was because some of that information was closely held by few people.
There are other media stories that are open secrets but are tough to get published, like the Harvey Weinstein accusations, which my colleagues Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey broke. I think many people were peripherally aware that Harvey Weinstein was abusing women. But actually codifying the story and getting it published was another matter. Tapping into those different rungs of information, and figuring out what needs more time to simmer, is a balancing act.
What media trends do you follow?
Streaming is only going to become more important, especially as media executives consider bundling their services. Many stories about the business of media have been driven by the slow and inexorable decline of cable television. Because cable was the best business model to exist in media, a big question is: What's going to replace that? And if it's streaming, will it ever be as profitable as cable once was?
The presidential election is an incredibly important story. Regardless of who wins, it is going to change the scope of the media business because it could change who is in charge of agencies like the F.C.C. and the F.T.C. And I think the future of journalism and whether it's going to remain robust, or be supplanted by nontraditional sources of information, is another really important story.
I've noticed you post a lot on X. Is engaging on social media important to you?
David Carr once said something like, "Twitter isn't waiting to see what I think." I could stand to spend less time on social media, and my reporting would probably be better if I did. We have some of the best journalists in the world -- they are probably not spending all of their time on X.
If you had to give up the media beat, what would you write about?
I love cooking. I'm an amateur baker. One of my favorite things about living in New York is going to all the amazing restaurants here. My dream job is to be a taste tester for The New York Times Cooking team.
In the spirit of your article about sprouts of hope in journalism , what outlets are you reading these days?
I spend a lot of time with most of the biggest news organizations -- The Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, Bloomberg, the Financial Times. I subscribe to Puck. I read Semafor. I read a bunch of newsletters. And then I spend way too much time on social media.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Journalism; Trends; Layoffs; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Weinstein, Harvey; Mullin, Ben

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Wall Street Journal; NAICS: 513110, 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/01/insider/media-layoffs-mergers.html

Title: Layoffs, Mergers and Ego Clashes, Oh My!:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 2, 2024

column: Insider

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Interview

ProQuest document ID: 3111740823

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-mergers-ego-clashes-oh-my/docview/3111740823/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Our Culture of Careerism Is Ruining the College Experience: [Op-Ed]

Author: Glassman, Isab ella

Publication info: Glassman, Isabella. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/our-culture-careerism-is-ruining-college/docview/3110828952/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When I pictured myself in college, I envisioned potluck picnics and late nights listening to Taylor Swift, overanalyzing class crushes. Maybe even joining a Quidditch team.
I never daydreamed about hiding in the library bathroom, crying because I had just been rejected by an undergraduate law journal.
The recently publicized tensions on college campuses, particularly those in the heavily scrutinized Ivy League, are among many forces at play for students today. But there's another that has not yet captivated the news cycle.
It's called pre-professional pressure: a prevailing culture that convinces many of us that only careers in fields such as computer programming, finance and consulting, preferably at blue-chip firms like Goldman Sachs, McKinsey or big tech companies, can secure us worthwhile futures. It is an inescapable part of the current college experience, like tailgating or surviving on stale dining hall food. It not only steers our life choices; it also permeates daily life and negatively affects our mental health.
This pressure is hardly exclusive to Ivy League students. In the 2022-23 academic year, 112,270 students majored in computer science, more than double the number nine years earlier. In the 2021-22 academic year, undergraduate institutions handed out 375,400 business degrees. Unsurprisingly, the number of students pursuing humanities has declined dramatically.
Last year, 315,126 undergraduates applied for the 2,700 available undergraduate intern positions at Goldman Sachs.
Beyond the right major, the not-so-secret formula for the perfect résumé demands participation in a relevant extracurricular activity, which explains the competitive process at some selective schools for joining pre-professional clubs.
The interview process for Cornell's Undergraduate Asia Business Society includes entering a pitch-black lecture hall, having a projector light shone in one's face and yelling responses to questions. Getting into Yale isn't enough: Its investing club turned away 236 applicants in 2022.
Once one snags a spot in a club, it's straight to LinkedIn. Nearly 20 percent of people on the site are between the ages of 18 to 24, making the platform an incubator of young adult FOMO. There, we stress over whether our headshots look too high school (at the age of 18) and race to the coveted over-500-connections designation.
When I doom-scrolled LinkedIn, I wished I was like my classmates, posting about their prestigious internships and gathering validating likes and comments. Unfortunately, I knew my state government internship was a scarlet letter of inadequacy. My classmates seemed to think the world comprised investment bankers, management consultants -- and everyone else.
When I first got to the University of Pennsylvania in August of 2019, it felt like a daily pop quiz, one where I was graded on a language I still struggle to speak.
I heard students say things like: I think I want to work in mergers and acquisitions. Do you have any interest in that? It's very competitive, just so you know. And: Unless it's Goldman or J.P. Morgan, who cares?
I wondered how I missed the memo that I needed to take microeconomics. This fall at Penn there are 672 seats in the course; as of Monday, only four had not been taken. Does everyone like economics that much?
I later learned that according to student lore, if you do well in microeconomics and macroeconomics, then get accepted into one of the selective finance clubs, you have a chance of internally transferring to Penn's Wharton School, the most prestigious undergraduate business school in the country. A Wharton degree, popular superstition has it, is akin to buying a home in the Hamptons and sending your kids to one of the Phillips academies.
Responding to the pressure, I took microeconomics. When I did well on my first midterm, I realized that I could perhaps earn some respect from my peers by winning one of the few transfer spots into Wharton. Then I remembered I had no interest in business.
I wanted to go to law school, so I applied to Penn's Undergraduate Law Journal. During my callback interview, however, I failed to prepare questions for my interviewer, wrongly believing questions would be a nuisance. When I got a rejection email, I was crushed. I felt as if law school was now an impossibility.
It sounds silly -- in hindsight, it was -- but that is how I felt when I was surrounded by thousands of intelligent classmates competing for the same handful of results. I'd wake up at 3:30 a.m. from the recurring nightmare that I didn't land an internship my junior year summer. I heard people, maybe friends, endlessly discussing the "only way" to be successful. I consoled a sobbing roommate after she failed to land the job her parents expected her to get.
There is some economic reality behind the madness.
Real wages have remained moribund since the 1970s, a hard pill to swallow in the face of the last several years of inflation. Today's young adults feel worse off than their parents because their salaries no longer buy a suburban starter home with a picket fence. House prices have outpaced inflation, making homeownership a bigger challenge. Gen Z-ers have more student loans than millennials, and big, corporate salaries seemingly promise a salve for all of one's financial worries.
But what is missing in this race to perceived economic safety is the emotional toll. The number of young adults ages 18 to 25 who have had at least one depressive episode has doubled from 2010 to 2020. Almost two-thirds of college students have reported feeling "overwhelming anxiety" within a given year, and experts have pointed to the cocktail of coursework, pressure to participate in extracurricular activities and concerns over choosing a career as causes.
Naturally, when thousands of students rush into the same handful of majors and professions, supply will exceed demand. That's particularly true now, as openings for postgraduate tech industry jobs advertised on the student job board Handshake decreased about 30 percent this spring from the prior year. Job openings in the financial sector are similarly declining. Consulting firms have cut numbers of new hires and delayed start dates for undergraduates with offers.
Selective colleges and universities can fix this by overhauling their on-campus recruiting systems to prevent finance and consulting firms from pushing students to commit earlier and earlier. No student should have to determine her first career path before junior year begins.
Then there are the parents, who have enormous influence on their children's career choices. Take a deep breath. A kid's first word doesn't need to be "revenue" or his first language Java. It's hard to not want the best for your children -- and not to define it as them starting the next Amazon. But stop and think about what actually makes them happy and keeps them sane, not what you think will keep them safe.
As for me, I was wrong: My failure to get admitted to the law journal in college didn't prevent me from getting into law school. I'm now a second-year law student and a member of my school's law review, and I still cannot confidently define management consulting.
But as soon as this essay is published, feel free to check out my LinkedIn post about it.
Isabella Glassman is a second-year student at Brooklyn Law School. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 2023.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHLOE RONCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page SR10.

Subject: College students; Internships; Young adults; Law schools; Microeconomics; Careers; Consulting firms; Clubs; Extracurricular activities

Business indexing term: Subject: Microeconomics Careers Consulting firms

Company / organization: Name: University of Pennsylvania; NAICS: 611310; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; NAICS: 523150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/24/opinion/college-linkedin-finance-consulting.html

Title: Our Culture of Careerism Is Ruining the College Experience:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 29, 2024

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3110828952

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/our-culture-careerism-is-ruining-college/docview/3110828952/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Effort to Reimagine The Regulation of A.I. By Emphasizing Citizens: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lohr, Steve

Publication info: Lohr, Steve. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/effort-reimagine-regulation-i-emphasizing/docview/3108887977/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A project at Stanford points to the need for institutional innovation, especially in government, to increase the odds that A.I. enhances democracy.
In the late 1780s, shortly after the Industrial Revolution had begun, Alexander Hamilton, James Madison and John Jay wrote a series of 85 spirited essays, collectively known as the Federalist Papers. They argued for ratification of the Constitution and an American system of checks and balances to keep power-hungry "factions" in check.
A new project, orchestrated by Stanford University and published on Tuesday, is inspired by the Federalist Papers and contends that today is a broadly similar historical moment of economic and political upheaval that calls for a rethinking of society's institutional arrangements.
In an introduction to its collection of 12 essays, called the Digitalist Papers, the editors overseeing the project, including Erik Brynjolfsson, director of the Stanford Digital Economy Lab, and Condoleezza Rice, secretary of state in the George W. Bush administration and director of the Hoover Institution, identify their overarching concern.
"A powerful new technology, artificial intelligence," they write, "explodes onto the scene and threatens to transform, for better or worse, all legacy social institutions."
The most common theme in the diverse collection of essays: Citizens need to be more involved in determining how to regulate and incorporate A.I. into their lives. "To build A.I. for the people, with the people," as one essay summed it up.
The project is being published as the technology is racing ahead. A.I. enthusiasts see a future of higher economic growth, increased prosperity and a faster pace of scientific discovery. But the technology is also raising fears of a dystopian alternative -- A.I. chatbots and automated software not only replacing millions of workers, but also generating limitless misinformation and worsening political polarization. How to govern and guide A.I. in the public interest remains an open question.
"Technologists are pushing the A.I. frontier, and that's great," said Mr. Brynjolfsson, who initiated the project. "But there's been no comparable effort given to the institutional innovation needed for this technology to be used less to fuel misinformation and polarization, and more to empower people more broadly."
By now, many governments, nonprofits and universities and even a few companies have recommended A.I. guidelines and guardrails, typically a list of dos and don'ts. The Stanford initiative, subtitled "Artificial Intelligence and Democracy in America," has a different focus, not so much prescriptive solutions as different perspectives on the A.I. threats to democracy and technology's potential to revitalize democratic decision-making.
The project's five editors and 19 essay authors and co-authors span different disciplines and outlooks -- economists, political scientists and technologists, liberals and conservatives. Two pillars of the Silicon Valley establishment were invited to contribute essays: Reid Hoffman, co-founder of LinkedIn and a venture capitalist, and Eric Schmidt, former chief executive of Google.
Support in funding and staff time for the Digitalist Papers came from Stanford and the Project Liberty Institute, a nonprofit focused on fostering a more human-centered internet.
Most of the Stanford project's authors share a concern that the economic power of the big tech companies will increasingly result in political power. The essays also look at how to let citizens and consumers, rather than lobbyists and big tech companies, shape A.I. policy.
"The potential for democratic innovation is there, but the current political economy, shaped by moneyed interests and polarization, does not allow change," said Lawrence Lessig, a professor at Harvard Law School.
One potential avenue to address the problem is what he calls "protected democratic deliberation" -- where some issues can be debated and moved along outside the legacy political process.
Mr. Lessig points to the work of "citizen assemblies" in Ireland. Same-sex marriage and abortion were politically off-limits for the Irish Parliament, given the influence of the Roman Catholic Church. Citizen assemblies were freer to debate those issues. They came up with positions that the public overwhelmingly ratified in referendums to legalize same-sex marriage and abortion.
Taiwan is cited repeatedly in the essays as a leader in the practice of digitally enabled outreach to citizens to solicit their views on a range of subjects.
The issues tackled by citizens there have included the rules for admitting Uber to compete with local taxi companies and setting priorities to shape A.I. policy.
Taiwan uses what it calls "alignment assemblies," soliciting the ideas and views of thousands of randomly selected citizens. One such assembly on misinformation online this year helped influence anti-fraud legislation that includes stronger reporting and disclosure requirements for big tech social networks.
A key to Taiwan's success, said Saffron Huang, co-founder of the Collective Intelligence Project, which has worked with the Taiwanese government, is that the citizen views have repeatedly been translated into policy actions, which has built trust in the process.
Audrey Tang, Taiwan's founding digital minister, said the online forums could be "a very effective way for citizens to contribute to the agenda and guide the trajectory of technology policy instead of the brakes and pedals of traditional regulation."
The conservative contributors to the project also see a strong ecosystem of civic and other independent institutions -- like those in Taiwan -- as crucial counterweights to the rising power of the big tech companies. But they regard them as players in a marketplace for ideas best left free of most government controls.
"It is A.I. regulation, not A.I., that threatens democracy," writes John H. Cochrane, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.
The main danger, Mr. Cochrane said, is having a government or corporate bureaucracy decide what is and is not appropriate speech. "We're talking about censorship," he said.
Regulation, Mr. Cochrane said, should come after abuses become clear instead of pre-emptively setting rules. Who in 2004, when Facebook was founded, could have predicted the problems coming with social networks harming teenage girls in particular?
"It's a process of constant learning and reform," Mr. Cochrane said. "Bit by bit, in a contentious democracy, that's how we figure out what to do."
After the publication of the project, its organizers, including Ms. Rice and Mr. Brynjolfsson, plan to meet with policymakers and make presentations. Their goal, they say, is to encourage analysis and debate, and begin to build a case for optimism.
"We can build new systems of governance and guide technological development with an eye toward supporting and even enhancing democratic principles, rather than undermining them," the editors wrote.
Photograph Condoleezza Rice is one of the editors of the Digitalist Papers, inspired by the Federalist Papers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH YENESEL/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK); Audrey Tang, Taiwan's founding digital minister, says that citizens' views have often led to action. (PHOTOGRAPH BY I-HWA CHENG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Federalism; Artificial intelligence; Same sex marriage; Politics; Debates; Social networks; Essays; False information; Political power; Abortion; Democracy

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Social networks

Location: Taiwan

People: Rice, Condoleezza; Tang, Audrey

Company / organization: Name: Hoover Institution on War Revolution & Peace; NAICS: 541720; Name: Stanford University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/24/business/ai-democracy-government.html

Title: An Effort to Reimagine The Regulation of A.I. By Emphasizing Citizens:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 25, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3108887977

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/effort-reimagine-regulation-i-emphasizing/docview/3108887977/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside Musk's Security Bubble, Designed to Stop the 'Maniacs': [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Grind, Kirsten; Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Grind, Kirsten; Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-musks-security-bubble-designed-stop/docview/3108459914/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The day before Elon Musk spoke at a celebration for Tesla's futuristic Cybertruck pickup in November, a Florida man, Paul Overeem, was arrested near the company's Austin, Texas, factory and accused by the authorities of planning a "mass casualty event" there.
The incident later made headlines. What went less noticed is what happened at Tesla's event, which went ahead at the Austin factory.
Security had been alerted to Mr. Overeem's threats and was fully activated, according to two people with knowledge of the arrangements and documents viewed by The New York Times. The list of invitees was carefully curated, with each person screened well ahead of time. More than three dozen Tesla security officials were then stationed throughout the room when Mr. Musk, who runs the carmaker, took the stage. He also had bodyguards from his private security firm, Foundation Security, on hand.
Mr. Musk, 53, has long cultivated a devil-may-care persona, traveling the world, hanging out with moguls, world leaders and celebrities, and smoking weed in public. But in private, he has increasingly barricaded himself behind a growing phalanx of armed bodyguards as he has become more wealthy, more famous and more outspoken -- and as the threats against him have evolved.
The world's richest man, with a net worth of more than $ 240 billion, he once fielded largely harmless calls and messages from ardent fans but now regularly deals with stalkers and death threats, according to police documents and internal Tesla records. While many high-profile people face threats, Mr. Musk has transformed his own protection in recent years to deal with the change, expanding an already robust personal security beyond that of other billionaires.
Mr. Musk and his companies Tesla and SpaceX have paid millions of dollars a year for his security, including to the security company Gavin de Becker & Associates and others, according to internal Tesla documents. To control his protection further, Mr. Musk started Foundation Security, according to the documents and security experts.
His security team now operates like a mini-Secret Service, and he is guarded more like a head of state than a business executive, security experts said. Mr. Musk, who was once flanked by two bodyguards, travels with as many as 20 security professionals who show up to research escape routes or to clear a room before he enters. They often carry guns and have a medical professional in tow for Mr. Musk, who has been code-named "Voyager" by his security team.
The threats to his safety have led Mr. Musk to become more fearful and his lifestyle more isolated, three people close to him said. He is rarely without bodyguards -- even when he went to the bathroom at X, his social media company -- according to a 2023 lawsuit filed by former employees over severance pay. At times, he has overstated the severity of threats, including once inaccurately saying two people indicted in separate incidents had carried guns.
At Tesla's annual shareholder meeting in June, Mr. Musk said he thought the threats against him were getting crazier.
"The probability that a homicidal maniac will try to kill you is proportionate to how many homicidal maniacs hear your name," he said. "So they hear my name a lot -- I'm like, 'OK, I'm on the list,' you know." He added that this had forced him to be more standoffish to the public.
The way Mr. Musk lives now is different from others who are ultrawealthy. Warren E. Buffett, who is worth more than $ 145 billion, employed just one personal bodyguard for many years. (It is unclear how many bodyguards he has now; his spokeswoman said Berkshire Hathaway, Mr. Buffett's company, used several security firms.) Mr. Musk's predecessor at X, Jack Dorsey, often walked miles across San Francisco with no bodyguard.
This year, Tesla disclosed in filings for the first time that it paid $ 2.4 million for a portion of Mr. Musk's protection in 2023. It paid $ 500,000 in the first two months of 2024, more than five times the average spent every two months in 2019, according to Tesla documents. From 2015 to 2018, Mr. Musk spent an average $ 145,000 a month on security, according to invoices and receipts viewed by The Times.
In contrast, Apple spent $ 820,000 last year to protect its chief executive, Tim Cook, while Amazon shells out $ 1.6 million a year to guard its founder, Jeff Bezos. One of the few companies to spend more is Meta, which allocated $ 23.4 million last year to the security of its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, filings show.
The Times compiled details of Mr. Musk's security, which have not previously been reported, from hundreds of pages of Tesla documents, police and local government documents obtained through public records requests, state records of Mr. Musk's security company, audio recordings, court documents, and Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Times did not include details of Mr. Musk's locations.
The Tesla documents were from a trove of records and data obtained by Handelsblatt, a German newspaper, from Lukasz Krupski, a former Tesla employee. The people close to Mr. Musk spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to risk their jobs or relationships with him and Tesla.
Mr. Musk, his lawyer and representatives for Tesla and SpaceX did not respond to requests for comment.
Running Musk's Errands
Mr. Musk once operated informally, leaving his keys in his car and walking away, and did not want bodyguards, people close to him said. But as his profile rose, Tesla's board required him to take on personal security, according to some of the people and documents viewed by The Times.
By 2014, Mr. Musk had bodyguards from Gavin de Becker & Associates, a company run by Gavin de Becker, who parlayed a job as Elizabeth Taylor's assistant and work for the Department of Justice into a career protecting celebrities and investigating targets for high-end clients. The firm's customers have included Mr. Bezos and Cher.
When Mr. Musk traveled for work, a rotating cast of bodyguards from GDBA, most of whom had military experience, accompanied him wherever he went.
The price for such services often reached six figures a month. In January 2016, when Mr. Musk visited Mexico, Hong Kong, London, Paris, Israel and Texas, Mr. de Becker's bill was $ 163,674.59, according to the documents. The cost was split among SpaceX, Tesla and Mr. Musk.
Bodyguards often ran errands for Mr. Musk and paid his expenses to minimize the time he spent in public. They washed his car, picked up his dry cleaning and once tipped a bartender $ 80 in London for keeping the bar open after hours. They also bought sombreros and fireworks for a 2015 New Year's Eve celebration in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, and paid a hotel bill of $ 22,445.72 for Mr. Musk's family and staff at a luxury hotel in Hong Kong in January 2016.
GDBA's staff also helped Mr. Musk with "threat assessments" at a cost of more than $ 400 an hour for a senior consultant, as well as researching people classified as "inappropriate pursuers," according to the documents.
The firm also targeted someone who avoided Mr. Musk: Stu Grossman, who owned the tesla.com internet address years ago. Mr. Grossman, a senior engineer at a networking company, had acquired the domain name before Tesla was founded. Mr. Musk wanted to buy it, but Mr. Grossman was in no hurry to sell.
In 2015, Mr. Grossman said, he was visited twice at his San Francisco home and once outside a restaurant by private investigators who said they worked for Mr. Musk.
"Elon would like you to know that he would like to hear from you," the investigator outside the restaurant said, according to Mr. Grossman. He eventually agreed to sell tesla.com to the company for an undisclosed price.
'Nice Knowin Ya'
Many people trying to reach Mr. Musk were innocuous, documents and recordings of phone calls obtained by The Times show. One woman left a two-minute voice mail several years ago at one of Mr. Musk's companies, referring to him as "Daddy Musk" and claiming they had spoken telepathically for the last year.
"I can't wait for you to propose to me in outer space on our station," she said.
By 2022, Mr. Musk was worth over $ 200 billion. His fame had soared as Tesla dominated the market for electric vehicles and SpaceX ferried astronauts into space for NASA. That fueled his security concerns, three people close to him said.
He received international threats, including one he posted on X that spring from Dmitry Rogozin, a Russian government official. Mr. Rogozin warned Mr. Musk that "you will be held accountable" for helping Ukraine's military with his Starlink satellite internet service in the war with Russia, according to Mr. Musk's posts.
"If I die under mysterious circumstances, it's been nice knowin ya," Mr. Musk later posted.
In October 2022, Mr. Musk bought Twitter -- later renamed X -- thrusting him further into the spotlight. That December, he suspended the account of a university student who tracked his private jet, along with more than 24 other accounts, claiming they were "basically assassination coordinates." He later reinstated some of the accounts.
Mr. Musk moved to take security operations into his own hands. In 2016, Jared Birchall, who manages Mr. Musk's family office, registered Foundation Security in California. The company appeared to be a clearinghouse for Mr. Musk's security payments, with Mr. de Becker's firm running operations, documents show. It was dissolved in February 2022.
Mr. Musk's private foundation also registered a Foundation Security in Texas, though it is unclear when the registration happened. The company was described as a "private business with internal security staff," according to documents filed with the state. (Mr. Musk is a fan of the "Foundation" science fiction novels by Isaac Asimov.)
Foundation Security is run partly by Justin Riblet, a former Army special forces weapons sergeant, who previously worked for GDBA, according to the documents and Mr. Riblet's LinkedIn page. He declined to comment.
Tesla this year reported for the first time that it had entered into an agreement with a security company owned by Mr. Musk "to provide security services concerning him." It did not name the company. It is unclear why Tesla did not report the expenditures earlier, since public companies are required to disclose most business relationships with entities owned by their top executives.
Tesla has its own security operations, including an intelligence unit for investigations and the ability to fly drones over facilities and events, two people familiar with the company said.
The growing security has limited Mr. Musk's movements. At Burning Man, the annual outdoor Nevada art and music festival, he mostly stays close to his camp, two people with knowledge of the event said. At parties, bodyguards sweep the area ahead of time and look for anyone not on an approved list.
Danger Level
Threats against Mr. Musk appear to be rising. Since Tesla opened its Austin factory in early 2022, the Travis County Sheriff's Office has responded to eight "terroristic threat" incidents there, with at least two aimed directly at Mr. Musk, records show.
In contrast, the police responded to five terroristic threat incidents over the last decade at Tesla's factory in Fremont, Calif., according to police records.
Mr. Overeem, who was arrested in Austin in November before reaching Tesla's factory, had posted threatening messages in an Instagram group chat about the Cybertruck event where Mr. Musk would speak, according to Travis County court documents.
"If I'm saying I'm gonna kill people then you should take this seriously," he wrote in one message, according to the documents.
Mr. Musk's and Tesla's security took the threat seriously and addressed it when planning the Cybertruck event, two people said. Tesla also alerted law enforcement, the court documents show.
A grand jury has indicted Mr. Overeem on a felony charge of making a terroristic threat. He is out on $ 200,000 bail, with his bail conditions requiring him to stay 200 yards away from Mr. Musk and Shivon Zilis, an executive at Neuralink, one of Mr. Musk's companies. Ms. Zilis is also the mother of some of Mr. Musk's children.
In a separate incident in January, Justin McCauley, 32, a former Tesla employee, posted on X: "@JoeBiden @X @Tesla @Elonmusk, I am planning to Kill all of you."
Mr. McCauley's wife, who was in Minnesota, called the police after he told her that he was going to Texas and never returning, records show. The Travis County Sheriff's Office tracked Mr. McCauley's truck and arrested him in January near Tesla's Austin factory. He was indicted by a grand jury on a charge of making a terroristic threat and released on bail.
Rick Cofer, a lawyer who represents Mr. Overeem and Mr. McCauley, said that he wasn't authorized to speak about the cases but that behavior that is typically categorized as criminal or threatening "can often be traced back to untreated mental health symptoms."
In an apparent reference to these incidents, Mr. Musk posted on X in July, after the assassination attempt on former President Donald J. Trump.
"Dangerous times ahead," he wrote. "Two people (separate occasions) have already tried to kill me in the past 8 months." He said both had guns, though court documents show that neither Mr. Overeem nor Mr. McCauley was arrested with any weapons.
Ryan Mac, Kate Conger and Kate Kelly contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Ryan Mac, Kate Conger and Kate Kelly contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN WALSH/AP; AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Tesla's factory in Fremont, Calif., where five terroristic threat incidents have occurred in the last decade. A plant in Austin, Texas, has had eight since 2022. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Elon Musk in Bali, Indonesia, in May. Tesla disclosed that it paid $ 2.4 million toward his protection in 2023, and $ 500,000 in the first two months of 2024. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MADE NAGI/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Celebrities; Mass casualty incidents; Personal profiles; Bodyguards

Location: China; Mexico; Texas; United States--US; Hong Kong China; San Francisco California

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/13/technology/elon-musk-security.html

Title: Inside Musk's Security Bubble, Designed to Stop the 'Maniacs':   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3108459914

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-musks-security-bubble-designed-stop/docview/3108459914/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside Elon Musk’s Mushrooming Security Apparatus

Author: Grind, Kirsten; Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Grind, Kirsten; Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-elon-musk-s-mushrooming-security-apparatus/docview/3108427969/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The day before Elon Musk spoke at a celebration for Tesla’s futuristic Cybertruck pickup in November, a Florida man, Paul Overeem, was arrested near the company’s Austin, Texas, factory and accused by authorities of planning a “mass casualty event” there.
The incident later made headlines. What went less noticed is what happened at Tesla’s event, which went ahead at the Austin factory.
Security had been alerted to Overeem’s threats and was fully activated, according to two people with knowledge of the arrangements and documents viewed by The New York Times. The list of invitees was carefully curated, with each person screened well ahead of time. More than three dozen Tesla security officials were then stationed throughout the room when Musk, who runs the carmaker, took the stage. He also had bodyguards from his private security firm, Foundation Security, on hand.
Musk, 53, has long cultivated a devil-may-care persona, traveling the world; hanging out with moguls, world leaders and celebrities; and smoking weed in public. But in private, he has increasingly barricaded himself behind a growing phalanx of armed bodyguards as he has become more wealthy, more famous and more outspoken — and as the threats against him have evolved.
The world’s richest man, with a net worth of more than $240 billion, he once fielded largely harmless calls and messages from ardent fans but now regularly deals with stalkers and death threats, according to police documents and internal Tesla records. While many high-profile people face threats, Musk has transformed his own protection in recent years to deal with the change, expanding an already robust personal security beyond that of other billionaires.
Musk and his companies Tesla and SpaceX have paid millions of dollars a year for his security, including to the security company Gavin de Becker & Associates and others, according to internal Tesla documents. To control his protection further, Musk started Foundation Security, according to the documents and security experts.
His security team now operates like a mini-Secret Service, and he is guarded more like a head of state than a business executive, security experts said. Musk, who was once flanked by two bodyguards, travels with as many as 20 security professionals who show up to research escape routes or to clear a room before he enters. They often carry guns and have a medical professional in tow for Musk, who has been code-named “Voyager” by his security team.
The threats to his safety have led Musk to become more fearful and his lifestyle more isolated, three people close to him said. He is rarely without bodyguards — even when he went to the bathroom at X, his social media company, according to a 2023 lawsuit filed by former employees over severance pay. At times, he has overstated the severity of threats, including once inaccurately saying two people indicted in separate incidents had carried guns.
At Tesla’s annual shareholder meeting in June, Musk said he thought the threats against him were getting crazier.
“The probability that a homicidal maniac will try to kill you is proportionate to how many homicidal maniacs hear your name,” he said. “So they hear my name a lot; I’m like, ‘OK, I’m on the list,’ you know.” He added that this had forced him to be more standoffish to the public.
The way Musk lives now is different from others who are ultrawealthy. Warren Buffett, who is worth more than $145 billion, employed just one personal bodyguard for many years. (It is unclear how many bodyguards he has now; his spokesperson said Berkshire Hathaway, Buffett’s company, used several security firms.) Musk’s predecessor at X, Jack Dorsey, often walked miles across San Francisco with no bodyguard.
This year, Tesla disclosed in filings for the first time that it paid $2.4 million for a portion of Musk’s protection in 2023. It paid $500,000 in the first two months of 2024, more than five times the average spent every two months in 2019, according to Tesla documents. From 2015 to 2018, Musk spent an average of $145,000 a month on security, according to invoices and receipts viewed by the Times.
In contrast, Apple spent $820,000 last year to protect its CEO, Tim Cook, while Amazon shells out $1.6 million a year to guard its founder, Jeff Bezos. One of the few companies to spend more is Meta, which allocated $23.4 million last year to the security of its CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, filings show.
The Times compiled details of Musk’s security, which have not previously been reported, from hundreds of pages of Tesla documents, police and local government documents obtained through public records requests, state records of Musk’s security company, audio recordings, court documents and Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Times did not include details of Musk’s locations.
The Tesla documents were from a trove of records and data obtained by Handelsblatt, a German newspaper, from Lukasz Krupski, a former Tesla employee. The people close to Musk spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to risk their jobs or relationships with him and Tesla.
Musk, his lawyer and representatives for Tesla and SpaceX did not return requests for comment.
Running Musk’s Errands
Musk once operated informally, leaving his keys in his car and walking away, and did not want bodyguards, people close to him said. But as his profile rose, Tesla’s board required him to take on personal security, according to some of the people and documents viewed by the Times.
By 2014, Musk had bodyguards from Gavin de Becker & Associates, a company run by Gavin de Becker, who parlayed a job as Elizabeth Taylor’s assistant and work for the Department of Justice into a career protecting celebrities and investigating targets for high-end clients. The firm’s customers have included Bezos and Cher.
When Musk traveled for work, a rotating cast of bodyguards from GDBA, most of whom had military experience, accompanied him wherever he went.
The price for such services often reached six figures a month. In January 2016, when Musk visited Mexico, Hong Kong, London, Paris, Israel and Texas, de Becker’s bill was $163,674.59, according to the documents. The cost was split among SpaceX, Tesla and Musk.
Bodyguards often ran errands for Musk and paid his expenses to minimize the time he spent in public. They washed his car, picked up his dry cleaning and once tipped a bartender $80 in London for keeping the bar open after hours. They also bought sombreros and fireworks for a 2015 New Year’s Eve celebration in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, and paid a hotel bill of $22,445.72 for Musk’s family and staff at a luxury hotel in Hong Kong in January 2016.
GDBA’s staff also helped Musk with “threat assessments” at a cost of more than $400 an hour for a senior consultant, as well as researching people classified as “inappropriate pursuers,” according to the documents.
The firm also targeted someone who avoided Musk: Stu Grossman, who owned the tesla.com internet address years ago. Grossman, a senior engineer at a networking company, had acquired the domain name before Tesla was founded. Musk wanted to buy it, but Grossman was in no hurry to sell.
In 2015, Grossman said, he was visited twice at his San Francisco home and once outside a restaurant by private investigators who said they worked for Musk.
“Elon would like you to know that he would like to hear from you,” the investigator outside the restaurant said, according to Grossman. He eventually agreed to sell tesla.com to the company for an undisclosed price.
‘Nice Knowin Ya’
Many people trying to reach Musk were innocuous, documents and recordings of phone calls obtained by the Times show. One woman left a two-minute voicemail several years ago at one of Musk’s companies, referring to him as “Daddy Musk” and claiming they had spoken telepathically for the last year.
“I can’t wait for you to propose to me in outer space on our station,” she said.
By 2022, Musk was worth more than $200 billion. His fame had soared as Tesla dominated the market for electric vehicles and SpaceX ferried astronauts into space for NASA. That fueled his security concerns, three people close to him said.
He received international threats, including one he posted on X that spring from Dmitry Rogozin, a Russian government official. Rogozin warned Musk that “you will be held accountable” for helping Ukraine’s military with his Starlink satellite internet service in the war with Russia, according to Musk’s posts.
“If I die under mysterious circumstances, it’s been nice knowin ya,” Musk later posted.
In October 2022, Musk bought Twitter — later renamed X — thrusting him further into the spotlight. That December, he suspended the account of a university student who tracked his private jet, along with more than 24 other accounts, claiming they were “basically assassination coordinates.” He later reinstated some of the accounts.
Musk moved to take security operations into his own hands. In 2016, Jared Birchall, who manages Musk’s family office, registered Foundation Security in California. The company appeared to be a clearinghouse for Musk’s security payments, with de Becker’s firm running operations, documents show. It was dissolved in February 2022.
Musk’s private foundation also registered a Foundation Security in Texas, though it is unclear when the registration happened. The company was described as a “private business with internal security staff,” according to documents filed with the state. (Musk is a fan of the “Foundation” science fiction novels by Isaac Asimov.)
Foundation Security is run partly by Justin Riblet, a former Army special forces weapons sergeant, who previously worked for GDBA, according to the documents and Riblet’s LinkedIn page. He declined to comment.
Tesla this year reported for the first time that it had entered into an agreement with a security company owned by Musk “to provide security services concerning him.” It did not name the company. It is unclear why Tesla did not report the expenditures earlier, since public companies are required to disclose most business relationships with entities owned by their top executives.
Tesla has its own security operations, including an intelligence unit for investigations and the ability to fly drones over facilities and events, two people familiar with the company said.
The growing security has limited Musk’s movements. At Burning Man, the annual outdoor Nevada art and music festival, he mostly stays close to his camp, two people with knowledge of the event said. At parties, bodyguards sweep the area ahead of time and look for anyone not on an approved list.
Danger Level
Threats against Musk appear to be rising. Since Tesla opened its Austin factory in early 2022, the Travis County Sheriff’s Office has responded to eight “terroristic threat” incidents there, with at least two aimed directly at Musk, records show.
In contrast, police responded to five terroristic threat incidents over the last decade at Tesla’s factory in Fremont, California, according to police records.
Overeem, who was arrested in Austin in November before reaching Tesla’s factory, had posted threatening messages in an Instagram group chat about the Cybertruck event where Musk would speak, according to Travis County court documents.
“If I’m saying I’m gonna kill people then you should take this seriously,” he wrote in one message, according to the documents.
Musk’s and Tesla’s security took the threat seriously and addressed it when planning the Cybertruck event, two people said. Tesla also alerted law enforcement, the court documents show.
A grand jury has indicted Overeem on a felony charge of making a terroristic threat. He is out on $200,000 bail, with his bail conditions requiring him to stay 200 yards away from Musk and Shivon Zilis, an executive at Neuralink, one of Musk’s companies. Zilis is also the mother of some of Musk’s children.
In a separate incident in January, Justin McCauley, 32, a former Tesla employee, posted on X, “@JoeBiden @X @Tesla @Elonmusk, I am planning to Kill all of you.”
McCauley’s wife, who was in Minnesota, called police after he told her that he was going to Texas and never returning, records show. The Travis County Sheriff’s Office tracked McCauley’s truck and arrested him in January near Tesla’s Austin factory. He was indicted by a grand jury on a charge of making a terroristic threat and released on bail.
Rick Cofer, a lawyer who represents Overeem and McCauley, said that he wasn’t authorized to speak about the cases but that behavior that is typically categorized as criminal or threatening “can often be traced back to untreated mental health symptoms.”
In an apparent reference to these incidents, Musk posted on X in July, after the assassination attempt on former President Donald Trump.
“Dangerous times ahead,” he wrote. “Two people (separate occasions) have already tried to kill me in the past 8 months.” He said both had guns, though court documents show that neither Overeem nor McCauley was arrested with any weapons.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Celebrities; Personal profiles; Bodyguards; Mass casualty incidents

Location: Mexico; Texas; New York; United States--US; China; Hong Kong China; San Francisco California

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

Identifier / keyword: Privacy; Minnesota; Starlink Satellite Constellation (Spacex); Neuralink Corp; Security And Warning Systems; Assassinations And Attempted Assassinations; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Computer Security; Krupski, Lukasz; Cook, Timothy D; Florida; Taylor, Elizabeth (1932 2011); Science Fiction; Tesla Motors Inc; Ukraine; Private Sp aceflight; Linkedin Corporation; Nevada; Relocation Of Business; Dry Cleaning; Justice Department; Israel; Festivals; New Year; Asimov, Isaac; Politics And Government; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Automobiles; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Classified Information And State Secrets; Bezos, Jeffrey P; Fremont (Calif); Zilis, Shivon; Rogozin, Dmitri O; Apple Inc; Police; Germany; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Handelsblatt; Customer Relations; Threats And Threatening Messages; Business Travel; X (Formerly Twitter); Cyberharassment; Texas; Wages And Salaries; Buffett, Warren E; AmazonCom Inc; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Taylor, Elizabeth (1912 75); Wiretapping And Other Eavesdropping Devices And Methods; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Law And Legislation; International Relations; Writing And Writers; Nevada County (Calif); Amnesties, Commutations And Pardons; Workplace Environment; Domain Names (Internet); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Drones (Pilotless Planes); San Francisco (C alif); Factories And Manufacturing; Secret Service; Real Estate (Commercial); Space And Astronomy; Travis County (Tex); Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Labor And Jobs; Mexico; Securities And Exchange Commission; Russia; Television; Meta Platforms Inc; Trump, Donald J; Voyager Project; Missing Persons; Travel And Vacations; High Net Worth Individuals; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Austin (Tex); Dorsey, Jack; Names, Organizational; National Aeronautics And Space Administration; Business; Puerto Vallarta (Mexico); Stalking (Crime); Errands; New York Times; De Becker, Gavin; Whistle Blowers; Hong Kong; Luxury Goods And Services; Ewing, Jack; Names, Personal; Books And Literature; Trident Mortgage Co

Title: Inside Elon Musk’s Mushrooming Security Apparatus

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 23, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-23T22:38:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3108427969

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-elon-musk-s-mushrooming-security-apparatus/docview/3108427969/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Female Entrepreneurs Hitting a Funding Wall: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Gallogly, Nell

Publication info: Gallogly, Nell. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/female-entrepreneurs-hitting-funding-wall/docview/3107859065/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For women starting new businesses, early funding from venture capital firms led by other women is vital. But few are large enough to lead subsequent rounds of financing.
When Oriana Papin-Zoghbi was looking for venture capital funding to develop a new type of test for ovarian cancer, she found her pitch did best with women investors. "They were able to resonate with the problem we are trying to solve," she said.
Avestria Ventures, a fund focused on women-founded start-ups, led an early investment of $ 5 million in Ms. Papin-Zoghbi's company, AOA Dx. And two years later, Good Growth Capital, a firm founded by women, led an additional $ 17 million investment.
Ms. Papin-Zoghbi expects raising the next round of funding to be more difficult. Medical devices are expensive to develop, and AOA Dx is looking for an additional $ 30 million to bring its first product to market. "Most women-led funds cannot lead a round that size," she said.
More than 100 women-led venture capital funds, many specifically focused on investing in companies started by women, have been founded in the last decade, a trend that has contributed to a gain in fund-raising by women who are just starting their businesses. Female-founded start-ups received 7 percent of pre-seed and seed funding, the earliest funding a start-up raises, in 2023, up from 5 percent in 2015, according to the data platform Crunchbase.
But women-led funds tend to be small, limiting their influence to early funding rounds. More mature companies led by women have not seen the same increase in funding. For women-founded businesses seeking investments past a Series B round, typically the third funding round, the share of venture capital dollars contracted to 1 percent from 2 percent over the same period, according to Crunchbase.
Founders like Ms. Papin-Zoghbi are hitting -- or fear hitting -- a funding wall, an obstacle they say has been heightened by a rollback in diversity, equity and inclusion efforts and a general downturn in start-up investing.
"There are so few female-led companies that are actually making it beyond series B," said Amy Divaraniya, a co-founder of the fertility start-up Oova. Women investors led Oova's first two rounds of funding, but Ms. Divaraniya doesn't anticipate that such investors will be able to play the same role for her next fund-raising effort. "That keeps me up at night," she said.
Jenny Abramson, the founder of the venture capital firm Rethink Impact, refers to the dearth of funding for women-led start-ups at the growth stage as "the valley of death."
Rethink Impact is one of the few women-led firms with the deep pockets required to be effective in later stage funding rounds. It has raised more than $ 500 million, making it the largest venture capital fund focused on investing in women-led companies.
In 2023, the average size of women-led venture funds was $ 41 million, compared with $ 244 million for all venture funds, according to The Venture Capital Journal, an industry publication.
"Women-led fund sizes are smaller, so their check sizes are smaller," said Angela Lee, a professor at Columbia Business School and the founder of 37 Angels, a network that connects women founders with women investors. "They aren't moving the needle in terms of dollars."
Those already relatively small funds have been hit by a broader downturn in start-up investing. Venture capital firms across the board are struggling to raise new funds from their limited partners, with the number of new funds created in 2024 on track to be the lowest since 2015, according to the database Pitchbook.
At the same time, firms focused on investing in women are contending with a backlash to D.E.I. investments. In June, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit halted a competition by the venture capital firm Fearless Fund, which offered grants to businesses owned by Black women. The court ruled that the grant most likely constituted unlawful racial discrimination.
Ciara Imani May, the chief executive of Rebundle, a sustainable hair braiding company, says the marketwide retreat from D.E.I. efforts has "decreased funding for Black women founders" like her. After raising $ 1.4 million in seed funding in 2021, including from diversity-focused investors, she struggled to raise additional venture money and has since sought other funding sources, including debt funding.
"I have chatted with many fund mangers who have some focus on diversity, and they're tweaking the language on their publicly facing content to prevent the possibility of a lawsuit or backlash," said Ms. Lee, the Columbia professor.
That's been the case for Karen Cahn, founder of IFundWomen, a crowdfunding platform for women entrepreneurs. "IFundWomen has to rebrand, or we will die," Ms. Cahn wrote in a post on LinkedIn. "The word 'WOMEN' in our name deters corporations from partnering with us," she wrote.
Not all big investors are pulling back from women-led start-ups. Erin Harkless Moore, who leads for-profit investing at Pivotal Ventures, the organization started by Melinda French Gates to advance gender equality and social progress, said that it planned to expand its investments in women-led funds and businesses. "We're at a party where some folks have left, but we know the party's not over," Ms. Moore said. "It's just getting started."
But some question whether more women check-writers would be enough to bridge the "valley of death." A study conducted by researchers at INSEAD, the French business school, found that exclusive backing from female investors may inadvertently signal to other investors that a start-up is being funded based on a founder's gender rather than on merit, making it harder for its founders to raise additional money.
The study's authors warn that women entrepreneurs should be aware of potential biases from future funders and, if possible, seek financing for their first round from mixed-gender investors. "As a woman, don't just approach women," said Kaisa Snellman, a co-author of the INSEAD study.
Venture capital firms led by men have a responsibility to support women founders and address bias, she said, adding, "It shouldn't just be up to the women investors to even the playing field."
Photograph Oriana Papin-Zoghbi has secured more than $ 22 million in venture capital funding but knows it will be difficult raising what she needs. (PHOTOGRPAH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Fund raising; Venture capital companies; Females; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Black people; Startups; Funding; Investors; Gender; Entrepreneurial finance

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital companies Startups Entrepreneurial finance

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/21/business/women-entrepreneurs-are-hitting-a-funding-wall.html

Title: Female Entrepreneurs Hitting a Funding Wall:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 23, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3107859065

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/female-entrepreneurs-hitting-funding-wall/docview/3107859065/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Flurry of City Work for Adams Aide's Old Firm: [National Desk]

Author: Harris, Amy Julia; Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Pallaro, Bianca

Publication info: Harris, Amy Julia; Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Pallaro, Bianca. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/flurry-city-work-adams-aides-old-firm/docview/3107341973/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The company received a $ 154 million contract to provide "emergency fire watch services" to the New York City Housing Authority. The firm was once owned by the deputy mayor for public safety.
Before Philip B. Banks III was named deputy mayor for public safety for New York City, the security company he once owned rarely did business with the city.
But two years after Mayor Eric Adams appointed Mr. Banks to the high-ranking post in his administration, the company Mr. Banks said he had sold years earlier began receiving city business worth millions of dollars, according to records reviewed by The New York Times.
The firm, City Safe Partners, received a $ 154 million contract from the New York City Housing Authority in January 2024 to provide "emergency fire watch services" in Brooklyn, Manhattan and the Bronx, records show. Sheena Wright, the first deputy mayor in the Adams administration and the fiancée of Mr. Banks's brother, the schools chancellor, sits on the housing authority's board and voted to approve the emergency contract, records show.
Mr. Banks's business dealings have been under scrutiny at least since his phones were seized this month by federal agents investigating a possible bribery scheme involving city contracts. The phones of Mr. Banks's brothers -- David Banks, the schools chancellor, and Terence Banks, a consultant with clients who received city contracts -- were also taken as part of the corruption inquiry.
The investigation involving Philip Banks and his brothers is one of at least four separate federal inquiries focused on members of the Adams administration -- inquiries that have rocked City Hall and raised questions about Mr. Adams's political future. It was not clear whether City Safe Partners was a focus of any of the investigations.
The company's fortunes, however, seemed to have run in parallel with the political fortunes of Mr. Banks and another top Adams aide who was once briefly involved with the firm.
A spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, which is conducting three of the four investigations, including the one that resulted in the phone seizures, declined to comment. So did a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Investigation, which is assisting in the inquiries.
Mr. Banks bought an interest in the security firm in 2015, a City Hall spokesman told The Times last year, and he was listed as a member of the firm's management team on an archived version of its website as recently as 2018.
Had Mr. Banks retained any financial interest in the company, its city business would likely have raised ethical and legal concerns. But a representative of City Safe Partners said Mr. Banks sold 100 percent of his interest in the firm to its current owner on July 9, 2018.
Benjamin Brafman, a lawyer for Mr. Banks, said his client had long had nothing to do with City Safe, which was originally formed as Overwatch Services LLC.
"Banks was with Overwatch for less than two years and was long gone before the contracts you reference were ever awarded," Mr. Brafman said.
On Friday, a spokeswoman for the mayor's office, Liz Garcia, said that Mr. Banks had divested from the company before joining the administration, but she did not say when he did so or provide documents reflecting the divestment. She said he had had no involvement in its operation in years.
A lawyer for Sheena Wright, Xavier R. Donaldson, declined to comment.
The security company was founded in 2010 by Dwayne Montgomery, a retired police inspector who worked and socialized with Mr. Adams at the Police Department. Mr. Montgomery was charged last year with conspiring to funnel illegal donations to Mr. Adams's 2021 mayoral campaign; Mr. Montgomery pleaded guilty to misdemeanor conspiracy in February and was sentenced to 200 hours of community service.
Mr. Banks bought the security firm with a partner, a former police sergeant named Soyini Chan-Shue, from Mr. Montgomery months after Mr. Banks abruptly retired from the Police Department amid a federal corruption probe. Mr. Banks, who had been the chief of department, the highest-ranking uniformed official on the force, was labeled an unindicted co-conspirator in that wide-ranging corruption investigation, which resulted in several convictions, including that of a Police Department chief who served as his top aide, as well as Mr. Banks's close friend, the head of the correction officers' union. Mr. Banks was never charged with any crime.
After Mr. Banks joined the security firm, it began using the name City Safe Partners, records show.
On its website, the company prominently featured Mr. Banks's credentials with the Police Department.
"Philip Banks III is one of the highest-profile security and law enforcement leaders in America," the website said. "His extensive executive-level security and law enforcement experience spans 28 years culminating in his role as the highest-ranking uniformed position in the New York City Police Department."
Winnie Greco, who would become Mr. Adams's special adviser and director of Asian affairs, was also prominently displayed on the company's website as a member of the management team in 2018, according to an archived version of the site.
Ms. Greco, a major fund-raiser for Mr. Adams during his mayoral campaign, has close ties to New York City's Chinese community. Her homes were searched by agents in February as part of a separate federal investigation.
Ms. Greco was engaged by City Safe to generate new business by providing "training of Chinese security staff," but no business ever materialized and she was paid no money by the firm, the company representative said.
A lawyer for Ms. Greco, Steven Brill, said his client had no substantive role with the company.
"Winnie has no connection to this company," he said.
City Safe is currently helmed by Ms. Chan-Shue, the former sergeant with the Police Department, who long worked under Mr. Banks during his time there. After more than two decades at the department, Ms. Chan-Shue retired and then became the chief executive of City Safe in 2016, according to her LinkedIn profile.
Since it was launched, the security firm has advertised its status as a minority-owned business -- a designation that allowed it to qualify for certain government business under programs aimed at giving contracts to firms owned by women and members of minority groups, records show.
Before Mr. Adams took office, City Safe did some business with the city, records show. It was paid $ 4,773 by the Department of Parks & Recreation in 2014 to provide security guards for a summer solstice event at an office building in Harlem, according to a department spokeswoman.
It also had some business with the state.
In 2017, the company started receiving a portion of a contract with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a state-run agency, to provide security guards to patrol subway stations as part of a push to improve safety. Another aim of the contract was to combat fare evasion -- which would become a priority for Mr. Adams once he took office and installed Mr. Banks as an influential public safety aide. The company continued as a subcontractor until April 2024, according to the authority. They were paid $ 7.2 million, the City Safe representative said.
After Mr. Adams took office, the company's business with the city and other government entities appeared to take off, records show.
In 2022, City Safe Partners was hired as a subcontractor to help provide vetting and identification cards to staff members at Kennedy and Newark Liberty Airports, the company representative said. The subcontract was worth $ 10 million, according to records the firm provided to the city. Both airports are managed not by city officials but by the state-run Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The work was performed on behalf of the New Jersey-based company Inter-Con Security.
In January of that year, Inter-Con announced that it had been selected as the sole awardee of the Port Authority's five-year contract for uniformed security guard services. The company's news release said it would be responsible for providing more than 1,000 security guards for the Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark airports, the World Trade Center campus and the Port Authority Trans-Hudson transit system.
Inter-Con's vice president, Matthew Reeser, confirmed to The Times that City Safe had performed subcontracting work under that contract but declined to provide details about the amount and nature of the agreement.
In 2023, the New York City Housing Authority was unhappy with the performance of a security company that it had hired to provide fire safety services, and the agency began looking for new firms, prioritizing those classified as minority and women-owned businesses, an agency spokeswoman said. The authority launched a competitive bidding process, and four companies submitted quotes, the spokeswoman said. City Safe was one of them.
As part of the contract, City Safe would place up to 500 guards in more than 150 public housing developments to monitor them for fires.
At a board meeting in January, housing authority officials said that state law had required them to have people watching out for fires around the clock while repairs were being made to fire safety systems. Jamie Rubin, the chair of the authority's board, questioned the need to spend $ 154 million and said he felt like there "had to be another path forward."
"It's an eye-watering number for something that seems like there's another solution," he said.
Nevertheless, the board, which included Ms. Wright, approved the $ 154 million emergency contract to City Safe. Mr. Banks's former security firm got the job because it was "the lowest responsive and responsible bidder" that was not already providing fire and security services to the public housing agency, the authority's spokeswoman said.
So far, the company has been paid $ 13.3 million of the three-year contract and the agency said it did not expect to reach the contract's maximum value.
Mihir Zaveri and Jay Root contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Mihir Zaveri and Jay Root contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Photograph Dealings of Philip B. Banks III, the deputy mayor for public safety, have been under scrutiny since his phone was seized this month by federal agents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAMY LIVE NEWS VIA AP/ALAMY, VIA ALAMY LIVE NEWS VIA AP) (A18) This article appeared in print on page A1, A18.

Subject: Subcontractors; Guards; Mayors; Police corruption; Police departments; Criminal investigations; Law enforcement; Public safety; Airports

Business indexing term: Subject: Guards Airports

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/20/nyregion/fbi-phil-banks-contracts.html

Title: Flurry of City Work for Adams Aide's Old Firm:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 21, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3107341973

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/flurry-city-work-adams-aides-old-firm/docview/3107341973/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pager Firm In Taiwan Distancing From Attack: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Buckley, Chris; Amy Chang Chien

Publication info: Buckley, Chris; Amy Chang Chien. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pager-firm-taiwan-distancing-attack/docview/3106573144/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The company, Gold Apollo, said it had not manufactured the devices, pointing to another company that it said was licensed to use its brand.
Gold Apollo, a Taiwanese company that American and other officials named as the supplier of pagers used in attacks in Lebanon that killed at least 11 people, sought on Wednesday to distance itself from the devices.
American and other officials briefed on the attack had said that Israel had inserted explosive material into a shipment of pagers from Gold Apollo, in an apparently coordinated operation aimed at Hezbollah.
Gold Apollo denied that it had made the pagers, pointing instead at another manufacturer that it said had made that model of pager, using Gold Apollo's brand, as part of a licensing deal.
Explosive material that had been concealed inside a batch of the pagers detonated after they received a signal. Around 2,700 people were also injured by the attack.
But at Gold Apollo's office on the outskirts of Taipei on Wednesday, Hsu Ching-Kuang, the company's founder and president, said the pagers were made by another company. Gold Apollo later identified that company as B.A.C. Consulting, a firm it described as having an address in Budapest.
Mr. Hsu said he had agreed about three years ago to let B.A.C. sell its own products using the Gold Apollo brand, which he said had a good reputation in the niche market.
"That product isn't ours. They just stick on our company brand," Mr. Hsu told journalists, adding that in return his company received a share of the profits.
"We only provide brand trademark authorization and have no involvement in the design or manufacturing of this product," Gold Apollo said in a written statement. Even so, the Gold Apollo website displayed a picture of the pager model until the web page was taken down on Wednesday. Some of the officials briefed on the operation had said that the pagers, which Hezbollah had ordered, had been tampered with before they reached Lebanon, and that most were Gold Apollo's AR924 model, though three other Gold Apollo models were also included in the shipment.
In a separate statement, Gold Apollo said that the AR924 model was produced and sold by B.A.C., with which it had a "long-term partnership." "Our company only provides the brand trademark authorization and is not involved in the design or manufacturing of this product," the company said.
Efforts to contact B.A.C. and verify Gold Apollo's account were not immediately successful.
Cristiana Bársony-Arcidiacono, who lists herself as the chief executive of B.A.C. Consulting on LinkedIn, did not immediately respond to messages. "I don't make the pagers," she told NBC News. "I am just the intermediate."
A top Hungarian official also tried to distance the country from what the explosions. "The company in question is a trading intermediary, with no manufacturing or operational site in Hungary, " Zoltan Kovacs, Hungary's secretary for international communication, said in a post on social media. He added, "The referenced devices have never been in Hungary."
Tracing how and when the pagers were packed with explosive material could be complicated. Taiwan's sprawling consumer electronics industry is a complex supply chain of brands, manufacturers and agents.
Taiwan's Ministry of Economic Affairs, which oversees trade, said that its records showed "no direct exports to Lebanon" of such pagers from Gold Apollo. The company's pagers were mainly exported to Europe and North America, the ministry said. The company reviewed news reports and photographs and judged that the pagers had been modified only after being exported from Taiwan, the ministry said. The New York Times could not independently verify the assessment.
Mr. Hsu said that he had a longstanding relationship with B.A.C. before they struck the brand licensing deal. Looking back, he said, there was one "odd" incident with B.A.C., when a local Taiwanese bank had delayed a bank transfer from the company because the local bank had suspicions about it. Mr. Hsu said the transfer might have come from a bank in the Middle East. He did not say which country.
Amelia Nierenberg and Barnabas Heincz contributed reporting.
Amelia Nierenberg and Barnabas Heincz contributed reporting.
This article appeared in print on page A9.

Subject: Manufacturing; Paging systems

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing

Location: Hungary; Lebanon; Taiwan

Company / organization: Name: Hezbollah-Party of God; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/18/world/asia/taiwan-pagers-lebanon.html

Title: Pager Firm In Taiwan Distancing From Attack:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.9

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 19, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuestdocument ID: 3106573144

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pager-firm-taiwan-distancing-attack/docview/3106573144/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Video Reports Princess Kate Has Finished Chemotherapy: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Landler, Mark

Publication info: Landler, Mark. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/video-reports-princess-kate-has-finished/docview/3102250308/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a video message, Catherine said she would return to more of her duties, a positive development, but many questions remain about her condition and treatment.
Catherine, the Princess of Wales, announced on Monday that she had completed chemotherapy for her cancer, lifting a cloud from the British royal family after an anguished period in which she and her father-in-law, King Charles III, had both been stricken with serious illness.
Speaking in an emotional three-minute video, Catherine said, "As the summer comes to an end, I can't tell you what a relief it is to have finally completed my chemotherapy treatment."
"Doing what I can to stay cancer-free is now my focus," she continued. "Although I have finished chemotherapy, my path to healing and full recovery is long, and I must continue to take each day as it comes."
The videotaped announcement was highly personal, offering home-movie-style glimpses of Catherine with her husband, Prince William, and their three children. But it left many questions unanswered: whether her doctors have declared her medically free of cancer, whether she is still undergoing other forms of treatment and her prognosis for a full recovery.
Kensington Palace did not indicate that Catherine was cancer-free. And officials did not offer further details on the princess's medical condition, citing her right to privacy. It has never confirmed what type of cancer she was being treated for, how far the disease had progressed or the details of her treatment, beyond chemotherapy.
Dr. Claudine Isaacs, an oncologist and professor of medicine at the Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center at Georgetown University, said that, in general, doctors were cautious about declaring a patient free of cancer because there could be microscopic cancerous material that escaped detection.
"Often, we can't detect any cancer," Dr. Isaacs said, "but that does not guarantee the person is, or will remain, cancer-free."
Catherine said she looked forward to returning to work and would undertake a limited schedule of public events for the rest of the year. She is expected to attend a ceremony honoring those killed in war at the Cenotaph monument in November, one of the most somber dates on the royal calendar.
"The last nine months have been incredibly tough for us as a family," Catherine said. "Life as you know it can change in an instant, and we have had to find a way to navigate the stormy waters and road unknown."
The announcement, filmed last month by Will Warr, a London videographer who specializes in wedding videos, put the emphasis on recovery and family rather than clinical details. Shot in gauzy light with a mix of soft focus and newsreel-style images, the video showed Catherine playing with her children, resting her head on William's shoulder and walking through a field of waving grain.
Catherine, 42, spoke in a voice-over about her ordeal, which began after Christmas, when she entered a hospital for abdominal surgery.
"The cancer journey is complex, scary and unpredictable for everyone, especially those closest to you," Catherine said. "With humility, it also brings you face to face with your own vulnerabilities in a way you have never considered before, and with that, a new perspective on everything."
Over footage of her son Prince Louis scampering up a pile of logs, the family laughing during a card game around a kitchen table with Catherine's parents, frolicking on the beach and walking hand in hand through forest and fields, Catherine characterized her illness as having pulled her focus back to the things that matter.
"This time has above all reminded William and me to reflect and be grateful for the simple yet important things in life, which so many of us often take for granted," Catherine said. "Of simply loving and being loved."
Charles, who announced in February that he, too, had been diagnosed with cancer, has returned to public duties, though Buckingham Palace has not yet said whether he continues to undergo treatment. His wife, Queen Camilla, offered the closest thing to a health update last week when she said of her husband, during a visit to a cancer center in Bath, "He's doing very well."
Catherine's tentative return to public life began in June when she attended Trooping the Color, a military parade that honors the birthday of the king. She rode in a state carriage to watch the parade with her children, Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Louis.
Hopes for Catherine's condition rose when she made a second public appearance in July, on the final day of the Wimbledon tennis tournament. Wearing a royal purple dress, she won an enthusiastic standing ovation from spectators, including the actor Tom Cruise, as she entered the gallery. Later, in her role as the royal patron of the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club, Catherine presented the Challenge Cup to the men's singles champion, Carlos Alcaraz of Spain.
Still, Catherine has tried to manage public expectations about her recovery since she spent 14 days in a hospital and announced the cancer diagnosis in March.
"I am making good progress," she said in a statement issued the day before she took part in the birthday parade, "but as anyone going through chemotherapy will know, there are good days and bad days."
"On those bad days you feel weak, tired and you have to give in to your body resting," Catherine added. "But on the good days, when you feel stronger, you want to make the most of feeling well."
Kensington Palace, where Catherine and William have their offices, has pleaded with the news media to respect her privacy, following weeks of breathless rumors about her condition earlier in the year. There has been relatively little speculation since she announced her diagnosis in a stark, prerecorded video.
As she has at other key phases of her recovery, Catherine has sought to keep tight control over how she discloses information to the public. Mr. Warr, the filmmaker who shot the latest video, also produced a video for the couple on their 10th wedding anniversary. In addition to wedding videos, Mr. Warr works for commercial clients like Puma, Red Bull and Tesco, according to his LinkedIn page.
Palace officials said the video was meant to underscore how the natural world has been a sanctuary for Catherine during her recovery. In her therapeutic language, she sought to make her ordeal a source of hope for others.
"To all those who are continuing their own cancer journey," she concluded, "I remain with you, side by side, hand in hand. Out of darkness can come light, so let that light shine bright."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A8.

Subject: Cancer; Weddings; Families & family life; Privacy; Chemotherapy

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/09/world/europe/kate-middleton-cancer-free-chemotherapy.html

Title: Video Reports Princess Kate Has Finished Chemotherapy:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 10, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3102250308

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/video-reports-princess-kate-has-finished/docview/3102250308/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Soccer Was Changed By Twitter, and X Might Do It Again: [Sports Desk]

Author: Smith, Rory

Publication info: Smith, Rory. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/soccer-was-changed-twitter-x-might-do-again/docview/3101745731/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The world's most popular pastime has been irrevocably shaped by its exposure to social media. That evolution can still go awry.
It may not quite qualify as a Silicon Valley parable, but it does not fall too far short. It is impossible, now, to imagine the social media platform X -- the thing that we all still think of, reflexively, as Twitter -- without that distinctive, pointed ouroboros nestled at the foot of each post, the one that serves as a gauge, a currency and a vector of virality.
The retweet -- the capacity to share, quickly and easily, a contribution that you enjoy or endorse or otherwise wish to bring to the attention of others -- was the innovation that made Twitter work. It gave a niche idea its purpose, turning a curious app into a transformative social, cultural and political force and, eventually, a billionaire's plaything.
It was not, though, deliberate. Retweeting was not designed by the cadre of developers who founded Twitter. It did not exist in the early versions of the app. There was, in its first iterations, no way of amplifying the best (or, later, worst) content that emerged from the doomscroll. The app's founders had not, it seems likely, considered what their invention would be for.
Instead, the retweet was the brainchild of the platform's early adopters, "bootstrapping a tool for spreading news and popular posts," as the journalist Taylor Lorenz writes in Extremely Online, her history of social media and the rise of influencer culture. "Twitter did not integrate retweeting into its product until late 2009," almost three years after its launch, she notes.
Lorenz's book is full of stories like this. YouTube was initially designed to be a dating site. Instagram's founders were intensely wary of advertising and product promotion, fearing that the venal impulses of capitalism might interfere with their app's aesthetics. LinkedIn was not built for finance bros to brag about "the grind."
These platforms, whatever the original motivation behind their development, were shaped by the people who spent time on them, who used them, who gradually became addicted to them. The founders built the infrastructure -- and have been amply rewarded for it -- but the users determined the purpose and the utility.
That has been true, certainly, within soccer. That sports in general is almost entirely absent from Lorenz's book -- a better reviewer than me might point out that it is a little light on the whole misinformation business, too -- is not a surprise. Social media is a misnomer; despite the name, our experience of it is wholly idiosyncratic. Lorenz does not, I would guess, get that many Gary Neville clips on her various feeds.
Still, it is a noteworthy omission. That is partly just a matter of raw numbers: A far greater proportion of users than the people who run these apps seem to realize are there less to discuss wild conspiracy theories about Brazilian jurisprudence and more to find out who Joao Félix is signing for this summer.
But it is also because of the effects. The world's most popular pastime has been irrevocably shaped by its exposure to social media over the last two decades or so. The way the game is followed, the way it is consumed, even -- to some extent -- the way it is played all bear the marks of Silicon Valley's unseen hand.
That is true, in particular, of what has always been the sport's platform of choice: Twitter. Soccer's early brushes with the platform were uneasy: When the Dutch forward Ryan Babel was fined for publishing a doctored photograph of the referee Howard Webb in a Manchester United jersey on his feed early in 2011, most clubs were of the view that this newfangled "microblogging website" was more trouble than it was worth.
Soccer soon overcame its nerves. The following year, Eden Hazard announced his move from Lille to Chelsea on Twitter. "I'm signing for the Champions League winner," he wrote. By 2017, Manchester United and Adidas were designing the announcement of Paul Pogba's transfer to play out on social media; a few months later, Twitter granted Pogba his own emoji.
More than Instagram and, later, TikTok, soccer and Twitter felt like a natural fit. It worked for the clubs, who could use it not only to circumvent legacy media but to calculate and expand their global popularity. It worked for the players, who could build their brands, communicate with their audience, tell their stories.
Most of all, it worked for the fans. Twitter was a place to follow games, to review performances, to monitor the game's great rolling soap opera. It was a place where you could gather with fellow fans and crow at rivals. It was a place where tribalism could flourish and invective could pour. It could emphasize commonality and difference, all at once. It could be, and often was, deeply toxic, particularly for anyone who did not happen to be a white man.
Twitter always saw itself as the global town square -- a self-definition that Elon Musk has encouraged since his buyout -- but that is a misunderstanding. It was not one large conversation, but millions of small ones. Some people might be debating the machinations of the Deep State, but others were working out whether someone who is 28 is, in fact, 29.
That was true within soccer, too. Twitter provided a stage on which all of the distinct communities of soccer fans could find each other. There was a Twitter experienced by tactics nerds and data enthusiasts, a Twitter for those who liked the Bundesliga, another for those who considered themselves scouts. There was Ronaldo Twitter and Messi Twitter, Liverpool Twitter and Manchester United Twitter.
The relationship, after a while, became reciprocal. The most direct impact of that is, perhaps, all of those people now working within soccer -- as data analysts and scouts and coaches and journalists -- who first used Twitter to spread their ideas, to amplify their work, to find their audience.
But Twitter, and the need to appeal to it, also changed how the game is discussed. The partisan squabbling of Jamie Carragher and Gary Neville; the zany antics of CBS Sports' Champions League pundits; the willingness to engage with data in the course of analysis; the stylized, dramatic videos with which clubs announce new signings -- all of them can trace their roots back to the feed.
Some of those changes have, of course, been more welcome than others, but few have been actively harmful. The risk, though, is that soccer's relationship with Twitter is now so embedded, its addiction so deep, that it is particularly vulnerable to the platform's sudden -- and apparently deliberate -- volatility.
It is not just that the platform now makes it impossible for cogent new voices to build a following, shutting down its function as a pathway for talent, but that its algorithm has been honed to prioritize the extreme, the willfully controversial and, often, the downright unpleasant.
Over the last week or so, my For You feed -- the one determined by algorithm, rather than chronology -- has offered installments on a particularly stupid debate about whether Erling Haaland is better than Luis Suárez; various posts with inflammatory captions contrasting Bukayo Saka's trophy haul with that of Phil Foden; and an endless supply of memes about Cristiano Ronaldo. (Also, as for everyone else, every single thought that Elon Musk has.)
The risk is, of course, that soccer does not drift away from the platform as it becomes less and less rewarding, but follows its established pattern: that what the algorithm recommends now is a glimpse of how soccer will be presented, and consumed, in the future.
Soccer cannot easily remove itself from this ecosystem. The app -- whatever we call it now -- remains the easiest place to track the game's ever-rotating news cycle. But as the conversation becomes more fractured, more caustic and more confrontational, it feels less like the experience is being shaped by us and more like it is being defined for us. Twitter has already changed the way soccer is consumed beyond recognition. The worry is that it is just getting started.
Self-Disruption
Increasingly, it feels a little like Arsenal has happened on a glitch in the matrix: one which involves Chelsea's spending colossal amounts of money on soccer players and then, after it has grown bored of them, just sort of giving them to Arsenal, either for a cut-price fee (Jorginho) or for nothing at all (Raheem Sterling).
It is, of course, a marvelous arrangement for Arsenal, which has now developed the happy habit of taking a team full of Chelsea castoffs that duly finishes some distance above Chelsea. But it does not reflect especially well on the team that now frequently feels a bit like its mark.
Two years into its bold attempt to disrupt the transfer market, Chelsea shows no sign of slowing down; this summer, once again, swept a great flotilla of players into Stamford Bridge, each one wearing a bright smile and clutching a seven-year contract.
Chelsea's ownership is adamant this is a good thing: all this talent, all this promise, tied down for a cumulative 191 years, acts as proof that they have spotted something the rest of soccer does not have the imagination to see.
In time, of course, it is possible Chelsea's thinking will be proved right. For now, though, it is only possible to judge the merits of the plan by what the club is currently doing, not what it says it might do one day. Chelsea spent the last week of the transfer window desperately trying to offload its surplus players to anyone who would have them. It is paying Sterling to play for a rival. That is the best gauge of how this is going.
It's Been a Vibe
All any player can ask for, really, when it comes to retirement is being able to call time on their career on their terms, and so it is for Alex Morgan: After winning two World Cups, an Olympic gold medal, a slew of national and international titles, and representing her country a vaguely ludicrous 224 times, the 35-year-old Morgan -- accomplished, at peace and (surprise!) pregnant -- announced on Thursday she was calling it quits after one final match this weekend.
Like all players, as she has grown older, Morgan has possibly become a little underappreciated, presented most recently as a question that Emma Hayes, the new U.S. national team coach, had to answer. A genuine star of remarkable longevity, a forward of rare talent, Morgan more than most deserved the dignity of determining the solution for herself.
Bad Faith
The Premier League has had a rough couple of weeks. First, it learned it did not have jurisdiction to punish Leicester City for breaching financial rules before its relegation in 2022: Being relegated meant that Leicester was, technically, no longer a Premier League team, and resided instead in soccer's equivalent of international waters.
Then, a few days later, the league approved Chelsea's sale of two hotels adjacent to its stadium to one of its sister companies. The deals had been assessed for "fair market value" and passed. As much as the league must know that this is a very obviously bad look, it had no legal recourse to challenge it.
The temptation here, of course, is both to rail against the pusillanimity of the league and to smirk at the sight of the world's most self-regarding sports competition being hoist by its own petard: The Premier League grew fat on its laissez-faire economics and its disregarded moral compass, and this is the consequence. In that framing, it deserves no sympathy.
But there is another reading. The Premier League cannot be reasonably expected to police its members and enforce its rules -- to function at all, in fact -- if those members are not at least trying to abide by those rules, rather than spending all of their time seeking loopholes and workarounds.
There is no reason for any Premier League team, given the league's financial power, to spend beyond its means. Doing so is not ambition; it is mismanagement. There is no reason Chelsea should have to sell hotels to itself to comply with the league's generous financial rules. That doing so is within the letter of the law should not excuse so flagrantly breaking the spirit of it.
So, yes, the Premier League has had a rough couple of weeks. But the blame for that lies with the clubs who do not seem to want to accept that the integrity of a sporting competition rests on everyone playing by the same rules, rather than trying to bend them into a shape that works for them alone.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page SP7.

Subject: Algorithms; Soccer; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Musk, Elon

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/06/world/europe/soccer-twitter-x.html

Title: Soccer Was Changed By Twitter, and X Might Do It Again:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SP.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 8, 2024

column: The On Soccer Newsletter

Section: SP

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3101745731

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/soccer-was-changed-twitter-x-might-do-again/docview/3101745731/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Agentic': [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/agentic/docview/3101745716/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: So-called agentic artificial intelligence doesn't require a human to tell it what to do. At least, that's the idea.
Spend enough time talking to tech executives and you might come away thinking generative artificial intelligence -- the technology behind ChatGPT and other services that can create text, video and images -- is about to upend every aspect of our lives.
A.I. co-pilots, assistants and agents promise to boost productivity with helpful suggestions and shortcuts. Today, A.I. tools can do simple, specific tasks like craft emails, make presentations or write code, but soon, tech executives say, they will usher us into a sort of efficiency nirvana, where digital assistants anticipate and deliver our every need before we have to ask.
One problem: Tech's hype machine moves faster than anyone can actually build the tech. The technologists are not waiting for it to catch up to its promises -- they're already on to the next thing. And what comes after A.I. agents? Agentic A.I.
/ā-jənt-ĭk/
It is a fancified way to say something acts like an agent. Unlike chatbots, which require a human to type in a prompt before it can spit out a response, agentic A.I. can act on its own. A customer could create a complex goal, like predicting which factory machines will need maintenance or booking a trip, and the A.I. would automatically complete the required tasks.
Or at least, that's the idea. Most agentic A.I. is still in the "possibility" stage. And that means it's a great time for tech companies to promote the heck out of it.
Agentic A.I. "heralds a transformative era," a start-up called Humans.AI declared on its blog. "We now live in an agentic economy," the chief executive of Humanic AI, a different start-up, wrote on LinkedIn. Snowflake, a provider of cloud computing services, recently released an agentic product that it says will let customers "talk to their data."
Start-ups are even naming themselves after the idea. Agentic.ai, founded in 2021, makes technology that can play video games for testing or to play alongside humans. Agentic Labs, founded last year, makes software for building software. Agentic Systems, founded this year, is operating in secret.
Andrew Ng, a prominent A.I. researcher, helped popularize the term this year as a way to quell debates over which technology should be considered an agent and which should not. "There's a gray zone," he wrote in a June newsletter. He concluded that "agentic" was an umbrella term encompassing tech that wasn't strictly an agent but that had agent-like qualities.
In other disciplines, agentic has meant very different things. Psychologists have used it to describe humans' capacity to exercise control over their lives. And privacy advocates have used it to describe technology that gives people control over how their data can be used.
Zoe Weinberg, a venture capital investor whose firm invests in the privacy- and security-focused kind of agentic tech, said it was ironic to see a term that started out describing human agency being used to talk about its opposite -- technology that operates with little or no human oversight.
It was, she said, "a very classic Silicon Valley trope."
Shop Talk explores the idioms of the business world. Want to nominate a word or term for the column?Email shoptalk@nytimes.com
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Software; Artificial intelligence; Startups

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/06/business/artificial-intelligence-agentic.html

Title: 'Agentic':   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 8, 2024

column: Shop Talk

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3101745716

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/agentic/docview/3101745716/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Hot Labor Market? College Grads Disagree.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Talmon Joseph Smith

Publication info: Talmon Joseph Smith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hot-labor-market-college-grads-disagree/docview/3101023066/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Unemployment is still low, but job seekers are competing for fewer openings, and hiring is sluggish. That's a big turnaround from recent years.
For much of the last three years, employers were fighting one another for workers. Now the tables have turned a bit. Few employers are firing. Layoff rates remain near record lows. But fewer employers are hiring.
That has left job seekers, employed or unemployed, competing for limited openings. And younger, less experienced applicants -- even those with freshly obtained college degrees -- have been feeling left out.
A spring survey of employers by the National Association of Colleges and Employers found that hiring projections for this year's college graduating class were below last year's. And it showed that finance, insurance and real estate organizations were planning a 14.5 percent decrease in hiring this year, a sharp U-turn from its 16.7 percent increase last year.
Separately, the latest report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows the overall pace of hiring in professional and business services -- a go-to for many young graduates -- is down to levels not seen since 2009.
For recent graduates, ages 22 to 27, rates of unemployment and underemployment (defined as the share of graduates working in jobs that typically do not require a college degree) have risen slightly since 2023, according to government data.
At 4.3 percent, the unemployment rate is still low. But a key measure of labor market momentum known as the hires rate, which tracks a month's hires as a share of overall employment, has notably fallen back to the sluggish pace of 2014.
"That is historically consistent with an unemployment rate of 6.5 percent," said Guy Berger, director of economic research at the Burning Glass Institute, which studies the labor market. "It's a tough time to find a job."
The LinkedIn Careers Index, a survey of LinkedIn members meant to track how they are feeling about their ability to get a job and a raise, and progress in their careers, was rising until January 2023. But the compilers of the index found last month that "workers are less confident in their career progress" than in July 2020, just after the brief but brutal pandemic recession.
Altogether, the data depict a moment that is far from dire for most recent graduates, but still discouraging for those who have spent the past year hunting hungrily for opportunities, especially work that feels like the right fit for their education and skills.
Baily Hays, a 2023 graduate of Pepperdine University in Malibu, Calif., is among them. An international relations major who lives in Seattle, she found an unpaid internship at a global nonprofit, International Justice Mission, shortly after finishing school so she could build more experience while looking for paid work.
But even after it ended, Ms. Hays spent four months of this year unemployed, in what she called a "grueling process." And she wasn't alone, she said: Other new graduates she knew spent "six to nine months" searching for a job, or are still looking. "I could say for probably almost 100 percent of my friends, it was pretty horrible," she said.
She felt that she and many of her young peers were falling victim to "ghost listings" -- job listings left up by employers that are not actively being filled. According to a wide range of labor market analysts, that ghosting has not just been in their heads.
Lisa K. Simon and Stephanie Hao, economists at Revelio Labs, a company that tracks employment data, found that the ratio of completed hires to job postings had plunged recently. In 2021, there were roughly eight hires for every 10 job postings. By early this year, there were only four hires per 10 postings. (Some of this could be explained by economic uncertainty among employers, not changes in their norms, but Revelio Labs also reported a 160 percent increase since 2018 in the share of interviewees who mention receiving no reply from recruiters.)
While searching for full-time work, Ms. Hays picked up dog-sitting gigs and, recently married, was able to save by moving in with her in-laws.
When a job opportunity in human resources came her way through a mentor's reference, she jumped at it. Though it was not necessarily her first pick coming out of school, she said, she has "totally adapted, and it's been good."
Still, there were times she wondered about going to graduate school -- "so I could skip the years of a bad job market," she said.
Tim Duy, a professor of economics at the University of Oregon and the chief economist at SGH Macro Advisors, a research firm, said he sympathized with the young people whose main problem in job hunting was graduating into a labor market was different from the one that existed a couple of years earlier.
"It's not fun," he said, but such labor market effects are routine when the Federal Reserve "is intentionally cooling down the economy."
After inflation soared in late 2021, the Fed responded by rapidly raising interest rates in 2022 and 2023. A large part of the Fed's stated aim was to slow down the labor market by making the cost of expanding a business less attractive. The economy has avoided an outright contraction in commercial activity, or a burst of bankruptcies. But Fed officials have largely achieved their implicit goal: suppressing the ability of many workers to obtain big raises or higher-paying jobs of their choice, which, in the view of policymakers, helps suppress inflation.
Inflation has decelerated sharply over the past year. And that has led Fed officials to signal they will soon ease up on the tight financial screws their rate policies put on many businesses. That is great news for recent graduates, and those of the near future, according to Karin Kimbrough, the chief economist for LinkedIn.
"I talk to a lot of C-suite professionals," Ms. Kimbrough said. And based on those conversations she believes that businesses have a pent-up willingness to hire, but have been in limbo, anxiously waiting for the Fed to actually lower rates.
"Companies that are waiting very much for rate cuts to materialize are also quite cautious about the economic outlook," she said in an interview late last month. "In that liminal state between whether we have actually escaped a recession -- which it appears so far we have -- I just think companies have been very cautious about hiring new entrants to the job market. I don't think that's a permanent state -- I think that it'll look different next year."
On top of experiencing anxieties induced by high interest rates, employers may have simply been avoiding large expansions or hiring waves that could end up looking like a waste of resources if a downturn materializes.
Fed officials are expected to reduce interest rates at their meeting in mid-September. Markets are pricing in a series of further rate cuts, continuing into next year.
That would substantially ease the cost of a variety of business deals and loans. And more broadly, even if the rate cuts are not large, they may still be seen as a bright greenlight that the economic expansion can continue with the Fed's blessing, and the brunt of the inflation fight behind them.
One potential knock-on effect of that shift could be a fresh wave of hiring.
"Monetary policy does have the ability to impact employers' hiring decisions, and also their confidence in deploying more capital and launching new initiatives," Ms. Kimbrough of LinkedIn said. Once interest rates decline, she concluded, "I think they'll feel more confident about hiring."
Photograph Baily Hays, a 2023 graduate of Pepperdine University, spent four months of this year unemployed, in what she described as a "grueling process." (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHONA KASINGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Hiring; Personal profiles; Employment; International relations; Economic conditions; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Inflation; Employers; Interest rates; Unemployment; Job hunting; Labor market; Recessions

Business indexing term: Subject: Hiring Employment International relations Economic conditions Federal Reserve monetary policy Inflation Employers Interest rates Unemployment Job hunting Labor market Recessions

Company / organization: Name: Pepperdine University; NAICS: 611310; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/05/business/economy/jobs-college-graduates-unemployment.html

Title: A Hot Labor Market? College Grads Disagree.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 6, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3101023066

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hot-labor-market-college-grads-disagree/docview/3101023066/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Hot Labor Market Has Melted Away. Just Ask New College Grads.

Author: Talmon Joseph Smith

Publication info: Talmon Joseph Smith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hot-labor-market-has-melted-away-just-ask-new/docview/3100981571/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For much of the past three years, employers were fighting one another for workers. Now the tables have turned a bit. Few employers are firing. Layoff rates remain near record lows. But fewer employers are hiring.
That has left job seekers, employed or unemployed, competing for limited openings. And younger, less experienced applicants — even those with freshly obtained college degrees — have been feeling left out.
A spring survey of employers by the National Association of Colleges and Employers found that hiring projections for this year’s college graduating class were below last year’s. And it showed that finance, insurance and real estate organizations were planning a 14.5% decrease in hiring this year, a sharp U-turn from its 16.7% increase last year.
Separately, the latest report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows the overall pace of hiring in professional and business services — a go-to for many young graduates — is down to levels not seen since 2009.
For recent graduates, ages 22-27, rates of unemployment and underemployment (defined as the share of graduates working in jobs that typically do not require a college degree) have risen slightly since 2023, according to government data.
At 4.3%, the unemployment rate is still low. But a key measure of labor market momentum known as the hires rate, which tracks a month’s hires as a share of overall employment, has notably fallen back to the sluggish pace of 2014.
“That is historically consistent with an unemployment rate of 6.5%,” said Guy Berger, director of economic research at the Burning Glass Institute, which studies the labor market. “It’s a tough time to find a job.”
The LinkedIn Careers Index, a survey of LinkedIn members meant to track how they are feeling about their ability to get a job and a raise, and progress in their careers, was rising until January 2023. But the compilers of the index found last month that “workers are less confident in their career progress” than in July 2020, just after the brief but brutal pandemic recession.
Altogether, the data depict a moment that is far from dire for most recent graduates, but still discouraging for those who have spent the past year hunting for opportunities, especially work that feels like the right fit for their education and skills.
Baily Hays, a 2023 graduate of Pepperdine University in Malibu, California, is among them. An international relations major who lives in Seattle, she found an unpaid internship at a global nonprofit, International Justice Mission, shortly after finishing school so she could build more experience while looking for paid work.
But even after it ended, Hays spent four months of this year unemployed, in what she called a “grueling process.” And she wasn’t alone, she said: Other new graduates she knew spent “six to nine months” searching for a job, or are still looking. “I could say for probably almost 100% of my friends, it was pretty horrible,” she said.
She felt that she and many of her young peers were falling victim to “ghost listings” — job listings left up by employers that are not actively being filled. According to a wide range of labor market analysts, that ghosting has not just been in their heads.
Lisa K. Simon and Stephanie Hao, economists at Revelio Labs, a company that tracks employment data, found that the ratio of completed hires to job postings had plunged recently. In 2021, there were roughly eight hires for every 10 job postings. By early this year, there were only four hires per 10 postings. (Some of this could be explained by economic uncertainty among employers, not changes in their norms, but Revelio Labs also reported a 160% increase since 2018 in the share of interviewees who mention receiving no reply from recruiters.)
While searching for full-time work, Hays picked up dog-sitting gigs and, recently married, was able to save by moving in with her in-laws.
When a job opportunity in human resources came her way through a mentor’s reference, she jumped at it. Though it was not necessarily her first pick coming out of school, she said, she has “totally adapted, and it’s been good.”
Still, there were times she wondered about going to graduate school — “so I could skip the years of a bad job market,” she said.
Tim Duy, a professor of economics at the University of Oregon and the chief economist at SGH Macro Advisors, a research firm, said he sympathized with the young people whose main problem in job hunting was graduating into a labor market that was different from the one that existed a couple of years earlier.
“It’s not fun,” he said, but such labor market effects are routine when the Federal Reserve “is intentionally cooling down the economy.”
After inflation soared in late 2021, the Fed responded by rapidly raising interest rates in 2022 and 2023. A large part of the Fed’s stated aim was to slow down the labor market by making the cost of expanding a business less attractive. The economy has avoided an outright contraction in commercial activity, or a burst of bankruptcies. But Fed officials have largely achieved their implicit goal: suppressing the ability of many workers to obtain big raises or higher-paying jobs of their choice, which, in the view of policymakers, helps suppress inflation.
Inflation has decelerated sharply over the past year. And that has led Fed officials to signal they will soon ease up on the tight financial screws their rate policies put on many businesses. That is great news for recent graduates, and those of the near future, according to Karin Kimbrough, the chief economist for LinkedIn.
“I talk to a lot of C-suite professionals,” Kimbrough said. And based on those conversations she believes that businesses have a pent-up willingness to hire, but have been in limbo, anxiously waiting for the Fed to actually lower rates.
“Companies that are waiting very much for rate cuts to materialize are also quite cautious about the economic outlook,” she said in an interview late last month. “In that liminal state between whether we have actually escaped a recession — which it appears so far we have — I just think companies have been very cautious about hiring new entrants to the job market. I don’t think that’s a permanent state — I think that it’ll look different next year.”
On top of experiencing anxieties induced by high interest rates, employers may have simply been avoiding large expansions or hiring waves that could end up looking like a waste of resources if a downturn materializes.
Fed officials are expected to reduce interest rates at their meeting in mid-September. Markets are pricing in a series of further rate cuts, continuing into next year.
That would substantially ease the cost of a variety of business deals and loans. And more broadly, even if the rate cuts are not large, they may still be seen as a bright greenlight that the economic expansion can continue with the Fed’s blessing, and the brunt of the inflation fight behind them.
One potential knock-on effect of that shift could be a fresh wave of hiring.
“Monetary policy does have the ability to impact employers’ hiring decisions, and also their confidence in deploying more capital and launching new initiatives,” Kimbrough said. Once interest rates decline, she concluded, “I think they’ll feel more confident about hiring.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Hiring; Personal profiles; Employment; International relations; Economic conditions; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Inflation; Employers; Interest rates; Unemployment; Labor market; Recessions

Business indexing term: Subject: Hiring Employment International relations Economic conditions Federal Reserve monetary policy Inflation Employers Interest rates Unemployment Labor market Recessions

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Linkedin Corporation; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Hiring And Promotion; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Wages And Salaries; Inflation (Economics); Stocks And Bonds; Labor And Jobs; Banking And Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; Oregon; National Assn Of Colleges And Employers; Unemployment; Youth; Two Thousand Twenty Three; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; California; Credit And Debt; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Recession And Depression; International Justice Mission; Education (K 12); Polls And Public Opinion; Burning Glass Institute; Generation Z; Indexers And Indexing; Pepperdine University; University Of Oregon; Business; Colleges And Universities; Bureau Of Labor Statistics; United States Economy

Title: The Hot Labor Market Has Melted Away. Just Ask New College Grads.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 5, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-05T22:46:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3100981571

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hot-labor-market-has-melted-away-just-ask-new/docview/3100981571/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What Should You Trust? Not Much, Chinese Intelligence Says.: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Wang, Vivian

Publication info: Wang, Vivian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-should-you-trust-not-much-chinese/docview/3100381487/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Watch out for Good Samaritans with ulterior motives, packages in your mail and college students looking to make a quick buck, China tells its people.
What do snapping turtles, tissue boxes and college students looking for part-time jobs have in common?
They all might be hiding threats to China's national security.
That, at least, is the message being pushed by the Ministry of State Security, China's main intelligence agency, in a flurry of recent social media posts. Every few days in the past month, the agency has published an addition to its long, wide-ranging list of dangers, with the stated goal being to keep the public vigilant and enlist it to fend off foreign enemies.
The drumbeat is part of a broader push by China's top leader, Xi Jinping, to make national security the country's top priority, above other longstanding goals, such as economic development.
In Beijing's view, that requires far more than strengthening spy agencies or investing in the military. It requires activating every Chinese citizen to be on the lookout, in what China has called a "whole of society" mobilization.
The creation of the usually secretive security ministry's social media account last year was one step toward that goal. The account's posts are reaching a wide audience: Each one on WeChat has been read more than 100,000 times -- the maximum view count that the messaging platform will show -- and hashtags about the warnings have been top trending topics on Weibo, another social media site.
In the past several weeks, here are some of the risks the security agency has warned about:
Apparent Good Samaritans: One recent post titled "Beware! Wolves in Sheep's Clothing" warned readers that spies might pose as generous donors. It told the story of a young orphan with top grades, who one day was approached by a stranger offering to financially support him through college. Over the years, the stranger kept in touch with the student and encouraged him to apply for a government job. When he landed it, the stranger asked him to share confidential information about China's economic policies. Fortunately, the post said, the student recalled the "anti-espionage propaganda education he'd received" and reported the stranger, whom the Chinese authorities confirmed was a foreign spy.
Courier services: Another post was called "These types of packages are not allowed!" Besides reminding people not to mail top-secret documents to spies, it warned that "some foreign organizations and individuals" had shipped animals, such as alligator snapping turtles, American bullfrogs and red fire ants, to China to reproduce as invasive species and destroy local ecosystems.
Students looking for cash: College students are a persistent source of worry for Beijing. Another post warned that students looking for part-time work may be targets for spies who ask them to take photos of scientific research sites for pay.
Students applying to colleges abroad: But students don't need to be sharing sensitive information to threaten national security. They may also be unwitting vessels for spreading a negative image of China -- as described in another post, where a study-abroad agency purportedly inserted political content critical of China into a student's application materials, to help them win admission overseas. "Without knowing it," the post said, the student went from "a young student with a simple résumé to an anti-China vanguard."
Pretty much anything: Pens can contain hidden cameras. Lighters can be bugged with listening devices. That dragonfly? Actually a tiny aerial drone. And beware the tissue box, which a guest may bring to a dinner party where major infrastructure projects are being discussed. A recorder may be hidden inside. "Some unassuming daily objects may contain mysteries," the post said, above a hotline for reporting spies.
Beijing is certainly not alone in calling for heightened vigilance as relations between China and the West have deteriorated. The United States has also warned, for example, that China is using LinkedIn to recruit spies. Chinese students and scholars have also complained of being detained or denied entry at the United States border even with valid visas.
China's desire to put these scenarios at the top of people's minds, and make suspicion a part of everyday life, is what sets it apart, said Andrew Chubb, a scholar of Chinese politics at Lancaster University in England.
"The question is the extent to which you want everybody thinking about that. Because it has major downsides in terms of constraining the activities people will engage in, interfering in people-to-people contact, just making people stop what they otherwise productively would be doing," Mr. Chubb said.
It is unclear how well the campaign is working. China's internet is heavily censored, and many comments online are supportive. Even so, some sarcastic comments have seeped through, asking, for example, whether mailing newspapers could entail leaking national secrets.
The fact that Beijing is pushing out these posts at all suggests that it knows many Chinese do not see the same threats that it does.
"Right from the top, it was perceived that the level of paranoia, if you like, was insufficient among the general population," Mr. Chubb said. "So there was a desire, and a continuous desire since then, to elevate it."
Photograph Surveillance cameras and a police van in Beijing in 2020, when pandemic concerns were high. At left, couriers' packages are among the dangers that elicit warnings by the Ministry of State Security. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROMAN PILIPEY/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; ANDRES MARTINEZ CASARES/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page A4.

Subject: Study abroad; College students; Cameras; National security; Espionage; Social networks; Part time employment; Good samaritans

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Part time employment

Location: China; Beijing China; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA; NAICS: 924110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/03/world/asia/china-security-threats.html

Title: What Should You Trust? Not Much, Chinese Intelligence Says.:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 4, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3100381487

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-should-you-trust-not-much-chinese/docview/3100381487/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Aide to Hochul is Facing Charges of Helping China: [National Desk]

Author: Meko, Hurubie; Rashbaum, William K

Publication info: Meko, Hurubie; Rashbaum, William K. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/aide-hochul-is-facing-charges-helping-china/docview/3100381452/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Linda Sun, who worked for both Gov. Kathy Hochul and Gov. Andrew Cuomo, was accused of using her position to benefit the Chinese government.
In July 2021, six Nanjing-style salted ducks, prepared by a Chinese consulate official's private chef, were delivered to the parents of an aide to New York's then governor, Andrew M. Cuomo. About four months later, another six ducks arrived at their home. Another four months later, there were more salted ducks. Eight months after that: still more salted ducks.
Prosecutors say that the poultry shipments, described in a federal indictment unsealed Tuesday, were just a small part of a yearslong series of payoffs to the aide, Linda Sun, in exchange for actions that benefited the People's Republic of China and its Communist Party. The 65-page indictment also described travel benefits, event tickets and the promotion of a close friend's freight business with a headquarters in Queens.
Prosecutors say that Ms. Sun blocked Taiwanese officials from having access to the governor's office, eliminated references to Taiwan from state communications and quashed meetings between Taiwanese officials and state leaders, including Gov. Kathy Hochul, who succeeded Mr. Cuomo and who promoted Ms. Sun to deputy chief of staff.
She also ensured that state officials did not publicly address the persecution of Uyghurs, a primarily Muslim ethnic group that for more than a thousand years has lived in a region of what is now China, prosecutors said.
Ms. Sun, 40, was charged on Tuesday with 10 criminal counts that included visa fraud, money laundering and other crimes. Her husband, Chris Hu, 41, a businessman, is charged in the indictment with money laundering.
Both pleaded not guilty in federal court, were released on bond and were required to surrender their passports.
Linda Sun's lawyer, Jarrod Schaeffer, said that Ms. Sun was looking forward to addressing the indictment in court. "Our client is understandably upset that these charges have been brought," Mr. Schaeffer said.
The accusations, if true, would represent a brazen manipulation of New York State government at the highest level, covering several years of the administrations of Ms. Hochul and Mr. Cuomo, both Democrats.
Avi Small, the press secretary for Ms. Hochul, said that Ms. Sun "was hired by the executive chamber more than a decade ago," adding that Hochul administration officials "immediately reported her actions to law enforcement and have assisted law enforcement throughout this process."
He said that the administration "terminated her employment in March 2023 after discovering evidence of misconduct."
The charges are the latest in the Justice Department's initiative -- driven especially in recent years by the U.S. attorney's office in Brooklyn -- to stop efforts by the Chinese government to wield its influence secretly across the United States.
Last month, Shujun Wang, 75, a Queens man who billed himself as a democracy activist and scholar, was convicted in Brooklyn federal court of acting as a spy for the Chinese Communist Party. Last summer, prosecutors won a case in the same court against three men who stalked a family in New Jersey on behalf of the Chinese government. In another case, two men were accused of running a secret police station for China in a Lower Manhattan building.
The push by prosecutors comes as escalating tensions between the United States and China over wars, trade and technology have damaged their diplomatic relationship. China's claims over portions of the South China Sea and the island of Taiwan have been bitterly disputed and were at the center of the allegations against Ms. Sun on Tuesday.
A spokesman for the Chinese Embassy, Liu Pengyu, said in a statement that he was not aware of the specific details of the case. He added: "But in recent years, the U.S. government and media have frequently hyped up the so-called 'Chinese agents' narratives, many of which have later been proven untrue. China requires its citizens overseas to comply with the laws and regulations of the host country, and we firmly oppose the groundlessly slandering and smearing targeting China."
Ms. Sun served as a deputy chief of staff to Ms. Hochul after holding a series of state government positions. In those jobs, according to the indictment, she used her sway to steer state officials away from actions that could have implied support for Taiwan. Nationalists established their own government on the island in 1949 after a civil war, and the People's Republic of China has laid claim to it ever since.
"No meeting please," she wrote to an Assembly member who had invited the governor to meet with the ambassador of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office. "Kindly decline. Do not want her to wade into this China/Taiwan sensitivity."
Prosecutors also accused Ms. Sun of providing unauthorized invitation letters from the governor's office to make it easier for Chinese government officials to travel to the United States and meet with state officials in New York.
She even arranged, without proper authorization, for Chinese government officials to receive official proclamations, formal framed documents that bear the state seal and the governor's signature. While these declarations hold little real meaning, some foreign officials hold them in high esteem.
In 2019, Tsai Ing-wen, who was then president of Taiwan, stopped in New York City during a visit to the United States. The Chinese government was opposed to Ms. Tsai's visit, even asking the United States government not to permit it.
Taiwanese officials invited Ms. Sun and Mr. Cuomo to a banquet, prosecutors said. However, Ms. Sun never forwarded the invitation and instead told the Taiwanese officials that Mr. Cuomo was hosting an activity day for staff members in the Catskills.
"I already blocked it," Ms. Sun wrote to a Chinese government official, according to the indictment.
On the day of the banquet, Ms. Sun joined leaders of local Chinese associations in a protest in Manhattan against Ms. Tsai, according to prosecutors.
In 2021, federal prosecutors said, Ms. Sun allowed a Chinese government official to "shape the content" of public remarks by Ms. Hochul and ensured that she "did not publicly address the detention of Uyghurs in PRC state-run camps in Xinjiang Province."
Among the benefits Ms. Sun received, according to the indictment, were the assistance with millions of dollars in transactions for China-based businesses tied to Mr. Hu; travel benefits; tickets to events such as a performance by the Chinese National Traditional Orchestra at Carnegie Hall; the promotion of the Queens freight business; and employment for Ms. Sun's cousin in China.
Prosecutors say Ms. Sun and Mr. Hu laundered the money they received to buy, among other things, their $ 3.6 million, five-bedroom home on a cul-de-sac in Manhasset, on the North Shore of Long Island; a $ 1.9 million condominium in Honolulu; and luxury cars, including a 2024 Ferrari.
Six weeks ago, F.B.I. agents descended on the cul-de-sac in Manhasset and searched the couple's house in an early-morning raid.
The indictment accuses Ms. Sun of failing to disclose benefits from the Chinese government or the Chinese Communist Party to the government in New York, as she was required to do under law.
Ms. Sun worked in state government for nearly 14 years, holding a variety of positions in the administrations of Mr. Cuomo and Ms. Hochul, according to her LinkedIn profile. She began in the legislative branch, working as chief of staff to an assemblywoman, Grace Meng, who is now a congresswoman.
Robert G. Ortt, the Senate Republican leader, said Tuesday that Ms. Sun's employment had been "an alarming security failure" and asked for an investigation to establish who should be held accountable.
Richard Azzopardi, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, said Ms. Sun had held only minor positions when Mr. Cuomo was governor. "While Ms. Sun was promoted to deputy chief of staff in the subsequent administration, during our time she worked in a handful of agencies and was one of many community liaisons who had little to no interaction with the governor," he said.
Ms. Sun held jobs focused on business development, Asian American affairs and diversity, equity and inclusion. She left Ms. Hochul's executive chamber after roughly 15 months, moving on to a position at the New York Department of Labor in November 2022. Five months later, she left to serve as campaign manager for Austin Cheng, a Democrat who unsuccessfully ran for a congressional seat on Long Island.
Even after Ms. Sun was let go by the Labor Department in March 2023, she continued to attend public and professional Asian community events, falsely claiming to be the department's deputy commissioner, according to the indictment. Ms. Sun apparently stopped doing so after receiving a cease-and-desist letter from the Labor Department that August.
Ms. Sun's husband, Mr. Hu, operates a liquor store in Flushing, Queens, called Leivine Wine & Spirits. Over the past decade, he has incorporated several other businesses, including a company he created in 2020 during the early days of the pandemic called Medical Supplies USA. He also created two other businesses, Golden Capital Group in 2016 and LCA Holdings in 2023, the nature of which could not be determined.
Outside Brooklyn federal court on Tuesday, lawyers for Ms. Sun and Mr. Hu addressed a pool of reporters, saying that they had confidence in the strength of the defense case.
"A number of the allegations in the indictment are, frankly, inflammatory, perplexing," said Seth DuCharme, who represents Mr. Hu.
During the hearing, prosecutors described what they said was a complex set of evidence, much of it in Mandarin. Alex Solomon, an assistant U.S. attorney, said the couple "operated a multitude of shell entities," including "more than 80 different accounts."
"This is no ordinary financial fraud," Mr. Solomon said.
Benjamin Oreskes, Jay Root and Olivia Bensimon contributed reporting.
Benjamin Oreskes, Jay Root and Olivia Bensimon contributed reporting.
Photograph Linda Sun (A1); Linda Sun and her husband, Chris Hu, outside federal court on Tuesday afternoon. Both were charged in a federal indictment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFERSON SIEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: State government; Law enforcement; Political leadership; Employment; Diplomatic & consular services; Public prosecutors; Political parties; Uyghur people; Money laundering; Indictments; Governors; Public officials

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment

Location: New York; United States--US; Long Island New York; China; Taiwan

People: Hochul, Kathleen C; Cuomo, Andrew M

Company / organization: Name: Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/03/nyregion/linda-sun-arrested-hochul.html

Title: Aide to Hochul is Facing Charges of Helping China:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 4, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United Sta tes

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3100381452

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/aide-hochul-is-facing-charges-helping-china/docview/3100381452/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hochul Aide Charged With Taking Money, Travel and Poultry to Help China

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Meko, Hurubie

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K; Meko, Hurubie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hochul-aide-charged-with-taking-money-travel/docview/3100331039/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In July 2021, six Nanjing-style salted ducks, prepared by a Chinese consulate official’s private chef, were delivered to the New York home where the parents of a senior aide to Gov. Kathy Hochul lived. About four months later, another six ducks arrived. Another four months later, there were more salted ducks. Eight months after that: still more salted ducks.
Prosecutors say that the poultry shipments, described in a federal indictment unsealed Tuesday, were a small part of a yearslong series of payoffs to the aide, Linda Sun, in exchange for actions that benefited the People’s Republic of China and its Communist Party. The 65-page indictment also described travel benefits, event tickets and the promotion of a close friend’s freight business with a headquarters in Queens.
Prosecutors say that Sun blocked Taiwanese officials from having access to the governor’s office, eliminated references to Taiwan from state communications and quashed meetings between Taiwanese officials and state leaders, including Hochul. She also ensured that state officials did not publicly address the persecution of Uyghurs, a primarily Muslim ethnic group that for more than 1,000 years has lived in a region of what is now China, prosecutors said.
Sun, 40, was charged Tuesday with 10 criminal counts that included visa fraud, money laundering and other crimes. Her husband, Chris Hu, 41, a businessperson, is charged in the indictment with money laundering.
Both pleaded not guilty in federal court, were released on bond and were required to surrender their passports.
Sun’s lawyer, Jarrod Schaeffer, said that Sun was looking forward to addressing the indictment in court. “Our client is understandably upset that these charges have been brought,” Schaeffer said.
The accusations, if true, would represent a brazen manipulation of New York’s state government at the highest level, covering several years of the administrations of Hochul and her predecessor, Andrew Cuomo, both Democrats.
Avi Small, the press secretary for Hochul, said that Sun “was hired by the executive chamber more than a decade ago,” adding that Hochul administration officials “immediately reported her actions to law enforcement and have assisted law enforcement throughout this process.”
He said that the administration “terminated her employment in March 2023 after discovering evidence of misconduct.”
The charges are the latest in the Justice Department’s initiative — driven especially in recent years by the U.S. attorney’s office in Brooklyn — to stop efforts by the Chinese government to wield its influence secretly across the United States.
Last month, Shujun Wang, 75, a Queens man who billed himself as a democracy activist and scholar, was convicted in Brooklyn federal court of acting as a spy for the Chinese Communist Party. Last summer, prosecutors won a case in the same court against three men who stalked a family in New Jersey on behalf of the Chinese government. In another case, two men were accused of running a secret police station for China in a building in lower Manhattan.
The push by prosecutors comes as escalating tensions between the United States and China over wars, trade and technology have damaged their diplomatic relationship. China’s claims over portions of the South China Sea and the island of Taiwan have been bitterly disputed and were at the center of the allegations against Sun on Tuesday.
Sun served as a deputy chief of staff to Hochul after holding a series of state government positions. In those jobs, according to the indictment, she used her sway to steer state officials away from actions that could have implied support for Taiwan. Nationalists established their own government on the island in 1949 after a civil war, and the People’s Republic of China has laid claim to it ever since.
“No meeting please,” she wrote to an Assembly member who had invited the governor to meet with the ambassador of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office. “Kindly decline. Do not want her to wade into this China/Taiwan sensitivity.”
Prosecutors also accused Sun of providing unauthorized invitation letters from the governor’s office to make it easier for Chinese government officials to travel to the United States and meet with state officials in New York.
She even arranged, without proper authorization, for Chinese government officials to receive official proclamations, formal framed documents that bear the state seal and the governor’s signature. While these declarations hold little real meaning, some foreign officials hold them in high esteem.
In 2019, Tsai Ing-wen, who was then president of Taiwan, stopped in New York City during a visit to the United States. The Chinese government was opposed to Tsai’s visit, even asking the U.S. government not to permit it.
Taiwanese officials invited Sun and Cuomo to a banquet, prosecutors said. However, Sun never forwarded the invitation and instead told the Taiwanese officials that Cuomo was hosting an activity day for staff members in the Catskills.
“I already blocked it,” Sun wrote to a Chinese government official, according to the indictment.
On the day of the banquet, Sun joined leaders of local Chinese associations in a protest in Manhattan against Tsai, according to prosecutors.
In 2021, federal prosecutors said, Sun allowed a Chinese government official to “shape the content” of public remarks by Hochul and ensured that she “did not publicly address the detention of Uyghurs in PRC state-run camps in Xinjiang province.”
Among the benefits Sun received, according to the indictment, were the assistance with millions of dollars in transactions for China-based businesses tied to Hu; travel benefits; tickets to events such as a performance by the Chinese National Traditional Orchestra at Carnegie Hall; the promotion of the Queens freight business; and employment for Sun’s cousin in China.
Prosecutors say Sun and Hu laundered the money they received to buy, among other things, their $3.6 million, five-bedroom home on a cul-de-sac in Manhasset, on the North Shore of Long Island, New York; a $1.9 million condominium in Honolulu; and luxury cars, including a 2024 Ferrari.
Six weeks ago, FBI agents descended on the cul-de-sac in Manhasset and searched the couple’s house in an early-morning raid.
The indictment accuses Sun of failing to disclose benefits from the Chinese government or the Chinese Communist Party to the government in New York, as she was required to do by law. Efforts to reach China’s embassy for comment were unsuccessful Tuesday.
Sun worked in state government for nearly 14 years, holding a variety of positions, according to her LinkedIn profile. She began in the legislative branch, working as chief of staff to an Assembly member, Grace Meng, who is now in Congress. Sun then worked in various positions in the administrations of Cuomo and Hochul, according to the LinkedIn profile.
Robert G. Ortt, the Senate Republican leader, said Tuesday that Sun’s employment had been “an alarming security failure” and asked for an investigation to establish who should be held accountable.
Richard Azzopardi, a spokesperson for Cuomo, said Sun had held only minor positions. “While Sun was promoted to deputy chief of staff in the subsequent administration, during our time she worked in a handful of agencies and was one of many community liaisons who had little to no interaction with the governor,” he said.
Sun held jobs focused on business development; Asian American affairs; and diversity, equity and inclusion. She left Hochul’s executive chamber after about 15 months, moving on to a position at the New York Department of Labor in November 2022. Five months later, she left to serve as campaign manager for Austin Cheng, a Democrat who unsuccessfully ran for a congressional seat on Long Island.
Even after Sun was let go by the Labor Department in March 2023, she continued to attend public and professional Asian community events, falsely claiming to be the department’s deputy commissioner, according to the indictment. Sun apparently stopped doing so after receiving a cease-and-desist letter from the Labor Department in August 2023.
Sun’s husband, Hu, operates a liquor store in Queens called Leivine Wine & Spirits. Over the last decade, he has incorporated several other businesses, including a company he created in 2020 during the early days of the coronavirus pandemic called Medical Supplies USA. He also created two other businesses, Golden Capital Group in 2016 and LCA Holdings in 2023, the nature of which could not be determined.
Outside Brooklyn federal court Tuesday, lawyers for Sun and Hu addressed a pool of reporters, saying that they had confidence in the strength of the defense case.
“A number of the allegations in the indictment are, frankly, inflammatory, perplexing,” said Seth DuCharme, who represents Hu.
During the hearing, prosecutors described what they said was a complex set of evidence, much of it in Mandarin. Alex Solomon, an assistant U.S. attorney, said the couple “operated a multitude of shell entities,” including “more than 80 different accounts.”
“This is no ordinary financial fraud,” Solomon said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: State government; Law enforcement; Political leadership; Employment; Diplomatic & consular services; Public prosecutors; Political parties; Uyghur people; Money laundering; Indictments; Governors; Public officials

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment

Location: New York; United States--US; Long Island New York; China; Taiwan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: United States; Chinese Americans; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); State Legislatures; States (Us); Nanjing (China); Rashbaum, William K; Long Island (Ny); Appointments And Executive Changes; Governors (Us); Asian Americans; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Minorities; New York City; Taiwan; Linkedin Corporation; Communist Party Of China; Elections; Politics And Government; Cuomo, Andrew M; Flushing (Queens, Ny); Automobiles; Meng, Grace; Taipei (Taiwan); Sun, Linda (1984 ); Hochul, Kathleen C; United States Politics And Government; International Relations; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Money Laundering; Taiwanese Americans; Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; Manhasset (Ny); Ferrari Spa; New York State; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Queens (Nyc); Honolulu (Hawaii); Luxury Goods And Services; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: Hochul Aide Charged With Taking Money, Travel and Poultry to Help China

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 4, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-04T00:18:56Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3100331039

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hochul-aide-charged-with-taking-money-travel/docview/3100331039/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

N.Y. Official Charged With Taking Money, Travel and Poultry to Aid China

Author: Meko, Hurubie; Rashbaum, William K

Publication info: Meko, Hurubie; Rashbaum, William K. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/n-y-official-charged-with-taking-money-travel/docview/3100331025/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In July 2021, six Nanjing-style salted ducks, prepared by a Chinese consulate official’s private chef, were delivered to the parents of an aide to New York’s then-Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. About four months later, another six ducks arrived at their home. Another four months later, there were more salted ducks. Eight months after that: still more salted ducks.
Prosecutors say that the poultry shipments, described in a federal indictment unsealed Tuesday, were a small part of a yearslong series of payoffs to the aide, Linda Sun, in exchange for actions that benefited the People’s Republic of China and its Communist Party. The 65-page indictment also described travel benefits, event tickets and the promotion of a close friend’s freight business with a headquarters in Queens.
Prosecutors say that Sun blocked Taiwanese officials from having access to the governor’s office, eliminated references to Taiwan from state communications and quashed meetings between Taiwanese officials and state leaders, including Gov. Kathy Hochul, who succeeded Cuomo and who promoted Sun to deputy chief of staff. She also ensured that state officials did not publicly address the persecution of Uyghurs, a primarily Muslim ethnic group that for more than 1,000 years has lived in a region of what is now China, prosecutors said.
Sun, 40, was charged Tuesday with 10 criminal counts that included visa fraud, money laundering and other crimes. Her husband, Chris Hu, 41, a businessperson, is charged in the indictment with money laundering.
Both pleaded not guilty in federal court, were released on bond and were required to surrender their passports.
Sun’s lawyer, Jarrod Schaeffer, said that Sun was looking forward to addressing the indictment in court. “Our client is understandably upset that these charges have been brought,” Schaeffer said.
The accusations, if true, would represent a brazen manipulation of New York state government at the highest level, covering several years of the administrations of Hochul and Cuomo, both Democrats.
Avi Small, the press secretary for Hochul, said that Sun “was hired by the executive chamber more than a decade ago,” adding that Hochul administration officials “immediately reported her actions to law enforcement and have assisted law enforcement throughout this process.”
He said that the administration “terminated her employment in March 2023 after discovering evidence of misconduct.”
The charges are the latest in the Justice Department’s initiative — driven especially in recent years by the U.S. attorney’s office in Brooklyn — to stop efforts by the Chinese government to wield its influence secretly across the United States.
Last month, Shujun Wang, 75, a Queens man who billed himself as a democracy activist and scholar, was convicted in Brooklyn federal court of acting as a spy for the Chinese Communist Party. Last summer, prosecutors won a case in the same court against three men who stalked a family in New Jersey on behalf of the Chinese government. In another case, two men were accused of running a secret police station for China in a building in lower Manhattan.
The push by prosecutors comes as escalating tensions between the United States and China over wars, trade and technology have damaged their diplomatic relationship. China’s claims over portions of the South China Sea and the island of Taiwan have been bitterly disputed and were at the center of the allegations against Sun on Tuesday.
A spokesperson for the Chinese Embassy, Liu Pengyu, said in a statement that he was not aware of the specific details of the case. He added: “But in recent years, the U.S. government and media have frequently hyped up the so-called ‘Chinese agents’ narratives, many of which have later been proven untrue. China requires its citizens overseas to comply with the laws and regulations of the host country, and we firmly oppose the groundlessly slandering and smearing targeting China.”
Sun served as a deputy chief of staff to Hochul after holding a series of state government positions. In those jobs, according to the indictment, she used her sway to steer state officials away from actions that could have implied support for Taiwan. Nationalists established their own government on the island in 1949 after a civil war, and the People’s Republic of China has laid claim to it ever since.
“No meeting please,” she wrote to an Assembly member who had invited the governor to meet with the ambassador of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office. “Kindly decline. Do not want her to wade into this China/Taiwan sensitivity.”
Prosecutors also accused Sun of providing unauthorized invitation letters from the governor’s office to make it easier for Chinese government officials to travel to the United States and meet with state officials in New York.
She even arranged, without proper authorization, for Chinese government officials to receive official proclamations, formal framed documents that bear the state seal and the governor’s signature. While these declarations hold little real meaning, some foreign officials hold them in high esteem.
In 2019, Tsai Ing-wen, who was then president of Taiwan, stopped in New York City during a visit to the United States. The Chinese government was opposed to Tsai’s visit, even asking the U.S. government not to permit it.
Taiwanese officials invited Sun and Cuomo to a banquet, prosecutors said. However, Sun never forwarded the invitation and instead told the Taiwanese officials that Cuomo was hosting an activity day for staff members in the Catskills.
“I already blocked it,” Sun wrote to a Chinese government official, according to the indictment.
On the day of the banquet, Sun joined leaders of local Chinese associations in a protest in Manhattan against Tsai, according to prosecutors.
In 2021, federal prosecutors said, Sun allowed a Chinese government official to “shape the content” of public remarks by Hochul and ensured that she “did not publicly address the detention of Uyghurs in PRC state-run camps in Xinjiang province.”
Among the benefits Sun received, according to the indictment, were the assistance with millions of dollars in transactions for China-based businesses tied to Hu; travel benefits; tickets to events such as a performance by the Chinese National Traditional Orchestra at Carnegie Hall; the promotion of the Queens freight business; and employment for Sun’s cousin in China.
Prosecutors say Sun and Hu laundered the money they received to buy, among other things, their $3.6 million, five-bedroom home on a cul-de-sac in Manhasset, on the North Shore of Long Island, New York; a $1.9 million condominium in Honolulu; and luxury cars, including a 2024 Ferrari.
Six weeks ago, FBI agents descended on the cul-de-sac in Manhasset and searched the couple’s house in an early-morning raid.
The indictment accuses Sun of failing to disclose benefits from the Chinese government or the Chinese Communist Party to the government in New York, as she was required to do by law.
Sun worked in state government for nearly 14 years, holding a variety of positions in the Cuomo and Hochul administrations, according to her LinkedIn profile. She began in the legislative branch, working as chief of staff to an assembly member, Grace Meng, who is now a member of Congress.
Robert G. Ortt, the Senate Republican leader, said Tuesday that Sun’s employment had been “an alarming security failure” and asked for an investigation to establish who should be held accountable.
Richard Azzopardi, a spokesperson for Cuomo, said Sun had held only minor positions while Cuomo was governor. “While Sun was promoted to deputy chief of staff in the subsequent administration, during our time she worked in a handful of agencies and was one of many community liaisons who had little to no interaction with the governor,” he said.
Sun held jobs focused on business development; Asian American affairs; and diversity, equity and inclusion. She left Hochul’s executive chamber after about 15 months, moving on to a position at the New York Department of Labor in November 2022. Five months later, she left to serve as campaign manager for Austin Cheng, a Democrat who unsuccessfully ran for a congressional seat on Long Island.
Even after Sun was let go by the Labor Department in March 2023, she continued to attend public and professional Asian community events, falsely claiming to be the department’s deputy commissioner, according to the indictment. Sun apparently stopped doing so after receiving a cease-and-desist letter from the Labor Department in August 2023.
Sun’s husband, Hu, operates a liquor store in Queens called Leivine Wine & Spirits. Over the last decade, he has incorporated several other businesses, including a company he created in 2020 during the early days of the coronavirus pandemic called Medical Supplies USA. He also created two other businesses, Golden Capital Group in 2016 and LCA Holdings in 2023, the nature of which could not be determined.
Outside Brooklyn federal court Tuesday, lawyers for Sun and Hu addressed a pool of reporters, saying that they had confidence in the strength of the defense case.
“A number of the allegations in the indictment are, frankly, inflammatory, perplexing,” said Seth DuCharme, who represents Hu.
During the hearing, prosecutors described what they said was a complex set of evidence, much of it in Mandarin. Alex Solomon, an assistant U.S. attorney, said the couple “operated a multitude of shell entities,” including “more than 80 different accounts.”
“This is no ordinary financial fraud,” Solomon said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: State government; Law enforcement; Political leadership; Employment; Diplomatic & consular services; Political parties; Public prosecutors; Uyghur people; Money laundering; Indictments; Governors; Public officials

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment

Location: New York; United States--US; Long Island New York; China; Taiwan

Company / organization: Name: Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: United States; Chinese Americans; Libel And Slander; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Federal State Relations (Us); State Legislatures; Sunlight; Rashbaum, William K; Wang, Shujun; Federal Courts (Us); Usa Network; Senate; Asian Americans; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Assaults; Minorities; New York City; Taiwan; Linkedin Corporation; Communist Party Of China; Careers And Professions; Justice Department; Ortt, Robert G; Elections; Politics And Government; Cuomo, Andrew M; Humanitarian Aid; Freight (Cargo); Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Automobiles; Meng, Grace; Taipei (Taiwan); Finances; Brooklyn (Nyc); Carnegie Hall; Decisions And Verdicts; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Tsai Ing Wen; Sun, Linda (1984 ); Hochul, Kathleen C; United States Politics And Government; Xinjiang (China); Muslim Americans; Frauds And Swindling; Law And Legislation; International Relations; Refugees And Displaced Persons; New Jersey; Money Laundering; Taiwanese Americans; Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; Manhasset (Ny); Ferrari Spa; New York State; Poultry; Cooking And Cookbooks; States (Us); Azzopardi, Richard; Nanjing (China); Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Ducharme, Seth D; Labor And Jobs; Queens (Nyc); Honolulu (Hawaii); Catskills (Nys Area); Long Island (Ny); Salt; Appointments And Executive Changes; Governors (Us); South China Sea; Luxury Goods And Services; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: N.Y. Official Charged With Taking Money, Travel and Poultry to Aid China

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 4, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-04T01:52:10Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3100331025

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/n-y-official-charged-with-taking-money-travel/docview/3100331025/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Former Aide to Hochul and Cuomo Is Charged as Chinese Agent

Author: Rashbaum, William K

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/former-aide-hochul-cuomo-is-charged-as-chinese/docview/3100331037/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
A senior aide to Gov. Kathy Hochul of New York was charged in federal court Tuesday with acting as an illegal agent of China for using her position to further the Chinese government’s interests, including by blocking Taiwanese officials’ access to the governor’s office.
The 65-page indictment detailed 10 criminal counts that included visa fraud, money laundering and other crimes, and accused the aide, Linda Sun, 40, of accepting substantial economic benefits in exchange for actions that benefited China and the Chinese Communist Party.
The accusations, if true, would represent a brazen manipulation of New York’s state government at the highest level, covering several years under the administrations of Hochul and her predecessor, Andrew Cuomo.
Sun and her husband, Chris Hu, 41, a businessperson who is charged in the indictment with money laundering, are expected to appear before a judge later Tuesday.
The indictment outlined several instances in which Sun interceded to eliminate references to Taiwan from various state communications, or quashed potential meetings between Taiwanese officials and state leaders, including Hochul.
“No meeting please,” she wrote to an Assembly member who invited the governor to meet with the ambassador of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office. “Kindly decline. Do not want her to wade into this China/Taiwan sensitivity.”
Prosecutors also accused Sun of providing unauthorized invitation letters from the governor’s office to make it easier for Chinese government officials to travel to the United States and meet with state officials in New York.
She even arranged, without proper authorization, for Chinese government officials to receive official state proclamations, formal framed documents that bear the state seal and the governor’s signature. While these declarations hold little to no real meaning, they are held in high esteem by some foreign officials.
Among the benefits Sun received, according to the indictment, were the assistance with millions of dollars in transactions for China-based businesses tied to Hu; travel benefits; event tickets; the promotion of a close friend’s business; and employment for Sun’s cousin in China.
Sun’s parents even reaped a gastronomical benefit: a Chinese delicacy, Nanjing-style salted ducks, that were prepared by a Chinese consulate official’s personal chef and delivered to the parents’ home.
Prosecutors say Sun and Hu laundered the money they received in the scheme to buy, among other things, their $3.6 million, five-bedroom home on a cul-de-sac in Manhasset, on the North Shore of Long Island, New York; a $1.9 million condominium in Honolulu; and luxury cars, including a 2024 Ferrari.
The indictment alleges that Sun failed to disclose any benefits she received from Chinese government or the Chinese Communist Party to the New York state government, as she was required to do under law as a government employee.
Avi Small, the press secretary for Hochul, said the administration “terminated her employment in March 2023 after discovering evidence of misconduct.”
Small noted that Sun “was hired by the executive chamber more than a decade ago,” adding that the administration “immediately reported her actions to law enforcement and have assisted law enforcement throughout this process.”
Neither Sun nor Hu could be reached Tuesday. A lawyer for Sun, Seth D. DuCharme, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Six weeks ago, FBI agents descended on the cul-de-sac in Manhasset and searched the couple’s house in an early-morning raid, though the basis for that action and the crimes they were investigating were unclear at that time. Neither could be reached for comment after the raid and they did not respond to voicemail and text messages.
Sun has worked in state government for nearly 14 years, holding a variety of positions, according to her LinkedIn profile.
She began in the legislative branch, working as chief of staff to an Assembly member, Grace Meng, who is now in Congress. Sun then worked in various positions in the administrations of Cuomo and Hochul, according to the LinkedIn profile. A spokesperson for Cuomo declined to comment on Sun’s indictment.
She served in roles focused on business development; Asian American affairs; and diversity, equity and inclusion. She left Hochul’s executive chamber after about 15 months, moving on to a position at the New York Department of Labor in November 2022. Five months later, she left to serve as campaign manager for Austin Cheng, a Democrat who unsuccessfully ran for a congressional seat on Long Island.
But even after Sun was let go by the Labor Department in March 2023, she continued to attend public and professional Asian community events, falsely claiming to be the department’s deputy commissioner, according to the indictment. Sun apparently stopped doing so after receiving a cease-and-desist letter from the Labor Department in August 2023.
Sun’s husband, Hu, operates a liquor store in Flushing, in New York City’s Queens borough, called Leivine Wine & Spirits. Over the last decade, he also has incorporated several other businesses, including a company he created in 2020 during the early days of the coronavirus pandemic called Medical Supplies USA. He also created two other businesses, Golden Capital Group in 2016 and LCA Holdings in 2023, the nature of which could not be determined.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: State government; Law enforcement; Diplomatic & consular services; Political parties; Money laundering; Governors; Criminal investigations; Public officials

Location: New York; United States--US; Long Island New York; China; Taiwan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Li nkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: United States; Chinese Americans; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); State Legislatures; States (Us); Nanjing (China); Rashbaum, William K; Long Island (Ny); Appointments And Executive Changes; Governors (Us); Asian Americans; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Minorities; New York City; Taiwan; Linkedin Corporation; Communist Party Of China; Elections; Politics And Government; Cuomo, Andrew M; Flushing (Queens, Ny); Automobiles; Meng, Grace; Taipei (Taiwan); Sun, Linda (1984 ); Hochul, Kathleen C; United States Politics And Government; International Relations; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Money Laundering; Taiwanese Americans; Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; Manhasset (Ny); Ferrari Spa; New York State; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Queens (Nyc); Honolulu (Hawaii); Luxury Goods And Services; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: Former Aide to Hochul and Cuomo Is Charged as Chinese Agent

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 3, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-03T19:52:06Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3100331037

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/former-aide-hochul-cuomo-is-charged-as-chinese/docview/3100331037/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Who Are the Biggest Donors To Trump and Harris?: [National Desk]

Author: Sc hleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-are-biggest-donors-trump-harris/docview/3099360616/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In presidential politics, campaigns are powered by billionaires. Here is a look at the most influential givers.
Follow the latest updates on the Harris and Trump campaigns .
In presidential fund-raising these days, the donors who matter most are the very small and the very, very big.
The very small are the lifeblood of campaigns, cultivated via email after email, and hounded for recurring donations.
But the very, very big can make contributions that eclipse a million small-dollar donors.
The campaigns of Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald J. Trump, when combined with their super PACs, have raised $ 1.3 billion, and that's not counting money raised by dark-money organizations that are active in the presidential race and don't disclose their donors. The final two months of the election typically see donors write some of the biggest checks of the campaign season. So we're just getting started.
Here's a look at the billionaires that are powering the campaigns.
Trump's most important donors
Mr. Trump has not added many new megadonors to his fold since his 2020 campaign. He himself has not traveled to many fund-raising events across the country -- a point of frustration for some of his fund-raisers who sometimes have to travel to Mr. Trump's own properties to get access to the candidate. Some traditional Republican donors who are uncomfortable with Mr. Trump are focusing their energies on down-ballot campaigns.
But Mr. Trump has, since 2016, transformed the Republican contributor class, developing a network of peculiar big donors loyal to him.
Tim Mellon
There is no donor who has publicly spent more for Mr. Trump this cycle than Timothy Mellon, heir to the Mellon banking fortune. He has put more than $ 125 million into Mr. Trump's campaign -- and it's only September.
Mr. Mellon, a reclusive businessman, burst onto the political donor scene seemingly out of nowhere. And while he has almost no relationship with Mr. Trump, he has financed much of MAGA Inc., a super PAC, providing almost half of the total money it has raised this cycle.
Mr. Mellon is also a friend of Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s and put $ 25 million into a pro-Kennedy super PAC, becoming this cycle's largest disclosed donor.
Elon Musk
The rise of Elon Musk as a political donor has been one of the most extraordinary stories of the 2024 campaign. Mr. Musk, the owner of the social media platform X and chief executive of Tesla, had never displayed much interest in politics, and his own proclivities were liberal. But this spring, he decided to start a super PAC that had grand ambitions to spend as much as $ 180 million on transforming the Republican Party's field organizing program.
It had a rocky start. But there's time, and Mr. Musk has brought in new leadership, including a new personal aide to help him make political decisions. Mr. Musk, at the very least, is someone whom Mr. Trump talks to and listens to: He took Mr. Musk's advice to choose JD Vance as his running mate, and Mr. Musk appears to have led Mr. Trump to soften his hostility toward electric vehicles.
Miriam Adelson
Miriam Adelson, a fervent supporter of Israel, decided earlier this year to break with the rest of Trump world and start her own super PAC. She is planning to put more than $ 100 million into the group.
Ms. Adelson took some criticism from Mr. Trump just a few days after meeting with him at the Republican National Convention in July, drawing his ire because she is working with more traditional establishment Republican operatives. But Mr. Trump then showered her with praise at a recent event focused on antisemitism, at which Ms. Adelson spoke.
Dick and Liz Uihlein
Dick and Liz Uihlein, the founders of the shipping company ULine, are staunch conservatives and have long been significant donors to the anti-tax organization Club for Growth. So they were drawn to Gov. Ron DeSantis's presidential campaign during the Republican primary.
But they are team players, and they have returned to the Trump fold. Like Ms. Adelson, the pair met with Mr. Trump at the Republican National Convention, according to a person briefed on their meeting.
Linda McMahon
Linda McMahon is a longtime friend of Mr. Trump's as well as a major donor. Mr. Trump named her as the head of the Small Business Administration when he was president and granted her a speaking slot at the Republican National Convention. On another night, she joined Mr. Trump in his box at the convention.
Her power comes not just from her money but from her role: She joins another major Trump donor, Howard Lutnick, chief executive of Cantor Fitzgerald, as one of the co-chairs of the Trump transition effort.
Harris's most important donors
There has been significant consolidation in the world of Democratic megadonors since 2020, as there are few new big players like Sam Bankman-Fried, who stormed into Democratic politics in 2022 and was convicted of fraud and related crimes in 2023.
But President Biden's decision to drop out of the race and the Democrats' quick endorsement of Ms. Harris has energized some female donors -- people who were not particularly active in the Biden campaign, but may be in a Harris campaign.
Here are the people who matter most.
Reid Hoffman
Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn, has transformed himself into a relentless political creature since Mr. Trump's election in 2016, at one point telling other donors during the 2020 campaign that he would step out of a board meeting if American politics demanded it.
In addition to being one of the country's top Democratic donors, Mr. Hoffman has also emerged as a confidant to other wealthy Democrats in Silicon Valley looking to make political donations.
George and Alex Soros
George Soros has long been making donations to support Democrats.
What's new is that there is a different Mr. Soros also engaged in giving: Alex, Mr. Soros's son. Alex Soros is equally, if not more, interested in American politics than his father is. Alex Soros is engaged to Huma Abedin, the longtime adviser to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
The Soros family tends to be in the old guard of Democratic big-money politics: He is a supporter of more establishment-minded groups, and likes to fund organizations that try to build change over the long term.
Mike Bloomberg
"Where's Mike?" is a question that Democrats routinely ask around this time of year. Mr. Bloomberg, the entrepreneur and former mayor of New York City, has had a frosty relationship with Mr. Biden and has not invested as much as he usually does in the 2024 presidential election yet.
But he tends to be a very late donor, often funding a final-ditch effort that isn't obvious by summertime.
Dustin Moskovitz
Dustin Moskovitz may be the only person on this list who has not yet donated significantly to support Ms. Harris. But Mr. Moskovitz, the biggest donor in the charitable movement known as effective altruism, is widely expected to cut a major check in the closing months of this race to Future Forward, the Democratic group that he seeded with tens of millions of dollars in 2020.
Mr. Moskovitz, one of the founders of Facebook, is not well-known outside of Silicon Valley, but he has a team of political advisers who wield significant influence in donor circles.
Mr. Moskovitz has in recent months become one of Silicon Valley's leading anti-Musk voices and expressed alarm about the rightward shift of some in the tech community.
Jeffrey Katzenberg
Jeffrey Katzenberg, the former chairman of Walt Disney Studios, is not as wealthy as the other people on this list, but his influence comes from his access to Ms. Harris's campaign. Mr. Katzenberg, an extraordinary political fund-raiser in Hollywood for decades, became one of Mr. Biden's national campaign co-chairs and has remained in that role with Ms. Harris now leading the ticket.
Photograph This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Fund raising; Social networks; Political parties; Political conventions; Political campaigns; Political action committees--PAC; Donations; Presidential elections; Political finance; Campaign contributions

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Donations

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Musk, Elon; Moskovitz, Dustin; Katzenberg, Jeffrey; McMahon, Linda

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/01/us/elections/democratic-republican-political-donors.html

Title: Who Are the Biggest Donors To Trump and Harris?:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 2, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099360616

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/who-are-biggest-donors-trump-harris/docview/3099360616/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Looking for Advice on L.G.B.T.Q. Travel to Florida? Don't Ask Florida.: [National Desk]

Author: Mzezewa, Tariro

Publication info: Mzezewa, Tariro. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-advice-on-l-g-b-t-q-travel-florida-dont/docview/3099220474/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For years, L.G.B.T.Q. people planning a trip to Florida could turn to the official website for Visit Florida, the state's tourism marketing organization, for resources on where to go, what to eat and where to stay. While there are other resources for queer travelers, the site offered information about L.G.B.T.Q.-owned businesses that visitors could patronize as well as activities "appealing to a gay community looking for a sense of belonging and acceptance," a page on the site once read.
But sometime in the past few months, Visit Florida -- a private-public, nonprofit partnership created by the Florida Legislature in 1996 -- quietly took down pages with information for L.G.B.T.Q. travelers. Although no one has been able to pinpoint exactly when the pages were removed, NBC first reported on their removal on Aug. 19 and said it had happened sometime this summer. Some residents, activists and people in the local tourism industry said that erasing the pages sends the message that L.G.B.T.Q. travelers aren't welcome in the state.
Visit Florida and the office of Ron DeSantis, the governor of Florida, did not respond to numerous requests for comment.
At a news conference on Wednesday, a day after this article was published online, Mr. DeSantis said he only learned about the removal of the L.G.B.T.Q. travel pages after they had been taken down. "Our view as a state is we are the best place to visit, we're welcome to all, but we're not going to be segregating people by these different characteristics," he said. "That's not how we've done business in any of the things that we've done."
And Dana Young, Visit Florida's chief executive and president, told ABC that the pages were taken down to better reflect the state's policies. "It's fairly simple," she said. "Visit Florida is a taxpayer funded organization," and added that the organization's "marketing strategy, our materials and our content must align with the state."
Nadine Smith, the executive director of Equality Florida, an L.G.B.T.Q. advocacy group said, "There's a reason these pages existed in the first place." Their purpose is "to roll out the welcome mat and say, 'Hey, you know what? Your family is going to be safe and comfortable here,"' "So if you take away that welcome mat, the only message that you can deliver is 'We do not want you to feel safe and welcome you."'
Ms. Smith is one of many who feel that the removal of the pages is a continuation of the hostile policies facing L.G.B.T.Q. people in the state in recent years. It comes two years after Mr. DeSantis signed what opponents called "Don't Say Gay" legislation, limiting what teachers can say about gender and sexuality.
Like many destination marketing organizations across the country, Visit Florida receives state funding, which the governor signs off on. (Mr. DeSantis granted Visit Florida $ 80 million for its 2024-25 fiscal year, which the organization uses for marketing.)
"The thing that's most interesting about this is that it was done quietly," Ms. Smith said.
In April 2023, Ms. Smith's organization, along with the L.G.B.T.Q.-focused Human Rights Campaign and the N.A.A.C.P., warned travelers to reconsider going to Florida because they felt that Mr. DeSantis's policies were hostile toward L.G.B.T.Q. people, immigrants and people of color.
Colin Lienhard, a gay architect and designer who lives in Miami, said that he had felt a shift in people's openness toward gay people, even in liberal Miami, and so he wasn't surprised by the removal of the pages. The effort to hide information that could be helpful feels like a continuation of what he feels has become normal in Florida: asking L.G.B.T.Q. people to be silent. "It's another example of them trying to erase that we are here," he said.
For years, L.G.B.T.Q. travelers have flocked to cities and towns like St. Petersburg, Key West and Sarasota, which have been welcoming to them.
Local tourism marketing organizations have often encouraged diverse travelers. For instance, in 2022, Visit Lauderdale, which promotes the Greater Fort Lauderdale area to the world, released a campaign called "Everyone Under the Sun." At the time, the agency's chief executive and president, Stacy Ritter, said the goal was to ensure that all visitors knew they were welcome.
"Our diversity is our strength, and we are proudly telling this story to the world," she said in a statement announcing the campaign.
But local marketing organizations like Visit Lauderdale rely on Visit Florida, the state site, as a valuable entry point. Last week, as news of the removal of Visit Florida's L.G.B.T.Q. pages spread, Ms. Ritter reiterated that Fort Lauderdale continued to value diversity.
"While Visit Florida removes its L.G.B.T.Q.+ page from its website, Visit Lauderdale values, respects and sees those from marginalized communities and commits to providing them a welcoming and inclusive experience," she wrote on LinkedIn on Aug. 20.
When Rob Dougherty, the executive director for the Key West Business Guild, a nonprofit that promotes Key West to L.G.B.T.Q. travelers, first heard about the removal of the pages last week, he reached out to the leaders of Visit Florida because he hoped the removal had been a mistake or a glitch. After his questions went unanswered for days, he expressed his frustration on social media.
"The silence is troubling," he wrote on the Gay Key West Facebook page. He reminded the followers of that page that his organization's goals of supporting L.G.B.T.Q. people living in and visiting Key West had not changed, even if the state's stance seemingly had. In a phone call, he said it felt important to say something about the removal.
"I don't want to sound reactionary," he said, "but I feel like if we don't respond, then are we allowing the next step? What will be erased next?"
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2024 .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A22.

Subject: Marketing; Travel; Tourism; Social networks; Nonprofit organizations; LGBTQ community

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks

Location: Florida; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/27/travel/florida-lgbtq-travel.html

Title: Looking for Advice on L.G.B.T.Q. Travel to Florida? Don't Ask Florida.:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 1, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099220474

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/looking-advice-on-l-g-b-t-q-travel-florida-dont/docview/3099220474/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dallas Officer Is Shot Dead While Parked In Patrol Car: [National Desk]

Author: Selig, Kate

Publication info: Selig, Kate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dallas-officer-is-shot-dead-while-parked-patrol/docview/3099220423/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Two other officers were also shot, and one of them remains hospitalized. After a pursuit, the suspect was killed by the police, authorities said.
A police officer in Dallas was fatally shot on Thursday night in what officials described as a premeditated execution.
The officer, Darron Burks, 46, was parked in his patrol vehicle in the Oak Cliff section of the city, southwest of downtown, at around 10 p.m. during a break between assignments when a man approached him on the driver's side. The man, who officials said appeared to record the encounter on his cellphone, briefly spoke to Officer Burks, then pulled out a handgun and shot him dead.
Two other officers were shot by the suspect while they were checking on Officer Burks, who had not responded to a dispatcher's attempt to contact him, officials said. Senior Corporal Jamie Farmer, who was shot in the leg, has been released from the hospital. Senior Corporal Karissa David, who was shot in the face, remains in critical but stable condition.
The suspect, identified by officials as Corey Cobb-Bey, 30, fled the scene. After officers pursued him onto an expressway, he got out of his vehicle with a gun, approached the officers and pointed his weapon, the police said. Six officers then fired, fatally shooting him. It was unclear on Saturday what might have motivated the attack.
At a news conference on Friday, Eddie Garcia, the Dallas police chief, said the information the force gathered made it clear that Officer Burks was killed in a targeted attack. "I know that the word 'ambush' has been thrown around in the last 24 hours or so," he said. "That's not what happened here. Officer Burks was executed."
For some residents, the brutal manner in which the police said Officer Burks was killed called to mind a 2016 shooting, when a heavily armed sniper gunned down five officers in downtown Dallas during a protest against fatal police shootings. That shooting remains the deadliest single attack on law enforcement since Sept. 11.
"I hate that it had to happen again," said Taylor Toynes, the founder of For Oak Cliff, the community center where Officer Burks was parked before he was killed.
Officer Burks was a former high school math teacher who had graduated from the police academy in December. He was an alumnus of Paul Quinn College, a historically Black Methodist school in Dallas, according to his page on LinkedIn. There, he played football and served as the president of his fraternity, Omega Psi Phi.
On social media, friends from various stages of his life -- including fraternity brothers, football teammates, fellow teachers, former students and classmates -- shared their grief. They described him as a man who was dedicated to making a difference in his community and who was proud to have become a police officer.
City flags in Dallas were flown at half-staff on Friday, and hundreds of people gathered for a candlelight vigil at the community center where Officer Burks was killed. Officials including Gov. Greg Abbott and Mayor Eric Johnson of Dallas issued statements of support.
"Dallas has lost a hero," Mr. Johnson said in his statement.
Mr. Cobb-Bey had expressed problems online with his personal and professional life, and he made a post on Thursday indicating that an "event" was happening on Friday, Chief Garcia said.
In a video that Mr. Cobb-Bey posted to one of his social media accounts earlier this week, he approached officers in an unmarked, parked vehicle and asked, "Is there any problem, officers?"
In some of his other posts, he described himself as a "Moorish American National" and quoted from the holy book of the Moorish Science Temple of America, an obscure religious organization.
Ladarrian Brooks, 39, who identified himself as Mr. Cobb-Bey's brother, said the news of the shooting and his brother's death came as a shock to the family.
Mr. Brooks said he had been in regular contact with Mr. Cobb-Bey and had seen him in person as recently as Aug. 21. At that time, he said, nothing seemed off.
"This is a very unfortunate situation, and we pray for all the best for everyone that was involved," he said.
Photograph Darron Burks, 46, was killed on Thursday. The suspect, who fled the scene, was fatally shot. This article appeared in print on page A22.

Subject: Shootings; Social networks; Police; Murders & murder attempts

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Oak Cliff Texas

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/31/us/dallas-police-office-darron-burks-killed.html

Title: Dallas Officer Is Shot Dead While Parked In Patrol Car:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 1, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099220423

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dallas-officer-is-shot-dead-while-parked-patrol/docview/3099220423/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Big Donors Ask Harris to Ditch Tax on Richest: [National Desk]

Author: Duehren, Andrew; Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Duehren, Andrew; Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-donors-ask-harris-ditch-tax-on-richest/docview/3098976690/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Vice President Kamala Harris's fund-raising has benefited from a surge of interest from Silicon Valley and Wall Street.
Donors to Vice President Kamala Harris's campaign are pushing her to reconsider supporting a proposed tax on the wealthiest Americans, as some Wall Street and Silicon Valley executives try to reshape the Democratic nominee's governing agenda.
Ms. Harris's campaign last week said she supported the tax increases included in President Biden's latest White House budget proposal. One of those plans would require Americans worth at least $ 100 million to pay taxes on investment gains even if they have not sold the stocks, bonds or other assets that have appreciated.
Under the plan, those Americans would owe a 25 percent tax on a combination of their regular income, like wages, and so-called unrealized gains. The so-called billionaire minimum income tax could create hefty tax bills for wealthy individuals who derive much of their wealth from the stocks and other assets they own.
The proposal has hit a nerve with some of the donors who have flocked to supporting Ms. Harris after Mr. Biden dropped out of the presidential race, according to seven people familiar with the conversations.
Some have directed their complaints to the campaign's advisers and top allies in the business community who are perceived to be in her inner circle. At least one top donor close to Ms. Harris has raised the issue with her in a private conversation, encouraging her to instead tax the ability of the ultrawealthy to borrow against their wealth.
Allies and staff of Ms. Harris have defended the plan to business leaders in private conversations, explaining that the tax would apply to only a small slice of wealthy Americans and could be delayed for investments that are not easily sold, according to the people familiar with the conversations.
Still, some donors close to Ms. Harris do not believe she is that committed to the idea. "In my interactions with them, the key is she focuses on her values and is not an ideologue about any particular program," Mark Cuban, a billionaire and the former principal owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team, said in an interview. "From what I've been told, everything is on the table, nothing's been decided yet."
A campaign adviser said Ms. Harris supported the billionaires minimum tax but was open to alternative ways for substantially raising taxes on ultrawealthy Americans. Charles Kretchmer Lutvak, a spokesman for the Harris campaign, said in a statement that Ms. Harris believed in creating a more fair tax system.
"Vice President Harris believes billionaires and large corporations should pay their fair share in taxes, like everyone else," he said. "They should have to pay a minimum tax rate because it's not right that they pay a lower income tax rate than a teacher or firefighter."
Aaron Levie, the chief executive of the cloud-storage company Box, who has put $ 30,000 into her campaign and said he plans to give more, said he and other Silicon Valley leaders he had spoken with saw the proposal as "quite punitive."
"There's optimism that this can't possibly be real," Mr. Levie said. "Most people are waiting to hear from the Harris campaign. Is this a real proposal that is actually being pushed for -- or was this something that was inherited from Biden?"
The pushback comes amid growing optimism among lobbyists and donors that Ms. Harris is adopting a friendlier approach to business concerns than Mr. Biden. Some have said privately that they feel that Ms. Harris's policy positions are less set in stone than Mr. Biden's were, allowing for outside pressure to be more effective.
In her speech at the Democratic National Convention last week, Ms. Harris said she would create an "opportunity economy" and provide support to entrepreneurs and "founders," a word in a carefully constructed speech that some attendees saw as targeted toward assuaging wealthy business leaders in Silicon Valley.
"She said founders. I'm good," Mr. Levie joked on social media during her speech.
Ms. Harris once represented Silicon Valley as a senator from California, and her campaign has been intentional in its opening weeks about delegating staff to tend to the area in a way that Mr. Biden did not. The campaign has encouraged the formation of affinity groups, such as VCs for Kamala, and has hired multiple Bay Area-based fund-raisers, including Stefanie Roumeliotes, a San Francisco political operative, with stronger ties to lure in major tech givers. Ms. Roumeliotes has been at work to set up a group, Tech for Harris, that is meant to recapture some of the Obama-era enthusiasm from billionaires in Silicon Valley.
Ms. Harris has also taken steps to better appeal to the crypto community, which has grown significantly more political and right-wing during the Biden presidency, and her campaign team has met with cryptocurrency executives, according to a person familiar with the conversations.
Those efforts have helped fuel a gigantic fund-raising surge that has netted the Harris campaign at least $ 540 million in the weeks since she came to the top of the ticket.
The billionaire minimum income tax could be particularly costly for ultrarich tech executives who derive their wealth from owning slices of companies they helped start. Rather than selling their shares of companies, triggering taxes, those Americans can take out tax-free loans backed by the stock they own to finance their lifestyles.
The VCs for Kamala group -- which includes Reid Hoffman, a founder of LinkedIn; Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures; Ron Conway, a well-known investor; and the billionaire Chris Sacca -- surveyed its members about various public policy issues. Roughly 75 percent of respondents agreed with the statement "taxing unrealized capital gains will stifle innovation," according to a document viewed by The New York Times. The survey otherwise showed support for Ms. Harris's agenda.
Investment income has long received preferential tax treatment in the United States, and taxing appreciation on unsold assets would represent a fundamental change in the tax code. Progressive Democrats see the ability of wealthy Americans to pay no tax on their unrealized capital gains as an unfair loophole, and Mr. Biden's budget includes several other ideas that would change how investments are taxed.
Some progressives have so far said they are unworried about signs that Ms. Harris is adopting more moderate rhetoric about economic issues, maintaining that she has been a key partner in crafting Mr. Biden's agenda.
The ambitious tax proposal would face an uphill climb on Capitol Hill, where Republicans and some Democrats are skeptical of changing how capital gains are taxed. That dynamic has helped ease some of the concerns on Wall Street about the idea, said Charles Myers, a fund-raiser for Ms. Harris and the chairman and founder of Signum Global Advisors.
"In my world, yes, I do hear about it and there is concern," he said. "I think almost every person who would raise it as a concern understands that it would never pass Congress even if it's a Democratic sweep."
Mr. Myers said he had also heard concerns about some of the other tax proposals included in Mr. Biden's budget, including raising the corporate rate to 28 percent from 21 percent and quadrupling a tax on stock buybacks to 4 percent from 1 percent. He expects that moderate Democrats in the Senate could sink some of those ideas, too.
Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, who studies corporate leadership at the Yale School of Management, said he had raised issues about taxing unrealized capital gains with members of Ms. Harris's campaign team. He said the campaign did not want to publicly distance itself from the idea. "They don't want to antagonize the populist support they need to get through the elections and make a big issue of it," he said.
Those ideas and others will come into play next year, when Washington takes a fresh look at the tax code. Many of the tax cuts Mr. Trump signed into law in 2017 are set to expire after next year, and many Democrats want to both raise taxes on high earners and corporations and also extend tax cuts for middle-class Americans. Imposing the 25 percent minimum tax on Americans worth more than $ 100 million could raise roughly $ 500 billion in tax revenue over a decade, according to the Treasury Department.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A1, A13.

Subject: Fund raising; Tax rates; Income taxes; Executives; Wealth; Speeches; Leadership; Presidential elections; Tax cuts; Capital gains; Tax increases

Business indexing term: Subject: Tax rates Income taxes Executives Wealth Leadership Tax cuts Capital gains Tax increases

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/29/us/politics/donors-harris-tax-ultrawealthy.html

Title: Big Donors Ask Harris to Ditch Tax on Richest:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 31, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3098976690

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-donors-ask-harris-ditch-tax-on-richest/docview/3098976690/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Museum Roiled By Accusations Of Racist Ad Has New Chief: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Bahr, Sarah

Publication info: Bahr, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/museum-roiled-accusations-racist-ad-has-new-chief/docview/3098046599/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Le Monte Booker will be the institution's third leader in four years. The previous president and chief executive left last year after just over a year on the job.
The Indianapolis Museum of Art is getting its third leader in four years as it continues to deal with the fallout from a racially insensitive job posting that led to its longtime leader's departure in 2021.
Newfields, whose campus includes the museum, announced on Monday that Le Monte G. Booker Sr., the chief financial officer of Chicago's Field Museum, would serve as its next president and chief executive. Booker replaces Colette Pierce Burnette, the first Black woman in the role, who departed last November for unclear reasons after just over a year on the job.
In a statement, Booker called Newfields "an outstanding example of a cornerstone cultural institution," adding that he looked forward to working with the board and staff "to continue to meet the mission of enriching lives through exceptional experiences with art and nature."
Neither the museum nor Burnette -- who replaced the museum's previous leader, Charles L. Venable, who resigned in 2021 after the controversy over the job posting -- have provided a reason for her departure.
The months after Burnette's exit were followed by public protests outside the museum, as dozens of people questioned Newfields's commitment to the diversity and inclusion promises it had made after the job posting and demanded her reinstatement. Five members of the institution's board of trustees and four members of the volunteer-based board of governors, which is focused on community advocacy and has no official decision-making authority, resigned.
Michael Kubacki, the chairman of the local Lake City Bank and a former board member, had been serving as the interim president and chief executive of Newfields. Kubacki and Venable are both white.
Booker takes the reins at the museum, Indiana's largest and most influential art institution, at a time of rebuilding and outreach to Black artists begun by Burnette, who was hired as part of Newfields's response to the furor.
It also recently appointed a new director, Belinda Tate, a Black woman who was previously the executive director of the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts in Michigan. The museum had taken steps like establishing a $ 20 million fund to buy art from marginalized groups, increasing its board's diversity and holding antiracism training.
Newfields, located near both wealthy, largely white neighborhoods and poorer ones with a larger proportion of Black residents, apologized in 2021 when its online job posting for a museum director said it was seeking a candidate who would diversify the institution while maintaining its "traditional, core, white art audience."
Booker, who Newfields said was chosen from more than 200 applicants, earned a master's degree in business administration from the Keller Graduate School of Management of DeVry University in Lisle, Ill., as well as a bachelor's degree in accounting and business management from DePaul University in Chicago, according to his LinkedIn profile.
As the chief financial officer at the Field Museum, a role he has held for the last nine years, Booker oversaw facilities planning and operations, grants administration and institutional construction projects, according to Newfields. Booker previously was the chief financial officer at several nonprofit organizations, including Easter Seals and the American Academy of Pediatrics.
Darrianne Christian, the chairwoman of the Newfields board of trustees, said in a statement on Monday that Booker "possesses the right mind-set, temperament, aptitude and leadership skills needed for this role."
"Mr. Booker stood out not only for meeting all of our initial search criteria, but also for bringing fresh perspectives we hadn't previously considered to the process," she added. "His extensive museum experience gives him a comprehensive understanding of how institutions like Newfields need to operate to thrive."
Booker will start at Newfields in late October.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page C4.

Subject: Leadership; Facilities planning; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Art galleries & museums

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Facilities planning Art galleries & museums

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/26/arts/design/indianapolis-museum-le-monte-booker.html

Title: Museum Roiled By Accusations Of Racist Ad Has New Chief:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 29, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3098046599

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/museum-roiled-accusations-racist-ad-has-new-chief/docview/3098046599/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright Ne w York Times Company Aug 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Legal Prodigy Harris Needs on Her Team: [Op-Ed]

Author: Goldberg, Michelle

Publication info: Goldberg, Michelle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legal-prodigy-harris-needs-on-her-team/docview/3096605880/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Until about a week ago, a big question in Democratic politics was whether a potential President Kamala Harris would keep Lina Khan -- the pathbreaking young lawyer loved by progressives and loathed by some of Harris's billionaire donors -- as chair of the Federal Trade Commission, the agency that enforces antimonopoly law.
Some wealthy Harris backers have called for Khan's replacement, including the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who donated $ 10 million to a Democratic super PAC this year. On the financial news network CNBC, Barry Diller, chair of IAC and Expedia Group, said he'd lobby Harris to get rid of Khan, whom he called a "dope." He later apologized for the insult, but not the promise to use his influence against her.
Because Harris's economic views seemed fuzzy and her ties to Silicon Valley are strong, some on the left worried she might give in to the pressure. Those fears were heightened when Gov. Wes Moore of Maryland, a close ally of the vice president, was asked on CNBC about jettisoning Khan, and suggested that Harris might break from President Biden's aggressive approach to antitrust. "There are going to be different dynamics that are going to require different philosophies," said Moore.
But it increasingly looks as if anti-Khan forces might be disappointed. As the broad outlines of Harris's economic approach have emerged over the last week, it seems at least as populist as Biden's.
Her plan to combat price gouging features an aggressive role for the F.T.C. At the Democratic convention, especially on the opening night, "corporate greed" was a scourge, and speaker after speaker sought to link "freedom," the central theme of Harris's campaign, to programs that protect the middle class from the depredations of concentrated wealth. Even the ordinarily pro-business secretary of commerce, Gina Raimondo, blasted "monopolies that crush workers and small businesses and start-ups." And as Lauren Feiner pointed out in The Verge, the Democratic platform mentions "competition" 18 times, twice as often as it did four years ago, and emphasized policies that Khan has been closely involved with. Suddenly, Khan seems more likely to be a linchpin of a potential Harris presidency than a casualty of it.
To grasp why she matters so much, you have to understand how Khan, a 35-year-old legal wunderkind, became both so revered and so abhorred. Khan is a heroine to many on the left; Pramila Jayapal, chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, told me that Khan is her caucus's favorite guest speaker. But she's also respected by many populist conservatives, including Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri, Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida and the vice-presidential candidate JD Vance, who called her "one of the few people in the Biden administration that I think is doing a pretty good job." What brings Khan's fans together is suspicion of Big Business, Big Finance and Big Tech, even if the reason for their suspicion differs.
"She's been obviously a strong, committed person for consumers in ways that we've rarely seen," Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, told me at the Democratic National Convention. "Too often, I think consumers were often shoved aside by many administrations."
Khan's fame dates to her time in law school, when a paper she wrote, "Amazon's Antitrust Paradox," helped revolutionize her field's approach to technology behemoths. As F.T.C. chair, she's focused on the manifold ways that big corporations and big finance abuse individuals. "How people experience power in their day-to-day lives is usually in their economic relationships, right?" she told me last week, when we met in the F.T.C.'s Manhattan offices. "If you're being coerced and bullied in these economic relationships, that's going to affect, really fundamentally, whether you do or don't feel free in our country."
This sort of bullying is most clear when companies stifle competition to raise prices. One of Khan's big wins came after her office challenged so-called junk patents -- an underhanded method used by pharmaceutical companies to fend off the creation of generics -- leading the price of some inhalers to fall to $ 35 from hundreds of dollars. But she's also working to fight corporate coercion in other ways. Under Khan, the F.T.C. moved to ban the use of noncompete agreements for most employees, challenging a practice that prevents workers from taking jobs at rival companies. (A judge appointed by President Donald Trump enjoined enforcement of the ban this week.) She's brought lawsuits against data brokers trafficking in geolocation data, which red-state prosecutors could use to track women going to abortion clinics.
Before she went to law school, Khan worked as a business journalist; she was introduced to antitrust while investigating monopoly practices in the poultry industry. Today, she brings reportorial skills to her work at the F.T.C. "One thing that's been a big focus of my time at the agency is just wanting to make sure -- and this goes back to my time as a journalist as well -- that we're actually understanding the reality of how markets are working, and not just relying on models and theories and assumptions that are detached from that reality," she said.
Khan travels around the country holding listening sessions to make sure she's hearing voices that sometimes get lost in policymaking. She described a meeting she held in Nevada last fall about a proposed merger between the grocery chains Albertsons and Kroger, which the F.T.C. is fighting. "One person actually brought the sale papers from these two stores and said, 'Look, right now they're competing on the price of milk, they're competing on the price of strawberries,"' she recalled. If that competition disappears, the man told her, "I'm going to have to start choosing, do I buy milk or do I buy strawberries?"
The vice president's pledge to combat price gouging, an effort the F.T.C. would be central to, has elicited caterwauling from some economic commentators, who see in it the specter of price controls. Those fears seem overwrought; as Axios, hardly a left-wing website, points out, "If banning price gouging is communist, then the U.S. went Marxist long ago. Most of us live in states that already have bans in place."
But as Casey, a sponsor of Senate legislation to counter price gouging, said, "The only part of our government that's in the business of taking action against price gouging are our state attorneys general, and they have limited budgets." His bill, which Harris endorsed, would even the playing field a bit by giving the F.T.C. new powers and $ 1 billion in new funding to exercise them.
Of course, even though Khan has a few Republican fans, it's far from clear that such a law could ever pass. But legislative gridlock will make it only more important for a Harris administration to have regulators who can advance her economic agenda as forcefully as they can, even within the constraints of Supreme Court decisions that regularly side with corporations over administrative agencies. American politics is full of choke points protecting the rich and powerful. To get anything done, Harris will need people for whom bureaucratic audacity isn't a contradiction in terms.
To Khan, as I suspect to Harris, price gouging means more than just corporations raising prices during emergencies. Rather, it's shorthand for a whole range of exploitative practices that leave consumers feeling taken advantage of. "Oftentimes, the way people are taught about prices is it's just the result of supply and demand," she said. "These natural forces. And I think over the last few years in particular, people have started picking up on the fact that actually there are a whole bunch of other factors that can affect pricing."
That can mean outright collusion, but it can also mean things like junk fees and subscription traps. (Under Khan, the F.T.C. has proposed a rule that companies must make it as easy to cancel a subscription as it is to sign up for one.) "I view the price-gouging conversation as an opening to talk about that broader set of corporate tactics," said Khan.
The fight against those tactics could be an important part of a Harris presidency. "Kamala Harris can't be bought, and she can't be bossed around," said Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts onstage at the Democratic National Convention on Thursday night. If she's right, Khan's job should be safe.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WURM/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page SR3.

Subject: Political conventions; Antitrust; Law schools; Bullying; Price gouging; Presidential elections; Monopolies; Populism; Wage & price controls

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Price gouging Monopolies Wage & price controls

People: Harris, Kamala; Khan, Lina M

Company / organization: Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/23/opinion/lina-khan-antitrust-harris.html

Title: The Legal Prodigy Harris Needs on Her Team:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 25, 2024

column: Helle Goldberg

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3096605880

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/legal-prodigy-harris-needs-on-her-team/docview/3096605880/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Relevance of a Real Estate Agent Is on the Table: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Callimachi, Rukmini

Publication info: Callimachi, Rukmini. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/relevance-real-estate-agent-is-on-table/docview/3096605807/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Under new rules, potential buyers may now be responsible for paying their agent's commission. Some now question the need for that agent.
Less than two months ago, Joanne Y. Cleaver sold her home in a suburb of Charlotte for $ 725,000 in an unusual way: Facebook Marketplace.
She did not hire a real estate agent, lining up a lawyer instead to do the closing, and she declined to pay a commission to the buyer's agent -- a standard practice of the industry which for decades has put the burden of commissions of around 5 or 6 percent of the home's sales price on the seller, though the fees were split between agents for the buyer and the seller. Ms. Cleaver, 66, estimates that she saved $ 25,000 in real estate fees, money that she pocketed.
Changes that alter the way real estate commissions are advertised and paid went into effect nationwide in August, and some people are touting the "death of the real estate agent." Like Ms. Cleaver, some people are proposing that home buyers simply pay a flat fee to a lawyer to draw up the paperwork. No agent needed.
It's a scenario that many real estate agents feared would be the consequence of a lawsuit brought against the National Association of Realtors by a group of homeowners who accused the powerful industry group of creating an unfair collusion between the seller and the buyer's agents. For decades, fee paid to the representative for the buyer came out of the proceeds paid by the seller to their agent.
Now the two sides have been uncoupled, and people like Ms. Cleaver are going at it alone.
Though sellers can continue to pay for the buyer's commission, it's possible that some sellers may not, leaving the buyer responsible for a share of the commission. It's an extra cost that could be especially burdensome for first-time buyers, who are already scraping together the down payment and the closing costs just to afford a home at a time when the cost of housing has hit a record high.
And unlike closing costs, which can be built into the loan, there is currently no system in place for lenders to also wrap the commission into the loan. That means that some first-time buyers may try to buy the home with no agent.
But real estate professionals warn that the list of things that can go wrong in a property transaction is long, and the downside if they do go wrong is steep and financially painful, from discovering mold to finding a faulty foundation or a termite infestation -- all things that should be flagged on an inspection report, but sometimes aren't detected.
Beyond potential problems with the home itself is the cobweb of regulations and paperwork that both buyers and sellers need to navigate, as well as the growing problem of title and wire fraud.
Ms. Cleaver is the first to point out that she has a big leg up on most people: As the former real estate editor of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel and the author of a book on real estate, she knows more about real estate than most. "I am not a rookie," Ms. Cleaver said.
Here are some issues to consider before deciding to go it alone:
What Is That?
During the inspection of the three-bedroom she was hoping to buy in Moreno Valley, Calif., Brenda Cea, a software engineer, discovered that there was a damp spot on the ceiling.
The seller initially refused to allow a roofer to check the property, claiming that the inspector had already done a walk-through. Ms. Cea's agent insisted and the roofer discovered that a piece of the roof was cracked.
"Me personally, I strongly needed an agent. It was my first time ever just purchasing any property or anything big like that," said Ms. Cea, 29, who closed on the house in the low $ 500,000s.
Before she moved in this spring, she also discovered that the seller had absconded with the curtain rods. With the help of her agent Elena Flores of eXp Realty of Southern California, Ms. Cea forced the seller to pay for the roof repairs and to give her a $ 500 credit for the rods.
More Negotiation
Leaks, mold, pests, including termites, foundation problems and septic issues are among the more difficult to untangle, especially if the buyer is on a tight timeline.
Earlier this year, Brent Wofford, a real estate agent, helped a buyer who was living in Colorado negotiate the purchase of her new home in Arizona.
Her home in Colorado had already been sold, when they discovered a major issue with the septic tank on the property.
"All of her personal belongings were in a moving truck," Mr. Wofford said, and the buyer was facing a $ 1,000-a-day storage fee if her furniture was not dropped off at the appointed time.
Mr. Wofford negotiated that the seller would repair the septic system. Next, he said he negotiated an "escrow hold back," where the lender agreed to close, on the condition that the repairs be completed afterward. The cost of the repairs: $ 15,000.
If You Go It Alone, How Do You Do It?
When her daughter unexpectedly moved overseas taking her four children with her, Ms. Cleaver was suddenly filled with sadness at the sandbox and play area she had set up in her backyard for her grandchildren.
She decided to sell the sandbox and toys online -- a process that allowed her to familiarize herself with the fraud that proliferates on Facebook Marketplace. After that, she sold a piece from Restoration Hardware which had cost her $ 8,000, carefully vetting the buyer by doing a reverse address search and insisting they pay cash -- she netted just under $ 4,000.
Finally, she listed her home on Facebook. She vetted each potential buyer through reverse address searches and by checking their LinkedIn profiles. She used the same closing lawyer she had used to buy the house, who made sure that the buyer's money was moved into an escrow account.
She admits that her hand was over her heart as she waited for the sale to close earlier this summer. It went through and she now lives in a condo in New Hampshire in a retirement community.
Even as she jokes that she wants her obituary to say that she saved $ 25,000 by not paying a real estate commission, she is also the first to caution: "I would never recommend a very first-time buyer do it on their own."
Photograph Eduardo Machado, an associate agent with Redfin, placing a sign advertising an open house for a condo in Washington. People are now wondering whether they can go without a buyer's agent to avoid paying a commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE KIEHART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE6.

Subject: Purchasing; Homeowners; Fees & charges

Location: Colorado; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 516210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/24/realestate/do-need-realtor-buy-house.html

Title: The Relevance of a Real Estate Agent Is on the Table:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 25, 2024

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3096605807

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/relevance-real-estate-agent-is-on-table/docview/3096605807/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Look at Executives in Yacht Sinking: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Michael J. De La Merced

Publication info: Michael J. De La Merced. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/look-at-executives-yacht-sinking/docview/3096466173/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The two business figures, both associates of the tech mogul, went missing after the superyacht they were on sank off the coast of Sicily.
The corporate world reeled this week after a superyacht carrying the British software mogul Mike Lynch, his family and associates, and others sank on Monday during a violent storm off the coast of Sicily.
Of the 22 people on the yacht, 15 were rescued and seven bodies were recovered, including that of Mr. Lynch, an official in the Italian city of Palermo confirmed. The bodies of two other prominent business figures -- Christopher J. Morvillo, a top white-collar defense lawyer, and Jonathan Bloomer, the chairman of Morgan Stanley International -- were among those recovered.
Others who were missing but whose bodies have now been recovered are Hannah Lynch, Mr. Lynch's 18-year-old daughter; Mr. Morvillo's wife, Neda Morvillo; and Mr. Bloomer's wife, Judy Bloomer. The body of the ship's cook, Recaldo Thomas, was recovered on Monday. Christopher Morvillo
Mr. Morvillo, 59, was a partner at Clifford Chance, the international law firm. He was a scion of a prominent family of New York litigators: His father, Robert, was a top federal prosecutor in New York turned star white-collar defense lawyer, whose clients included Martha Stewart. His brothers and uncle also practice law.
Mr. Morvillo followed in his father's footsteps, first becoming a federal prosecutor in New York, whose cases included several tied to the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and the successful conviction of Lynne Stewart, a lawyer known for representing terrorists.
In 2005, he went to work for his father's firm, now known as Morvillo Abramowitz Grand Iason & Anello, where he worked alongside his brothers. Mr. Morvillo left in 2011 to join Clifford Chance as a partner. A year later, he began representing Mr. Lynch, who had been accused of deceiving Hewlett-Packard after it acquired his software company, Autonomy.
So started his long association with Mr. Lynch, as the accusations against the British executive led to a nearly 13-year legal battle on two continents. Mr. Lynch was charged with fraud by prosecutors in San Francisco, found liable in a lawsuit filed by HP in Britain and extradited to the United States last year, ahead of his criminal trial there.
"It's covered one-third of my career," Mr. Morvillo told the podcast "For the Defense" in an episode that aired this month, referring to the case. "It has been a constant presence in my life."
Mr. Lynch was acquitted by a federal jury in June. In a LinkedIn post published shortly afterward, Mr. Morvillo celebrated the verdict, concluding the message with "And they all lived happily ever after ...."
Clifford Chance said in a statement on Thursday, "We are heartbroken at the tragic passing of our partner Christopher Morvillo and his wife, Neda."
Jonathan Bloomer
Mr. Bloomer, 70, was a British financial services executive who, over the course of decades, became a fixture of the London insurance sector.
After starting at the now-defunct accounting firm Arthur Andersen, where he became a partner, Mr. Bloomer joined the insurer Prudential (no relation to the American insurance provider Prudential Financial) as chief financial officer. Mr. Bloomer became chief executive in 2000.
He stepped down five years later, after having drawn criticism from investors for cutting the insurer's dividend, making a failed bid for a rival and raising money after saying such a move was unnecessary.
Mr. Bloomer took on other prominent business roles, including chairman of several British companies. He also joined the board of Autonomy, where he headed the audit committee. That role later led to his testifying this year at Mr. Lynch's criminal trial, where he told the jury that the technology executive did not play a role in the company's day-to-day operations.
In 2018, Mr. Bloomer became chairman of Morgan Stanley International, the Wall Street bank's European arm, and last year was named chairman of Hiscox, a British insurer.
"We are deeply saddened by this tragic news," Ted Pick, Morgan Stanley's chief executive, said in a statement on Thursday. "Jonathan's leadership and experience helped the firm manage a period of complex change for our international businesses."
Jonathan Bloomer, who became chairman of Morgan Stanley International in 2018, with his wife, Judy.; Christopher J. Morvillo, with his wife, Neda. Mr. Morvillo was a partner at Clifford Chance, the international law firm. This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Yachts; Acquittals & mistrials; Law firms; International law; Public prosecutors

Business indexing term: Subject: Law firms

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Morgan Stanley; NAICS: 523150, 523940

URL: https ://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/23/business/dealbook/morvillo-bloomer-mike-lynch-yacht.html

Title: A Look at Executives in Yacht Sinking:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3096466173

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/look-at-executives-yacht-sinking/docview/3096466173/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Democrats Convened, Hotel Lobbies Doubled as Halls of Power: [National Desk]

Author: Shear, Michael D; Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Shear, Michael D; Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-democrats-convened-hotel-lobbies-doubled-halls/docview/3096466128/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The real jockeying for power in Chicago this week took place a few miles from the Democratic convention, in the lobbies and bars and hallways of the Four Seasons and Ritz-Carlton hotels.
They were on the prowl all week. The lobbyists, job seekers, influence peddlers, donors and all manner of ultrarich hangers-on at the Democratic National Convention.
To roam the luxury hotels of Chicago on any given morning or afternoon was to get a peek into the maneuvering of the well-to-do. There was casual talk of ambassadorships alongside the fried pizza bites and afternoon rosé.
At the Ritz-Carlton, there was Jeffrey Katzenberg, the campaign's co-chair and campaign finance impresario, enjoying lunch. At the Four Seasons, there was Terry McAuliffe, the famous backslapping Virginia politician, working the hotel bar and reminiscing about conventions of yore.
Others spotted making the rounds were Blair W. Effron, a well-connected financier; John W. Rogers Jr., a top donor and the founder of the country's largest minority-run mutual fund firm; and Ken Chenault, the former American Express chief executive who landed a speaking slot earlier in the week. Among the targets of their attention: Minyon Moore, one of Vice President Kamala Harris's key advisers, who was seen winding her way through the crowded lobby.
"Hotel lobbies are prime territory," said Steve Elmendorf, a veteran Democratic lobbyist who compared the schmoozing to a college reunion. "People are unobstructed. You see the governor or the senator walk through the lobby, you can go talk to them."
It has long been this way on the sidelines of political conventions, where powerful relationships are born and nurtured far from K Street lobbying offices or boardrooms. But there are still 74 days left -- at least -- until anyone will know whether it is important to get in good with the people wielding authority in a President Harris administration. It may yet be another four years of wooing President Trump and his associates.
Veterans of these events know that certain conversations can be premature.
"I'd throw someone out a window if they asked about an ambassadorship," Mr. McAuliffe told a reporter as he greeted well-wishers in the Four Seasons lobby with a "good to see you, buddy." The election, he stressed, was not over.
But still, a stroll through the crowded lobbies shows that many people in politics believe it is never too early to start strategizing.
"I was at a gathering at the Four Seasons Boston on Election Day 2004, and people were talking about what jobs they'd have in the Kerry administration," said Matt Bennett, a top executive at Third Way, a Democratic think tank in Washington. "Premature chicken counting always happens and is, in my superstitious view, a bad idea."
The very biggest fund-raisers for the Harris Victory Fund were at the Ritz ( $ 689 a room), while the only slightly big fund-raisers took place at the Four Seasons ( $ 595 a room) three blocks away. That pecking order is obvious to everyone, so much so that some wealthy givers or their aides sheepishly admitted that they had been booked at the No. 2 hotel.
Throughout the week, donors could be spotted in the hotel lobbies consulting their advisers, lobbyists or favored groups to play high-end concierge and to dispense the all-important convention credentials and V.I.P. tickets to the best parties.
They also spent time complaining about the vans that got stuck for hours on the way to the United Center, the lack of food in the sponsored suites or the inability to get friends and family into a Thursday night huddle at the Queenie's club in the United Center, where Ms. Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, offered about 100 donors a champagne toast right after Ms. Harris's acceptance speech.
Business celebrities at the convention included Laurene Powell Jobs, the philanthropist and widow of the Apple co-founder; Alex Soros, the chair of the Open Society Foundations; and Hollywood players like the music executive Scooter Braun and the filmmaker J.J. Abrams. But Democrats say that plenty of the very top donors did not show, such as Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn; Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire and former New York City mayor; or Tom Steyer, the billionaire environmentalist from San Francisco.
The Republican National Convention, by contrast, attracted more megadonors like Dick Uihlein, Miriam Adelson and Todd Ricketts -- all conservative billionaires.
To some Democrats in the business community, the Harris ticket represents something of a blank slate, an opportunity to try to bend policymaking in their favor.
But there is also time to let off steam, whether it was batting practice at Wrigley Field or any of the concerts featuring John Legend, the Killers or T-Pain.
"A convention is basically a large trade show for people who are involved in politics and campaigns and government to catch up every four years," Mr. Elmendorf said. "They connect and see friends and see people who might be useful to them in the future, work on their campaigns, give them some money."
But, he added: "It's very social. It's not all business."
Photograph Chicago's top hotels drew crowds this week as Democrats of all stripes sought to make connections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JON CHERRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Political conventions; State elections; Lobbyists; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Hotels & motels

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/23/us/politics/dnc-wealthy-donors-parties.html

Title: As Democrats Convened, Hotel Lobbies Doubled as Halls of Power:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 24, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3096466128

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-democrats-convened-hotel-lobbies-doubled-halls/docview/3096466128/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Year of the A.I. Election That Wasn't: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Frenkel, Sheera

Publication info: Frenkel, Sheera. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-i-election-that-wasnt/docview/3096466123/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: More than 30 tech companies have pitched A.I. tools to political campaigns for November's election. The campaigns have been wary.
Matthew Diemer, a Democrat running for election in Ohio's Seventh Congressional District, was approached by the artificial intelligence company Civox in January with a pitch: A.I.-backed voice technology that could make tens of thousands of personalized phone calls to voters using Mr. Diemer's talking points and sense of humor.
His campaign agreed to try out the technology. But it turned out that the only thing voters hated more than a robocall was an A.I.-backed one.
While Civox's A.I. program made almost 1,000 calls to voters in five minutes, nearly all of them hung up in the first few seconds when they heard a voice that described itself as an A.I. volunteer, Mr. Diemer said.
"People just didn't want to be on the phone, and they especially didn't want to be on the phone when they heard they were talking to an A.I. program," said the entrepreneur, who ran unsuccessfully in 2022 for the same seat he is seeking now. "Maybe people weren't ready yet for this type of technology."
This was supposed to be the year of the A.I. election. Fueled by a proliferation of A.I. tools like chatbots and image generators, more than 30 tech companies have offered A.I. products to national, state and local U.S. political campaigns in recent months. The companies -- mostly smaller firms such as BHuman, VoterVoice and Poll the People -- make products that reorganize voter rolls and campaign emails, expand robocalls and create A.I.-generated likenesses of candidates that can meet and greet constituents virtually.
But campaigns are largely not biting -- and when they have, the technology has fallen flat. Only a handful of candidates are using A.I., and even fewer are willing to admit it, according to interviews with 23 tech companies and seven political campaigns. Three of the companies said campaigns agreed to buy their tech only if they could ensure that the public would never find out they had used A.I.
Much of the hesitation stems from internal campaign polls that found voters were nervous about A.I. and distrusted the technology, said four officials involved in Democratic and Republican campaigns. When campaigns turned to A.I. to generate photos or videos of candidates, the numbers were even worse, one of them said.
Some uses of A.I. in political campaigns have already flopped. In January, an A.I. robocall that mimicked President Biden's voice in the New Hampshire primary was denounced by political watchdogs and investigated by local law enforcement. On Monday, former President Donald J. Trump posted A.I.-generated images of Taylor Swift endorsing him to his social media site, Truth Social. The response from her fans was anger and condemnation.
"Political campaigns have trust issues to begin with," said Phillip Walzak, a political consultant in New York. "No candidate wants to be accused of posting deepfakes in the election or using A.I. in a way that deceives voters."
The skepticism is part of a new reality for A.I. as enthusiasm over the technology has cooled. This year, tech giants and start-ups that had celebrated A.I. as the wave of the future have begun hedging their promises. Wall Street has become wary of the financial goals set by A.I. companies. And lawmakers have proposed measures that could slow the A.I. industry's growth.
Just six months ago, it was a different story. Drawn by the promise of millions of dollars in campaign funds that candidates would spend to win, dozens of tech companies shifted their technology toward the U.S. election. They created chatbots like ChatGPT with A.I. image generators to create walking, talking clones of candidates that could interact with voters virtually.
BHuman, a New York company founded in 2020 that uses A.I. to create videos, has pitched political campaigns on a product that personalizes videos of candidates for voters. Candidates could record themselves speaking on an issue and BHuman's A.I.-based technology could then clone their face and voice to create new videos. The opening lines could be tweaked to greet a specific voter, or recite a particular talking point.
"Imagine you're a voter and you get a video in which a candidate says your name and speaks to your issues," said Don Bosco, BHuman's founder. "That is creating human connection."
BHuman also offers a product that creates a digital replica of a candidate, mimicking the candidate's writing style to answer emails or engaging in virtual chats with voters. Mr. Bosco declined to comment on which campaigns had used his company's products.
Personaliz.ai, an A.I. company founded last year and based in Hyderabad, India, said it worked with more than 30 politicians in India's national elections this year. The firm made videos where A.I. versions of candidates interacted with voters on LinkedIn and on campaign websites. They also sent personalized videos to people's phones through WhatsApp and text messages.
Santosh Thota, chief executive of Personaliz.ai, said that the response from candidates and voters in India was "great" and that his company had seen interest from other Southeast Asian countries and had shown its tech to politicians in several African countries. But he has not seen the same interest from the United States and Europe, he said.
"People in the U.S. are skeptical of the technology," Mr. Thota said.
Civox, which is based in London and worked with the campaign of Mr. Diemer, the Ohio Democrat running for Congress, said it was still experimenting with the right way to reach voters with its technology. Apart from its A.I. voice technology, the company offers chatbot-like programs that can answer voters' questions on behalf of a campaign.
Ilya Mouzykantskii, Civox's chief executive, said that A.I. was not a magic bullet for winning, but that the tools could help campaigns -- especially small ones -- "run more automated and targeted outreach."
Some campaigns have been more willing to buy tech from A.I. companies for behind-the-scenes tasks, such as helping to organize email lists and voter databases, three of the companies said.
When Mr. Diemer initially began working with Civox on A.I. voice technology, he asked that his voice be used to train the A.I. robocall, the company said. But Civox urged him to go with a voice that was clearly artificially generated, so voters would know that A.I. was involved and that the campaign was acting transparently.
Mr. Diemer's campaign eventually settled on an A.I. voice that said, "Hi, I'm Ashley, an artificial intelligence volunteer for Matt Diemer." The calls were placed in March, just before Super Tuesday. The pickup rate of robocalls, whether done by A.I. or by human voice, was in the single digits, Civox said. Most people hung up on the calls from Mr. Diemer's campaign in the first few seconds.
Civox declined to comment on how much the tech cost. The company worked with about a dozen political campaigns over four months in the spring and made hundreds of thousands of robocalls to test its A.I. technology.
Mr. Diemer said he didn't regret experimenting with A.I.
"I love A.I. and tech and what it could potentially do to make political campaigns more affordable and accessible for everyone," he said. "I don't think everyone got what we were trying to do, or gave it a chance to see that maybe, A.I. was a great tool in reaching voters."
Photograph Matthew Diemer, about people's reaction when his campaign tried out A.I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW DIEMER/REUTERS) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Political campaigns; Polls & surveys; Artificial intelligence; Video recordings; Candidates; Voters; Politics; Chatbots; Elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

Location: New York; United States--US; India; Ohio

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/21/technology/ai-election-campaigns.html

Title: The Year of the A.I. Election That Wasn't:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3096466123

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-i-election-that-wasnt/docview/3096466123/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Year of the AI Election That Wasn’t

Author: Frenkel, Sheera

Publication info: Frenkel, Sheera. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-ai-election-that-wasn-t/docview/3096438594/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — Matthew Diemer, a Democrat running for election in Ohio’s 7th Congressional District, was approached in January with a pitch by artificial intelligence company Civox: AI-backed voice technology that could make tens of thousands of personalized phone calls to voters using Diemer’s talking points and sense of humor.
His campaign agreed to try out the technology. But it turned out that the only thing voters hated more than a robocall was an AI-backed one.
While Civox’s AI program made almost 1,000 calls to voters in five minutes, nearly all of them hung up in the first few seconds when they heard a voice that described itself as an AI volunteer, Diemer said.
“People just didn’t want to be on the phone, and they especially didn’t want to be on the phone when they heard they were talking to an AI program,” said the entrepreneur, who ran unsuccessfully in 2022 for the same seat he is seeking now. “Maybe people weren’t ready yet for this type of technology.”
This was supposed to be the year of the AI election. Fueled by a proliferation of AI tools such as chatbots and image generators, more than 30 tech companies have offered AI products to national, state and local U.S. political campaigns in recent months. The companies — mostly smaller firms such as BHuman, VoterVoice and Poll the People — make products that reorganize voter rolls and campaign emails, expand robocalls and create AI-generated likenesses of candidates that can meet and greet constituents virtually.
But campaigns are largely not biting — and when they have, the technology has fallen flat. Only a handful of candidates are using AI, and even fewer are willing to admit it, according to interviews with 23 tech companies and seven political campaigns. Three of the companies said campaigns agreed to buy their tech only if they could ensure the public would never find out they had used AI.
Much of the hesitation stems from internal campaign polls that found voters were nervous about AI and distrusted the technology, said four officials involved in Democratic and Republican campaigns. When campaigns turned to AI to generate photos or videos of candidates, the numbers were even worse, one of them said.
Some uses of AI in political campaigns have already flopped. In January, an AI robocall that mimicked President Joe Biden’s voice in the New Hampshire primary was denounced by political watchdogs and investigated by local law enforcement. On Monday, former President Donald Trump posted AI-generated images of Taylor Swift endorsing him to his social media site, Truth Social. The response from her fans was anger and condemnation.
“Political campaigns have trust issues to begin with,” said Phillip Walzak, a political consultant in New York. “No candidate wants to be accused of posting deepfakes in the election or using AI in a way that deceives voters.”
The skepticism is part of a new reality for AI as enthusiasm over the technology has cooled. This year, tech giants and startups that had celebrated AI as the wave of the future have begun hedging their promises. Wall Street has become wary of the financial goals set by AI companies. And lawmakers have proposed measures that could slow the AI industry’s growth.
Just six months ago, it was a different story. Drawn by the promise of millions of dollars in campaign funds that candidates would spend to win, dozens of tech companies shifted their technology toward the U.S. election. They created chatbots like ChatGPT with AI image generators to create walking, talking clones of candidates that could interact with voters virtually.
BHuman, a New York company founded in 2020 that uses AI to create videos, has pitched political campaigns on a product that personalizes videos of candidates for voters. Candidates could record themselves speaking on an issue and BHuman’s AI-based technology could then clone their face and voice to create new videos. The opening lines could be tweaked to greet a specific voter, or recite a particular talking point.
“Imagine you’re a voter and you get a video in which a candidate says your name and speaks to your issues,” said Don Bosco, BHuman’s founder. “That is creating human connection.”
BHuman also offers a product that creates a digital replica of a candidate, mimicking the candidate’s writing style to answer emails or engaging in virtual chats with voters. Bosco declined to comment on which campaigns had used his company’s products.
Personaliz.ai, an AI company founded last year and based in Hyderabad, India, said it worked with more than 30 politicians in India’s national elections this year. The firm made videos where AI versions of candidates interacted with voters on LinkedIn and on campaign websites. They also sent personalized videos to people’s phones through WhatsApp and text messages.
Santosh Thota, CEO of Personaliz.ai, said that the response from candidates and voters in India was “great” and that his company had seen interest from other Southeast Asian countries and had shown its tech to politicians in several African countries. But he has not seen the same interest from the United States and Europe, he said.
“People in the U.S. are skeptical of the technology,” Thota said.
Civox, which is based in London and worked with Diemer’s campaign, said it was still experimenting with the right way to reach voters with its technology. Apart from its AI voice technology, the company offers chatbot-like programs that can answer voters’ questions on behalf of a campaign.
Ilya Mouzykantskii, Civox’s CEO, said AI is not a magic bullet for winning, but that the tools could help campaigns — especially small ones — “run more automated and targeted outreach.”
Some campaigns have been more willing to buy tech from AI companies for behind-the-scenes tasks, such as helping organize email lists and voter databases, three of the companies said.
When Diemer initially began working with Civox on AI voice technology, he asked that his voice be used to train the AI robocall, the company said. But Civox urged him to go with a voice that was clearly artificially generated, so voters would know that AI was involved and that the campaign was acting transparently.
Diemer’s campaign eventually settled on an AI voice that said, “Hi, I’m Ashley, an artificial intelligence volunteer for Matt Diemer.” The calls were placed in March, just before Super Tuesday. The pickup rate of robocalls, whether done by AI or by human voice, was in the single digits, Civox said. Most people hung up on the calls from Diemer’s campaign in the first few seconds.
Civox declined to comment on how much the tech cost. The company worked with about a dozen political campaigns over four months in the spring and made hundreds of thousands of robocalls to test its AI technology.
Diemer said he didn’t regret experimenting with AI.
“I love AI and tech and what it could potentially do to make political campaigns more affordable and accessible for everyone,” he said. “I don’t think everyone got what we were trying to do, or gave it a chance to see that maybe, AI was a great tool in reaching voters.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Polls & surveys; Political campaigns; Artificial intelligence; Candidates; Video recordings; Voters; Politics; Chatbots; Elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

Location: New York; United States--US; India

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Linkedin Corporation; Openai Labs; Computers And The Internet; Law And Legislation; Polls And Public Opinion; Artificial Intelligence; Swift, Taylor; India; New Hampshire; Voice And Speech; Business; Telemarketing; Start Ups; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Primaries And Caucuses; United States; Two Thousand Twenty; Voice Recognition Systems; Elections; Politics And Government; Elections, House Of Representatives; Europe; Two Thousand Twenty Two; Social Media; Presidential Election Of 2024; Whatsapp Inc; Ohio; Hyderabad (India); United States Politics And Government; Democratic Party; Truth Social (Social Network); Africa; Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: The Year of the AI Election That Wasn’t

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 23, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-23T22:34:12Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3096438594

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-ai-election-that-wasn-t/docview/3096438594/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside the Democratic Schmoozefest, Where Hotel Lobbies Are ‘Prime Territory’

Author: Shear, Michael D; Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Shear, Michael D; Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-democratic-schmoozefest-where-hotel/docview/3096352961/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
CHICAGO — They were on the prowl all week. The lobbyists, job seekers, influence peddlers, donors and all manner of ultrarich hangers-on at the Democratic National Convention.
To roam the luxury hotels of Chicago on any given morning or afternoon was to get a peek into the maneuvering of the well-to-do. There was casual talk of ambassadorships alongside the fried pizza bites and afternoon rosé.
At the Ritz-Carlton, there was Jeffrey Katzenberg, the campaign’s co-chair and campaign finance impresario, enjoying lunch. At the Four Seasons, there was Terry McAuliffe, famous backslapping Virginia politician, working the hotel bar and reminiscing about conventions of yore.
Others spotted making the rounds were Blair W. Effron, a well-connected financier; John W. Rogers Jr., a top donor and founder of the country’s largest minority-run mutual fund firm; and Ken Chenault, the former American Express chief executive who landed a speaking slot earlier in the week. Among the targets of their attention: Minyon Moore, one of Vice President Kamala Harris’ key advisers, who was seen winding her way through the crowded lobby.
“Hotel lobbies are prime territory,” said Steve Elmendorf, a veteran Democratic lobbyist who compared the schmoozing to a college reunion. “People are unobstructed. You see the governor or the senator walk through the lobby, you can go talk to them.”
It has long been this way on the sidelines of political conventions, where powerful relationships are born and nurtured far from K Street lobbying offices or boardrooms. But there are still 74 days left — at least — until anyone will know whether it is important to get in good with the people wielding authority in a President Harris administration. It may yet be another four years of wooing President Donald Trump and his associates.
Veterans of these events know that certain conversations can be premature.
“I’d throw someone out a window if they asked about an ambassadorship,” McAuliffe told a reporter as he greeted well-wishers in the Four Seasons lobby with a “good to see you, buddy.” The election, he stressed, was not over.
But still, a stroll through the crowded lobbies shows that many people in politics believe it is never too early to start strategizing.
“I was at a gathering at the Four Seasons Boston on Election Day 2004, and people were talking about what jobs they’d have in the Kerry administration,” said Matt Bennett, a top executive at Third Way, a Democratic think tank in Washington. “Premature chicken counting always happens and is, in my superstitious view, a bad idea.”
The very biggest fundraisers for the Harris Victory Fund were at the Ritz ($689 a room), while the only slightly big fundraisers took place at the Four Seasons ($595 a room) three blocks away. That pecking order is obvious to everyone, so much so that some wealthy givers or their aides sheepishly admitted that they had been booked at the No. 2 hotel.
Throughout the week, donors could be spotted in the hotel lobbies consulting their advisers, lobbyists or favored groups to play high-end concierge and to dispense the all-important convention credentials and VIP tickets to the best parties.
They also spent time complaining about the vans that got stuck for hours on the way to the United Center, the lack of food in the sponsored suites or the inability to get friends and family into a Thursday night huddle at the Queenie’s club in the United Center, where Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, offered about 100 donors a champagne toast right after Harris’ acceptance speech.
Business celebrities at the convention included Laurene Powell Jobs, philanthropist and widow of the Apple co-founder; Alex Soros, chair of the Open Society Foundations; and Hollywood players like music executive Scooter Braun and filmmaker J.J. Abrams. But Democrats say that plenty of the very top donors did not show, such as Reid Hoffman, co-founder of LinkedIn; Michael Bloomberg, billionaire and former New York City mayor; or Tom Steyer, billionaire environmentalist from San Francisco.
The Republican National Convention, by contrast, attracted more megadonors like Dick Uihlein, Miriam Adelson and Todd Ricketts — all conservative billionaires.
To some Democrats in the business community, the Harris ticket represents something of a blank slate, an opportunity to try to bend policymaking in their favor.
But there is also time to let off steam, whether it was batting practice at Wrigley Field or any of the concerts featuring John Legend, the Killers or T-Pain.
“A convention is basically a large trade show for people who are involved in politics and campaigns and government to catch up every four years,” Elmendorf said. “They connect and see friends and see people who might be useful to them in the future, work on their campaigns, give them some money.”
But, he added: “It’s very social. It’s not all business.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Political conventions; State elections; Lobbyists; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Hotels & motels

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: United Center (Chicago, Ill); United States; Linkedin Corporation; Politics And Government; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Republican National Convention; Rogers, John W; Presidential Election Of 2024; United States Politics And Government; Killers, The (Music Group); San Francisco (Calif); Abrams, J J; Pop And Rock Music; Republican Party; Ritz Carlton Hotel Co; Mcauliffe, Terry; Emhoff, Douglas C; Campaign Finance; Four Seasons Hotels Ltd; Primaries And Caucuses; Chenault, Kenneth I; New York City; Philanthropy; Rogers, John W Jr; Wrigley Field (Chicago); Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Open Society Foundations; Third Way; Braun, Scooter (1981 ); Democratic Party; Katzenberg, Jeffrey; Virginia; Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; Effron, Blair W; Harris, Kamala D; Legend, John; Bars And Nightclubs; Steyer, Thomas F; Chicago (Ill); Democratic National Convention; American Express Company; Luxury Goods And Services

Title: Inside the Democratic Schmoozefest, Where Hotel Lobbies Are ‘Prime Territory’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 23, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-23T18:29:07Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3096352961

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-democratic-schmoozefest-where-hotel/docview/3096352961/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Enticement In the Aisles: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Ben Ryder Howe

Publication info: Ben Ryder Howe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/enticement-aisles/docview/3094965032/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When it opened in 1984, the Costco on West Dimond Boulevard in Anchorage did not seem like the future of food. A glorified shed the color of stale coffee, the warehouse offered the sort of products and deals Alaskans go crazy for: mammoth quantities of staples like peanut butter and tomato sauce, along with local favorites such as caribou sausage. The state's extreme environment and the need to travel hours or even days for groceries made it a hit right off the bat.
Today the parking lot, full of jacked-up, Thuled-out 4x4s on studded tires and mobile homes that look more like mobile fortresses, has a bit of an edge for a grocery store. There's something edgy about the inventory, too: neoprene survival suits, meat grinders, gun safes.
Inside the vast store, overloaded shopping carts seemingly pilot themselves down the aisles. One was pushed by Gabriella Pelesasa, a teenager who was buying, among other things, a pair of whole pigs, at 45 pounds each.
As her sister sat on the cart eating a Costco hot dog, Ms. Pelesasa reported simply, "They have bigger versions of what we want."
Though the Anchorage location, one of the retailer's first, once seemed like a survivalist outlier, today it shows how visionary Costco was.
"In 2020, about one-quarter of the population stockpiled nonperishable foods," said Jennifer Mapes-Christ of the market research firm Packaged Facts. Today, more than half do. Ms. Mapes-Christ said that while the pandemic was an accelerant, the trend began before that, driven by anxieties about climate change and economic instability.
In 2019, one quarter of U.S. consumers shopped at Costco. Today it is nearly one-third. Costco is the third-largest retailer in the world, behind only Amazon and Walmart.
But the success of Costco goes far beyond hoarding. The company has hacked the psyche of the American consumer, appealing to both the responsible-shopping superego ("Twelve cans of tuna for $ 18!") and the buy-it-now id ("I deserve that 98-inch flat screen.")
Ostensibly, Costco is a discount store, a place to save money and stretch your grocery dollar, but it is also an aspirational shopping experience, feeding that most American of appetites: conspicuous consumption.
Few companies have greater influence over what we eat (or wear, or fuel our cars with, or use for personal hygiene). Costco dominates multiple categories of the food supply -- beef, poultry, organic produce, even fine wine from Bordeaux, which it sells more of than any retailer in the world. It is the arbiter of survival for millions of producers, including more than a million cashew farmers in Africa alone. (Costco sells half the world's cashews.) Its private label, Kirkland, generates more revenue than towering brands like Nike and Coca-Cola.
For all its success, the company is not well understood. The top brass are insular and secretive. And beyond quarterly reports, Costco rarely discloses anything of its inner workings.
But to Charlie Munger, the billionaire investor and Warren Buffett's right hand at Berkshire Hathaway, the balance sheet speaks for itself. In one of his last interviews before he died last year, he was succinct: "It is a perfect damn company."
'Everything was about trust'
Costco has often been likened to a cult, in part because once members -- 134 million worldwide -- enter the fold, they rarely leave.
Indeed, devotion to the brand is so avid it has inspired tributes on social media, bits on late-night shows by celebrities hoping to seem relatable and even a book, "The Joy of Costco."
At a time when Americans increasingly view big brands as predatory monopolies or fumbling, broken-down legacies, Costco is revered for its high wages, attentive customer service and "deep commitment to integrity," said Jeremy Smith, the president of Launchpad, an Oregon-based food brand incubator that specializes in placing products at Costco.
Whether Costco is a cult or not, its founder was a Bronx-born lawyer with utopian ideals and strict morals.
Sol Price, born in 1916, was the son of garment workers from Minsk, and belonged to the generation of displaced Jews and other Europeans who thrived in New York's small businesses -- the delis, candy shops and pawnshops of the Depression and postwar years. In the 1920s, the family moved to San Diego, where he went to high school.
After law school at the University of Southern California, Mr. Price started his career representing grocers and other merchants. With the temperament of a shopkeeper who obsesses over his customers and fusses over the smallest of details, in the 1950s Mr. Price began converting empty San Diego warehouses into members-only bazaars where for a small fee, shoppers could get everything from hosiery to cigarettes at wholesale prices. The key to the business, called FedMart, was simple: keep members renewing year after year.
In 2003, Mr. Price described his philosophy to Fortune magazine as "How do we sell stuff at the lowest markup?" The overriding goal, he said, was "to look at everything from the standpoint of, is it really being honest with the customer?"
Mr. Price had a gift for connecting with shoppers at a time of exploding prosperity and social change, but paradoxically, one of his rules was not making too much money.
"He grew up in a family of socialists. He was a capitalist. He liked to make money, but he was pro-union, pro-labor, pro-little guy," said David Schwartz, who co-wrote "The Joy of Costco" with his wife, Susan. "Everything was about trust. He would rather lose your business than your trust."
Through a series of mergers over the years, Sol Price's FedMart became what we know as Costco in the 1990s. To an uncanny degree for a modern corporation, the company, now headquartered in Issaquah, Wash., has remained true to Mr. Price's vision. It is still relationship-minded, and members seem satisfied, renewing at a rate of 93 percent. Last quarter, the membership fees accounted for $ 1.12 billion, about two-thirds of Costco's $ 1.68 billion total net income. The dependence, in other words, remains mutual.
Wall Street also likes what Costco does, especially the dependable cash flow that comes from membership. Occasionally, shareholders feel neglected -- in 2004, an analyst with Deutsche Bank complained that Costco was "overly generous" with its employee benefits, saying, "Public companies need to care for shareholders first." But few complain about the returns.
"I did the calculation once," Mr. Schwartz said. "The stock price has grown 17 percent annually since the founding."
'A giant ecosystem'
Four thousand miles south of Anchorage, in Sugar Land, Texas, no one flies in by bush plane to shop. But in this swampy Houston suburb, life orbits around Costco just the same.
The site of a former prison farm for the sugar industry, Sugar Land has transformed in recent years into an interlocking complex of master-planned communities. In June, Costco opened Warehouse No. 882, its third in the area, on a prime piece of land.
On opening day, the al-Abadi family stood at the entrance, trailed by a long line of members waiting since dawn, despite the punishing heat.
Shariah al-Abadi, who came with a shopping list in mind ("butter, oil, the essentials") and the intention to stick to it, epitomized one type of Costco member. Her teenage daughter Fatima typified another: She was there for the possibility of surprise. For months, as the new warehouse rose from the mud, so had Fatima's anticipation. After an hour shopping in the new store, mother and daughter checked out with a cart barely containing the day's haul, including a six-foot-tall teddy bear.
"We'll be back," sighed Ms. al-Abadi, who said she goes to Costco "twice a week. Sometimes more."
Like Anchorage, Sugar Land is home to a rapidly growing Asian American population (largely Indian and Pakistani American in Sugar Land), which Costco is eager to serve, despite the challenge of operating across a nation of wildly varying local tastes and traditions.
"Costco knows what's going on in Texas because they have an office there," Mr. Smith said. "It's very astute. They're one of the few retailers that will allow a brand to go into just one building and test their product."
As a result, Costco is able to pick up on trends and send intel back to Issaquah. "It's a giant ecosystem," said Mr. Smith, if also one dependent on human capital -- the expertise of warehouse managers. Costco tends to promote from within, inculcating personnel with the company's idiosyncratic culture for decades, if not entire careers. Many of the company's top employees began as baggers or food handlers.
That limited Costco's expansion in the past. For many years the company declined to open new warehouses at the rate Wall Street wanted, because of management concerns that the facilities were too challenging to operate.
This concern seems to have waned, however. Costco now opens about 30 warehouses a year, with a growing number abroad. "Overseas expansion is where the growth is coming," Susan Schwartz said. "Right now they've got seven warehouses in China. But they could have 150."
East Asia has indeed been fertile for Costco, with openings this year in Japan (where it already has 33 warehouses), South Korea, Australia and China. That experience has yielded dividends at home. Expertise in Taiwanese and South Korean shopping preferences translated into the availability in the United States of products like braised abalone in brown sauce, giant red sea cucumber and Chinese-style bacon -- and brand loyalty from Asian Americans.
Yutack Kang, a content creator from Milpitas, Calif., with 463,000 TikTok followers, posts frequently about "sus foods at Costco you're too afraid to try." One of his latest: frozen durian pulp produced by Lucky Taro, a Los Angeles-based importer.
"The Asian food selection is superb," Mr. Kang wrote in an email.
'Costco would never'
By and large, Americans do not trust corporations. But when asked which companies they do trust, they consistently rank Costco near the top.
"They're selling the same food everyone else is selling," Mr. Smith said. "It's not like the products are magical. But they created a culture."
Sol Price wanted Costco members to feel respected and smart. The company remains known for its no-questions-asked return policy, high-quality products and cheerful customer service. Employees are paid significantly better (an average of $ 26 per hour) than their counterparts at major retailers (an average $ 17 per hour). That helps create "a stable, motivated, capable team," said Zeynep Ton, a professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management.
Perhaps most important is Costco's abiding reputation for low prices.
For Kirkland products, for instance, Ms. Ton said "they don't mark up anything more than 14 or 15 percent." This includes Costco's flagship product, the wildly popular $ 1.50 hot-dog-and-soda combo, which has cost the same since 1985. It's not publicly known whether the company makes money on the 200 million hot dogs it sells each year, but the pricing is widely seen as brilliant marketing.
Another, less obvious way Costco keeps faith with its members is by not selling shelf space. "Many retailers ask suppliers to pay for a position in a store," said Mark Stovin, a former Costco executive who now works for OSMG, a leading food broker. "Costco would never do that."
Mr. Stovin said Costco also does something almost none of its competitors do: restrain itself in mining customer data. "They have a number for every member, which could be trackable, traceable, and they could certainly dive into that," Mr. Stovin said. "They really haven't."
It appears the company may be loosening up: Costco recently announced that it would join companies with less consumer-friendly reputations like Uber in starting a retail media network, serving ads to members based on their purchasing histories. (The company declined to say what platforms those ads might appear on. In a further shift, that effort will be led by an outsider, a veteran marketer from Walmart.)
Costco remains reluctant to embrace technology -- it was a latecomer to e-commerce, for instance -- which may be attributable to the spirit of Mr. Price, who commanded managers to step away from their computers.
"If you're a senior manager, your job is to interact with members," Mr. Schwartz said. "They expect senior people to be on the floor all the time."
That ethos goes all the way to the top.
At the Sugar Land opening, Ron Vachris, who in January became Costco's chief executive, just the third in the company's 42-year history, could be seen chatting with floor personnel and inspecting the frozen tilapia. Hundreds of Costco employees, who are known for exuberant loyalty, had driven from as far away as Baton Rouge, La., to celebrate and shake hands with their new boss.
Mr. Vachris, who started as a forklift operator in 1982, greeted employees and customers warmly, seemingly willing to hang out all morning. Approached by a reporter, however, he handed over his business card and retreated into a corporate cadence. ("Texas has been a great state to us. We're excited to have another building here.") Subsequent requests for an interview were declined.
Costco executives are known for avoiding the press, which contributes to the company mystique. "They have amazing discipline," Ms. Ton said. "If you go on LinkedIn, you won't find much information about their executives." And the company has no media relations office.
Because of Costco's secrecy, judging whether the company lives up to its own professed standards can be a challenge.
"It would be interesting to know more about how they use their data," said Raghu Iyengar, a professor of marketing at the Wharton School.
Since almost nothing is known publicly about Costco's internal workings, he said, even its sterling reputation for low prices cannot be verified. To determine whether Costco's prices are in fact "selling stuff at the lowest markup," the company would need to be less guarded.
'Treasure Hunt Atmosphere'
Situated between a defunct strip club, Brooklyn's industrial waterfront and a raucous, sludge-oozing elevated expressway, Costco Warehouse No. 318 is low on sparkle but hums with manic energy. The Sunset Park location seems to have set aside shelf space for every immigrant group in Brooklyn. Beyond that, though, this could be a Costco anywhere. That works to Costco's advantage.
One way the company strokes the value-driven superegos of its members is simply with the presentation of its warehouses. With their exposed wiring, minimal sunlight and nary a Spotify playlist, the warehouses are, well, warehouses, with fluorescent lighting and bad acoustics, designed to be built in a hurry. (The 3.5-acre Sugar Land building, for example, took only four months to assemble.)
That no-frills presentation transmits a reassuring signal of benign intent: We're not trying to seduce you. Which is its own kind of come-on.
"The customer walks in the door, and immediately there is a perception of value," said Paco Underhill, the author of "Why We Buy: The Science of Shopping." "The perception of value means that as someone walks in, discretionary purchases take on a different mantle than they might at Kroger, Target or Macy's. People go, 'I would never think about buying that. But if I did, this is the place to get it."'
For all its piety, the last thing Costco wants is for shoppers to stick to a budget. On the contrary, it wants them to return to the parking lot balancing a wobbly heap of products they had no intention of buying -- a strategy known as "the Costco effect."
"You've heard the phrase," Mr. Vachris said on an earnings call in May. "People come in to spend $ 100 and walk out with $ 300."
"We have created a treasure-hunt atmosphere," said Jim Sinegal, the previous Costco chief executive, in an address to San Diego State University business students in 2017. "We try to create a sense of urgency, that if you see the product there, you better buy it, because chances are they won't be there next time."
In recent years, the treasure-hunt offerings have included Burberry shoulder bags ( $ 1,000) and bottles of Romanée-Conti wine (a four-pack for $ 40,000). Last year the retailer even began offering one-ounce gold bars for about $ 2,000, which typically sell out within hours. (It has been estimated that Costco sells some $ 200 million in gold a month.)
And this manufactured circle of desire and regret works.
"I love Costco," said Erica Rualo, a content strategist at Chase Bank, who has shopped at the Sunset Park warehouse. "But I hate the feeling of 'I wish I had bought that,' because now it's gone. Or 'I should have bought more of that."'
Strictly speaking, Costco can still answer Sol Price's question "Is it really being honest with the customer?" with a "Yes." But at this point the spirit of his edict may have been lost to its letter.
It would be hard to argue that Costco buyers don't know what they are getting into. After all, they have to ferry the cart with the seven-foot-artificial tree, the solar panel, the steel pet coffin and the three-month supply of Belgian mini-cream puffs back to the car.
"The idea is that you don't feel that these are temptations," said Ayelet Fishbach, a behavioral psychologist at the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business "You're getting a great deal."
But, she added, "The question is, Do you actually need this? You probably don't."
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Photograph Costco is the third-largest retailer in the world, behind only Amazon and Walmart. It dominates numerous categories of the food supply, including beef, poultry, organic produce and even fine wine from Bordeaux. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KERRY TASKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1); Top, center and bottom: at Costco stores in Anchorage this month. The company's stores, or warehouses, have an average size of 147,000 square feet. Right, Sol Price, Costco's founder, was a lawyer who was born in the Bronx in 1916. He was raised in a family of socialists. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KERRY TASKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; COSTCO) (D4-D5); Above, a Costco store in Pompano Beach, Fla., in 2001. Top right, a Costco food court in Inglewood, Calif., offering the combo of hot dog and soda for $ 1.50, a price that has not changed since 1985. A screenshot of a TiKTok on Costco's Lucky Taro frozen durian pulp, above right, from the content creator Yutack Kang, who reviews the store's Asian products for his TikTok followers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ART SEITZ/GETTY IMAGES; PATRICK T. FALLON/GETTY IMAGES; YUTACK KANG/TIKTOK) (D5) This article appeared in print on page D1, D4, D5.

Subject: Shopping; Food; Warehouses; Stockholders; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Warehouses Stockholders Grocery stores

Location: Texas; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Costco Wholesale Corp; NAICS: 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/20/dining/costco.html

Title: Enticement In the Aisles:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 21, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3094965032

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/enticement-aisles/docview/3094965032/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

To Save Your Country, Scare the Enemy: [Style Desk]

Author: Dowd, Maureen

Publication info: Dowd, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/save-your-country-scare-enemy/docview/3093966996/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Alex Karp never learned to drive.
"I was too poor," he said. "And then I was too rich."
In fact, Mr. Karp, a co-founder and the C.E.O. of Palantir Technologies, the mysterious and powerful data analytics firm, doesn't trust himself to drive. Or ride a bike. Or ski downhill.
"I'm a dreamer," he said. "I'll start dreaming and then I fall over. I started doing tai chi to prevent that. It's really, really helped with focusing on one thing at a time. If you had met me 15 years ago, two-thirds of the conversation, I'd just be dreaming."
What would he dream about?
"Literally, it could be a walk I did five years ago," he said. "It could be some conversation I had in grad school. Could be my family member annoyed me. Something a colleague said, like: 'Why did they say this? What does it actually mean?"'
Mr. Karp is a lean, extremely fit billionaire with unruly salt-and-pepper curls. He is introvert-charming (something I aspire to myself). He has A.D.H.D. and can't hide it if he is not interested in what someone is saying. After a hyper spurt of talking, he loses energy and has to recharge on the stationary bike or by reading. Even though he thinks of himself as different, he seems to like being different. He enjoys being a provocateur onstage and in interviews.
"I'm a Jewish, racially ambiguous dyslexic, so I can say anything," he said, smiling.
Unlike many executives in Silicon Valley, Mr. Karp backed President Biden, cutting him a big check, despite skepticism about his handling of the border and his overreliance on Hollywood elites like Jeffrey Katzenberg. Now he is supporting Vice President Kamala Harris, but he still has vociferous complaints about his party.
When he donates, he said, he does it in multiples of 18 because "it's mystical -- 18 brings good luck in the tradition of kabbalah. I gave Biden $ 360,000."
The 56-year-old is perfectly happy hanging out in a remote woodsy meadow alone -- except for his Norwegian ski instructor, his Swiss-Portuguese chef, his Austrian assistant, his American shooting instructor and his bodyguards. (Mr. Karp, who has never married, once complained that bodyguards crimp your ability to flirt.)
"This is like introverts' heaven," he said, looking at his red barn from the porch of his Austrian-style house with a mezuza on the door. "You can invite people graciously. No one comes."
The house is sparse on furniture, but Mr. Karp still worries that it is too cluttered. "I do have a Spartan thing," he said. "I definitely feel constrained and slightly imprisoned when I have too much stuff around me."
So how did a daydreaming doctoral student in German philosophy wind up leading a shadowy data analytics firm that has become a major American defense contractor, one that works with spy services as it charts the future of autonomous warfare?
He's not a household name, and yet Mr. Karp is at the vanguard of what Mark Milley, the retired general and former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has called "the most significant fundamental change in the character of war ever recorded in history." In this new world, unorthodox Silicon Valley entrepreneurs like Mr. Karp and Elon Musk are woven into the fabric of America's national security.
Mr. Karp is also at the white-hot center of ethical issues about whether firms like Palantir are too Big Brother, with access to so much of our personal data as we sign away our privacy. And he is in the middle of the debate about whether artificial intelligence is friend or foe, whether killer robots and disembodied A.I. will one day turn on us.
Mr. Karp's position is that we're hurtling toward this new world whether we like it or not. Do we want to dominate it, or do we want to be dominated by China?
Critics worry about what happens when weapons are autonomous and humans become superfluous to the killing process. Tech reflects the values of its operators, so what if it falls into the hands of a modern Caligula?
"I think a lot of the issues come back to 'Are we in a dangerous world where you have to invest in these things?"' Mr. Karp told me, as he moved around his living room in a tai chi rhythm, wearing his house shoes, jeans and a tight white T-shirt. "And I come down to yes. All these technologies are dangerous." He adds: "The only solution to stop A.I. abuse is to use A.I."
Inspired by Tolkien
Palantir's name is derived from palantíri, the seeing stones in the J.R.R. Tolkien fantasies. The company's office in Palo Alto, Calif., features "Lord of the Rings" décor and is nicknamed the Shire.
After years under the radar, Mr. Karp is now in the public eye. He has joked that he needs a coach to teach him how to be more normal.
Born in New York and raised outside Philadelphia in a leftist family, Mr. Karp has a Jewish father who was a pediatrician and a Black mother who is an artist. They were social activists who took young Alex to civil rights marches and other protests. His uncle, Gerald D. Jaynes, is an economics and African American studies professor at Yale; his brother, Ben, is an academic who lives in Japan.
"I just think I've always viewed myself as I don't fit in, and I can't really try to," Mr. Karp said. "My parents' background just gave me a primordial subconscious bias that anything that involves 'We fit in together' does not include me.
"Yes, I think the way I explain it politically is like, if fascism comes, I will be the first or second person on the wall."
Mr. Karp has his own unique charisma. "He's one of a kind, to say the least," said the Democratic strategist James Carville, who is an informal adviser to Palantir.
When I visited the Palo Alto office, Mr. Karp accidentally knocked down a visitor while demonstrating a tai chi move. He apologized, then ran off to get a printout of Goethe's "Faust" in German, which he read aloud in an effort to show that it was better than the English translation.
"If you were to do a sitcom on Palantir, it's equal parts Larry David, a philosophy class, tech and James Bond," he said.
Palantir was founded in 2003 by a gang of five, including Karp and his old Stanford Law School classmate Peter Thiel (now the company's chairman). It was backed, in part, by nearly $ 2 million from In-Q-Tel, the C.I.A.'s venture capital arm.
"Saving lives and on occasion taking lives is super interesting," Mr. Karp told me.
He described what his company does as "the finding of hidden things" -- sifting through mountains of data to perceive patterns, including patterns of suspicious or aberrant behavior.
Mr. Karp does not believe in appeasement. "You scare the crap out of your adversaries," he said. He brims with American chauvinism, boasting that we are leagues ahead of China and Russia on software.
"The tech scene in America is like the jazz scene in the 1950s," he said in one forum. He told me: "I'm constantly telling people 86 percent of the top 50 tech companies in the world just by market cap are American -- and people fall out of their chair. It's hard for us to understand how dominant we are in certain industries."
In the wake of 9/11, the C.I.A. bet on Palantir's maw gobbling up data and auguring where the next terrorist attacks would come from. Palantir uses multiple databases to find the bad guy, even, as Mr. Karp put it, "if the bad guy actually works for you."
The company is often credited with helping locate Osama bin Laden so Navy SEALs could kill him, but it's unclear if that is true. As with many topics that came up in the course of our interviews in Washington, Palo Alto and New Hampshire, Mr. Karp zips his lips about whether his company was involved in dispatching the fiend of 9/11.
"If you have a reputation for talking about what the pope says when you meet him," Mr. Karp explained, "you'll never meet the pope again."
He does crow a little about Western civilization's resting on Palantir's slender shoulders, noting that without its software, "you would've had massive terror attacks in Europe already, like Oct. 7 style." And those attacks, he believes, would have propelled the far right to power.
Palantir does not do business with China, Russia or other countries that are opposed to the West. Mr. Thiel said the company tries to work with "more allied" and "less corrupt" governments, noting dryly that aside from their ideological stances, "with corrupt countries, you never get paid."
"We have a consistently pro-Western view that the West has a superior way of living and organizing itself, especially if we live up to our aspirations," Mr. Karp said. "It's interesting how radical that is, considering it's not, in my view, that radical."
He added: "If you believe we should appease Iran, Russia and China by saying we're going to be nicer and nicer and nicer, of course you'll look at Palantir negatively. Some of these places want you to do the apology show for what you believe in, and we don't apologize for what we believe in. I'm not going to apologize for defending the U.S. government on the border, defending the Special Ops, bringing the people home. I'm not apologizing for giving our product to Ukraine or Israel or lots of other places."
As one Karp acquaintance put it: "Alex is principled. You just may not like his principles."
Kara Swisher, the author of "Burn Book: A Tech Love Story," told me: "While Palantir promises a more efficient and cost-effective way to conduct war, should our goal be to make it less expensive, onerous and painful? After all, war is not a video game, nor should it be."
Mr. Karp's friend Diane von Furstenberg told me that he sees himself as Batman, believing in the importance of choosing sides in a parlous world. (The New York office is called Gotham and features a statue and prints of Batman.) But some critics have a darker view, worrying about Palantir creating a "digital kill chain" and seeing Mr. Karp less as a hero than as a villain.
Back in 2016, some Democrats regarded Palantir as ominous because of Mr. Thiel's support for former President Donald J. Trump. Later, conspiracy theories sprang up around the company's role in Operation Warp Speed, the federal effort pushing the Covid-19 vaccine program from clinical trials to jabs in arms.
Some critics focused on Palantir's work at the border, which helped U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement track down undocumented migrants for deportation. In 2019, about 70 demonstrators blocked access to the cafeteria outside the Palo Alto office. "Immigrants are welcome here, time to cancel Palantir," they shouted.
The same year, over 200 Palantir employees, in a letter to Mr. Karp, outlined their concerns about the software that had helped ICE. And there was a campaign inside Palantir -- in vain -- to get him to donate the proceeds of a $ 49 million ICE contract to charity.
I asked Mr. Karp if Mr. Thiel's public embrace of Mr. Trump the first time around had made life easier -- in terms of getting government contracts -- or harder.
"I didn't enjoy it," he said. "There's a lot of reasons I cut Biden a check. I do not enjoy being protested every day. It was completely ludicrous and ridiculous. It was actually the opposite. Because Peter had supported Mr. Trump, it was actually harder to get things done."
Did they talk about it?
"Peter and I talk about everything," Mr. Karp said. "It's like, yes, I definitely informed Peter, 'This is not making our life easier."'
Mr. Thiel did not give money to Mr. Trump or speak at his convention this time around, although he supports JD Vance, his former protégé at his venture capital firm. He said he might get more involved now because of Mr. Vance.
Palantir got its start in intelligence and defense -- it now works with the Space Force -- and has since sprouted across the government through an array of contracts. It helps the I.R.S. to identify tax fraud and the Food and Drug Administration to prevent supply chain disruptions and to get drugs to market quicker.
It has assisted Ukraine and Israel in sifting through seas of data to gather relevant intelligence in their wars -- on how to protect special forces by mapping capabilities, how to safely transport troops and how to target drones and missiles more accurately.
In 2022, Mr. Karp took a secret trip to war-ravaged Kyiv, becoming the first major Western C.E.O. to meet with Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelensky, and offering to supply his country with the technology that would allow it to be David to Russia's Goliath. Time magazine ran a cover on Ukraine as a lab for A.I. warfare, and Palantir operatives embedded with the troops.
While Palantir's role in helping Ukraine was heralded, its work with Israel, where targeting is more treacherous, because the enemy is parasitically entangled with civilians, is far more controversial.
"I think there's a huge dichotomy between how the elite sees Ukraine and Israel," Mr. Karp said. "If you go into any elite circle, pushing back against Russia is obvious, and Israel is complicated. If you go outside elite circles, it's exactly the opposite."
Independent analysts have said that Israel, during an April operation, could not have shot down scores of Iranian missiles and drones in mere minutes without Palantir's tech. But Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's scorched-earth campaign in Gaza, the starving and orphaned children and the deaths of tens of thousands of civilians have drawn outrage, including some aimed at Mr. Karp and Mr. Thiel.
In May, protesters trapped Mr. Thiel inside a student building at the University of Cambridge. In recent days, senior U.S. officials have expressed doubts about Israel's conduct of the war.
Mr. Karp's position on backing Israel is adamantine. The company took out a full-page ad in The New York Times last year stating that "Palantir stands with Israel."
"It's like we have a double standard on Israel," he told me. If the Oct. 7 attack had happened in America, he said, we would turn the hiding place of our enemies "into a parking lot. There would be no more tunnels."
As Mr. Karp told CNBC in March: "We've lost employees. I'm sure we'll lose more employees. If you have a position that does not cost you ever to lose an employee, it's not a position."
He told me, "If you believe that the West should lose and you believe that the only way to defend yourself is always with words and not with actions, you should be skeptical of us."
He added: "I always think it's hard because where the critics are right is what we do is morally complex. If you're supporting the West with products that are used at war, you can't pretend that there's a simple answer."
Does he have any qualms about what his company does?
"I'd have many more qualms if I thought our adversaries were committed to anything like the rule of law," he said, adding: "A lot of this does come down to, do you think America is a beacon of good or not? I think a lot of the critics, what they actually believe is America is not a force for good." His feeling is this: "Without being Pollyannaish, idiotic or pretending like any country's been perfect or there's not injustice, at the margin, would you want a world where America is stronger, healthy and more powerful, or not?"
Asked about the impending TikTok ban, he said he's "very in favor."
"I do not think you should allow an adversary to control an algorithm that is specifically designed to make us slower, more divided and arguably less cognitively fit," he said.
He considered the anti-Israel demonstrations such "an infection inside society," reflecting "a pagan religion of mediocrity and discrimination and intolerance, and violence," that he offered 180 jobs to students who were fearful of staying in college because of a spike in antisemitism on campuses.
"Palantir is a much better diploma," he told me. "Honestly, it's helping us, because there are very talented people at the Ivy League, and they're like, 'Get me out of here!"'
Mr. Karp sometimes gets emotional in his defense of Palantir. In June, when he received an award named in honor of Dwight Eisenhower at a D.C. gala for national security executives, he teared up. He said that when he lived in Germany, he often thought about the young men from Iowa and Kansas who risked their lives "to free people like me" during World War II. He said he was honored to receive an award named after the president who had integrated schools by force.
Claiming that his products "changed the course of history by stopping terror attacks," Mr. Karp said that Palantir had also "protected our men and women on the battlefield" and "taken the lives of our enemies, and I don't think that's something to be ashamed of."
He told the gala audience about being "yelled at" by people who "call themselves progressives."
"I actually am a progressive," he said. "I want less war. You only stop war by having the best technology and by scaring the bejabers -- I'm trying to be nice here -- out of our adversaries. If they are not scared, they don't wake up scared, they don't go to bed scared, they don't fear that the wrath of America will come down on them, they will attack us. They will attack us everywhere."
He added that "we in the corporate world" have "to grow a spine" on issues like the Ivy League protesters: "If we do not win the battle of ideas and reassert basic norms and the basic, obvious idea that America is a noble, great, wonderful aspiration of a dream that we are blessed to be part of, we will have a much, much worse world for all of us."
How It Started
The wild origin story of Palantir plays like a spy satire.
After graduating from Haverford College, Mr. Karp went to Stanford Law School, which he called "the worst three years of my adult life."
He wasn't interested in his classmates' obsession with landing prestigious jobs at top law firms. "I learned at law school that I cannot do something I do not believe in," he said, "even if it's just turning a wrench."
He met Mr. Thiel, a fellow student, and they immediately hit it off, trash-talking law school and, over beers, debating socialism vs. capitalism. "We argued like feral animals," Mr. Karp told Michael Steinberger in a New York Times Magazine piece.
The liberal Heidegger fan and the conservative René Girard fan made strange bedfellows, but that's probably what drew them together.
"I think we bonded on this intellectual level where he was this crazy leftist and I was this crazy right-wing person," Mr. Thiel told me, "but we somehow talked to each other."
"Alex did the Ph.D. thing," he continued, "which was, in some ways, a very, very insane thing to do after law school, but I was positive on it, because it sounded more interesting than working at a law firm."
Mr. Karp received his doctorate in neoclassical social theory from Goethe University Frankfurt. He reconnected with Mr. Thiel in 2002, while working at the Jewish Philanthropy Partnership in San Francisco. The two began doing "vague brainstorming," as Mr. Thiel put it, about a business they could start.
Mr. Thiel thought he could figure out how to find terrorists by using some of the paradigms developed at PayPal, which he helped found, to uncover patterns of fraud.
"I was just always super annoyed when, every time you go to the airport, you had to take off a shoe or you had to go through all this security theater, which was both somewhat taxing but probably had very little to do with actual security," Mr. Thiel said.
They brought in some software engineers.
"It was two and a half years after 9/11, and you're starting a software company with people who know nothing about the C.I.A. or any of these organizations," Mr. Thiel recalled.
It was all very cloak-and-dagger, in an Inspector Clouseau way. They decided to seek out John Poindexter, a retired rear admiral who was dubbed the godfather of modern surveillance; Admiral Poindexter had been forced to resign as President Ronald Reagan's national security adviser after the Iran-Contra scandal broke. After 9/11, he worked at the Pentagon on a surveillance program called Total Information Awareness.
During the meeting, Mr. Thiel said he felt he was in the presence of a medal-festooned, Machiavelli-loving member of the military brass out of "Dr. Strangelove," with "a LARPing vibe."
"We had a hunch that there was a room marked 'Super-Duper Computer,' and if you went inside, it was just an empty room," Mr. Thiel said. They feared their budding algorithm "would end up in a broom closet in the Pentagon," so they moved on.
In 2005, Mr. Thiel asked Mr. Karp to be the frontman of a company with few employees, no contracts, no investors, no office and no functional tech. "It charitably could have been described as a work in progress," Mr. Thiel said.
Mr. Karp and his motley crew got a bunch of desks and explained to clients that they were unmanned because the (fictional) engineers were coming in later.
"God knows why Peter picked me as co-founder," said Mr. Karp, who had to learn about coding on the job. "It was, in all modesty, a very good choice."
Mr. Thiel explained: "In some ways, Alex doesn't look like a salesperson from central casting you would send to the C.I.A. The formulation I always have is that if you're trying to sell something to somebody, the basic paradox is you have to be just like them, so they can trust you -- but you have to be very different from them so that they think you have something they don't have."
He said that Mr. Karp would not be suited to running Airbnb or Uber "or some mass consumer product." But Palantir, he said, "is connected with this great set of geopolitical questions about the Western world versus the rising authoritarian powers. So if we can get our governments to function somewhat better, it's a way to rebalance things in the direction of the West."
"Normally," Mr. Thiel continued, "these are bad ideas to have as a company. They're too abstract, too idealistic. But I think something like this was necessary in the Palantir case. If you didn't get some energy from thinking about these things, man, we would've sold the company after three years."
Mr. Karp could not have been more of an outsider, to Silicon Valley and to Washington. He and his engineers had to buy suits for their visits to the capital. "We had no believers," he said. "I kept telling Palantirians to call me Alex, and they kept calling me Dr. Karp. Then I realized the only thing they could believe in was that I had a Ph.D."
The first few years, when tech investors were more interested in programs that let you play games on your phone, were rough. "We were like pariahs," Mr. Karp said. "We couldn't get meetings. If they did, it was a favor to Peter."
With administrators in Washington, Mr. Karp recalled: "It was like, What is this Frankenstein monster doing in my office, making these wild claims that he can do better on things I have a huge budget for? How can it be that a freak-show motley crew of 12-year-old-looking mostly dudes, led by a pretty unique figure, from their perspective, would be able to do something with 1 percent of the money that we can't do with billions and billions of dollars?"
"There's nothing that we did at Palantir in building our software company that's in any M.B.A.-made playbook," Mr. Karp said. "Not one. That's why we have been doing so well."
He said that "the single most valuable education I had for business was sitting at the Sigmund Freud Institute, because I spent all my time with analysts." When he worked at the institute in Frankfurt while getting his doctorate, Mr. Karp said, he would smoke cigars and think about "the conscious subconscious."
"You'd be surprised how much analysts talk about their patients," he said. "It's disconcerting, actually. You just learn so much about how humans actually think." This knowledge helps him motivate his engineers, he said.
How It's Going
Mr. Karp said he likes to think of Palantir's workers as part of an artists' colony or a family; he doesn't use the word "staff." He enjoys interviewing prospective employees personally and prides himself on making hires in under two minutes. (He likes to have a few people around who can talk philosophy and literature with him, in German and French.)
"A lot of my populist-left politics actually bleed into my hiring stuff," he said. "If you ask the question that the Stanford, Harvard, Yale person has answered a thousand times, all you're learning is that the Stanford, Harvard, Yale person has learned to play the game."
Even if he gets a good answer from a "privileged" candidate and a bad answer from "the child of a mechanic," he might prefer the latter if "I have that feeling like I'm in the presence of talent."
He views Palantirians like the Goonies, underdogs winning in the end. "Most people at Palantir didn't get to do a lot of winning in high school," Mr. Karp said at a company gathering in Palo Alto, to laughter from the audience.
He thinks the United States is "very likely" to end up in a three-front war with China, Russia and Iran. So, he argues, we have to keep going full-tilt on autonomous weapons systems, because our adversaries will -- and they don't have the same moral considerations that we do.
"I think we're in an age when nuclear deterrent is actually less effective because the West is very unlikely to use anything like a nuclear bomb, whereas our adversaries might," he said. "Where you have technological parity but moral disparity, the actual disparity is much greater than people think."
"In fact," he added, "given that we have parity technologically but we don't have parity morally, they have a huge advantage."
Mr. Karp said that we are "very close" to terminator robots and at the threshold of "somewhat autonomous drones and devices like this being the most important instruments of war. You already see this in Ukraine."
Palantir has learned from some early setbacks.
In 2011, the hacker group Anonymous showed that Palantir employees were involved in a proposed misinformation campaign to discredit WikiLeaks and smear some of its supporters, including the journalist Glenn Greenwald. (Mr. Karp apologized to Mr. Greenwald.) Then, at least one Palantir employee helped Cambridge Analytica collect the Facebook data that the Trump campaign used ahead of the 2016 election.
A pro bono contract with the New Orleans Police Department starting in 2012 was dropped after six years amid criticism that its "predictive policing" eroded privacy and had a disparate impact on people of color.
"We reduced the rates of Black-on-Black death in New Orleans," Mr. Karp said, "and we have these critics who are like, 'Palantir is racist.' I don't know. The hundreds of people that are alive now don't think we're racist."
Mr. Carville, a New Orleans pooh-bah, asserted that the partnership ended because of "left-wing conspiracy theories."
Palantir's rough start in Silicon Valley came about, in part, because many objected to its work with the Department of Defense.
In 2017, Google won a Pentagon contract, Project Maven, to help the military use the company's A.I. to analyze footage from drones. Employees protested, sending a letter to the C.E.O., Sundar Pichai: "Google should not be in the business of war," it read. Soon after, Google backed away from the project.
In response, Palantir shaded Google in a tweet that quoted Mr. Karp: "Silicon Valley is telling the average American 'I will not support your defense needs' while selling products that are adversarial to America. That is a loser position." Palantir picked up the contract in 2019.
That same year, Mr. Thiel said that Google had a "treasonous" relationship with China. When Google opened an A.I. lab in 2017 in China, where there's little distinction between the civilian and the military, he argued, it was de facto helping China while refusing to help America. (That lab closed in 2019, but Google still does business with China, as does Apple.)
"When you have people working at consumer internet companies protesting us because we help the Navy SEALs and the U.S. military and were pro-border -- and you're becoming incredibly, mind-bogglingly rich, in part because America protects your right to export -- to me, you've lost the sheet of music," Mr. Karp said. "I don't think that's good for America."
Scott Galloway, a professor at New York University and an authority on tech companies, agrees that many Silicon Valley C.E.O.s have been virtue-signaling and pretending to care about the progressive political views of employees, but really would sell "their mother for a nickel."
"They're not there to save the whales," Mr. Galloway said. "They're there to make money."
He added: "Some of these big tech companies seem to be engaged in raising a generation of business leaders that just don't like America, who are very focused on everything that's wrong with America.
"Alex Karp is like, 'No, we'll cash the Pentagon's check and we'll collect data on our enemies.' He's gone the entirely opposite way, and I think it was a smart move."
Palantir's "spooky connotations," as one executive put it, dissipated quite a bit when the company went public in 2020 and took on more commercial business; its clients include Airbus, J.P. Morgan, IBM and Amazon.
Mr. Thiel said that while Palantir had a brief stint working on a pilot program for the National Security Agency, the company would not want to do any more work there: "The N.S.A., it hoovers up all the data in the world. As far as I can tell, there are incredible civil liberties violations where they're spying on everybody outside the U.S., basically. Then they're fortunately too incompetent to do much with the data."
The company has started turning a profit, and the stock has climbed. After a triumphant earnings report this month, Palantir's stock price jumped again.
"The share price gives us more street cred," Mr. Karp said.
In 2020, after 17 years in Silicon Valley, Mr. Karp moved Palantir's headquarters to Denver. "I was fleeing Silicon Valley because of what I viewed as the regressive side of progressive politics," he said.
He thinks that the valley has intensified class divisions in America.
"I don't believe you would have a Trump phenomenon without the excesses of Silicon Valley," he said. "Very, very wealthy people who support policies where they don't have to absorb the cost at all. Just also the general feeling that these people are not tethered to our society, and simultaneously are becoming billionaires."
"Not supporting the U.S. military," he said, in a tone of wonder. "I don't even know how you explain to the average American that you've become a multibillionaire and you won't supply your product to the D.O.D. It's jarringly corrosive. That's before you get to all the corrosive, divisive things that are on these platforms."
Akshay Krishnaswamy, Palantir's chief architect, agreed on their Silicon Valley critics: "You live in the liberal democratic West because of reasons, and those reasons don't come for free. They act like it doesn't have to be fought for or defended rigorously."
Mr. Karp said things had evolved. "I think there's a different perception of us now a little bit. A lot of that was tied to Trump, ICE work. It built up and we were definitely outsiders. We're still outsiders, but I feel less resistance for sure. And people have a better idea of what we do, maybe." He added, "Defense tech is a big part of Silicon Valley now."
The A.I. revolution, he said, will come with a knotty question: "How do you make sure the society's fair when the means of production have become means that only 1 percent of the population actually knows how to navigate?"
I asked if he agrees with Elon Musk that A.I. is eventually going to take everyone's jobs.
"I think what's actually dangerous," Mr. Karp replied, "is that people who understand how to use this are going to capture a lot of the value of the market and everyone else is going to feel left behind."
Mr. Karp's iconoclastic style and ironclad beliefs have inspired memes and attracted a flock of online acolytes -- some call him Papa Karp or Daddy Karp. He has no social media presence, but his online fans treat him like a mystic, obsessing over the tight white T-shirts he wears for earnings reports, his Norwegian ski outfits, his corkscrew hair, his Italian jeans and sunglasses and his extreme candor. (In a recent earnings report, Mr. Karp dismissed his rivals as "self-pleasuring" and engaging in "self-flagellation.")
He is not, as one colleague puts it, "a wife, kids and dog person."
"I tend to have long-term relationships," he told me. "And I tend to end up with very high IQ women," including some who tell him he's talking nonsense.
He prefers what he calls a German attitude toward relationships, where "you have a much greater degree of privacy," he said, with separate bedrooms and "your own world, your own thoughts, and you get to be alone a lot." There is much less requirement to "micro-lie" about where you were or whom you were with.
I asked Mr. Karp about his 2013 quote to Forbes that "the only time I'm not thinking about Palantir is when I'm swimming, practicing qigong or during sexual activity."
He frowned, noting: "It should be tai chi. I don't know why people always conflate tai chi with qigong. Yes, that was in my early days, when we were a pre-public company and I was allowed to admit I had sexual activity."
So it's true that the notion of settling down and raising a family gives him hives?
"There's some truth in that," he said. "This is how I like to live. See, I'm sitting here doing my freedom thing. I train. I do distance shooting." He reads. "Who else has a Len Deighton spy novel next to a book on Confucian philosophy?"
Many of the doyennes of Washington society would love to snag the eligible Mr. Karp for a dinner party. He told me he has "a great social life." But when I asked him what that is, he replied, "First of all, I'm a cross-country skier, so then I do all this training."
He continued, "To have an elite VO2 max, an elite level of strength, it's just consistency and the Norwegian-style training method."
Some who know Mr. Karp said that the happiest they had ever seen him was last year when Mike Allen reported for Axios that the C.E.O.'s body fat was an impressive 7 percent.
Mr. Karp may be able to do more than 20 miles of cross-country skiing without being out of breath, but there are some sports at which, he admitted, he's "a complete zero. For example, ball sports. I really suck at them."
Unlike Mr. Musk and other tech lords, Mr. Karp is not into micro-dosing ketamine or any other drug. "My drug is athletics," he said. "I love drinking, but now I've moved to drinking very little because what I've noticed is if you're traveling all the time, the alcohol, it really affects your brain." He's on the road about 240 days a year.
Mr. Karp said of his dyslexia: "I think this is not getting less, it's likely getting more. In 40 years, I'll be unable to read."
In New Hampshire, we had a lunch of lobster pasta -- he kept his panic button on the table -- and then went shooting on his property. He expertly hit targets with a 9-millimeter pistol from 264 yards. When an aide suggested that a photographer not shoot Mr. Karp in the act of shooting, he overruled the idea.
"Actually, honestly, guns would be much better regulated if you had someone who knows guns," he said. "I'm not a hunter. I'm an artist with a gun."
(Later, Mr. Karp pointed out that he had been shooting at targets that were about twice as far from him as Mr. Trump was from his would-be assassin. "There's something really wrong with security for our future president, or maybe not future president," he said. "All these people need a different level of security.")
Mr. Karp believes the Democrats need to project more strength: "Are we tough enough to scare our adversaries so we don't go to war? Do the Chinese, Russians and Persians think we're strong? The president needs to tell them if you cross these lines, this is what we're going to do, and you have to then enforce it."
He thinks that in America and in Europe, the inability or unwillingness to secure borders fuels authoritarianism.
"I see it as pretty simple: You have an open border, you get the far right," he said. "And once you get them, you can't get rid of them. We saw it in Brexit, we see it with Le Pen in France, you see it across Europe. Now you see it in Germany."
"They should be much stricter," he continued. That, he said, "is the only reason we have the rise of the right, the only reason. When people tell you we need an open border, then they should also tell you why they're electing right-wing politicians, because they are."
"The biggest mistake -- and it's not one politician, it's a generation -- was believing there was something bigoted about having a border, and there are just a lot of people who believe that," he said.
Weeks later, we were back in the Washington office, which is dubbed Rivendell, after a valley in Tolkien's Middle-earth, and is filled with tech goodies like a Ping-Pong table, a pool table and a towering replica of Chewbacca.
We picked up our conversation about politics, talking about the swap of President Biden and Vice President Harris, the rise of JD Vance, the assassination attempt and the changed political landscape.
Mr. Karp concurred with his friend Mr. Carville on the problem of drawing men to the Democratic Party, saying, "If this is going to be a party complaining about guys and to guys all the time, it's not going to succeed."
He continued: "The biggest problem with hard political correctness is it makes it impossible to deal with unfortunate facts. The unfortunate fact here is that this election is really going to turn on 'What percentage of males can the Democrats still get?"'
Describing himself as "progressive but not woke," he said, "We are so unwilling to talk to the actual constituents that are voting for the Democratic Party who would probably strongly prefer policies that are more moderate."
Given Mr. Karp's blended racial identity, I wondered how he felt about Mr. Trump's attack on the vice president's heritage.
"I think people are most fascinated by the fact of this whole Black-Jewish thing," he said. "I tend to be less fascinated by that."
He added: "I think that people always expect me somehow to see the world in one way or another, and I don't really understand what that means. I see the world the way I see it. I think, at the end of the day, if people want to choose what their identity is, then they choose it, and that's their definition."
I note that he recently made an elite list of Black billionaires.
He shrugged. "Some Black people think I'm Black, some don't," he said. "I view me as me. And I'm very honored to be honored by all groups that will have me."
He added: "I do not believe racism is the most important issue in this country. I think class is determinate, and I'm mystified by how often we talk about race. I'm not saying it doesn't exist. I'm not saying people don't have biases. Of course, we all do, but the primary thing that's bad for you in this culture is to be born poor of any color."
He said he would support class-based affirmative action and declared himself "pro draft."
"I think part of the reason we have a massive cleavage in our culture is, at the end of the day, by and large, only people who are middle- and working-class do all the fighting," he said.
Since I had last seen him, Mr. Karp had gotten caught between two of the battling billionaires of Silicon Valley, lords of the cloud vituperously fighting in public over the possible restoration of Donald Trump.
According to an account in Puck, Mr. Karp was onstage with the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman at a conference last month in Sun Valley, Idaho, sponsored by the investment bank Allen & Company, when Mr. Hoffman called Mr. Thiel's support for Mr. Trump "a moral issue." Speaking up from his seat in the audience, Mr. Thiel sarcastically thanked Mr. Hoffman for funding lawsuits against Mr. Trump, which allowed the candidate to claim that he is "a martyr."
Mr. Hoffman snapped back, "Yeah, I wish I had made him an actual martyr" -- an unfortunate comment given what would later happen in Butler, Pa.
I asked Mr. Karp whether the encounter was as uncomfortable as it seemed.
"Well, I'm used to being uncomfortable," he said. "I'm going to stick with my friends. I just feel the same way I always feel when Peter is under attack, which is: 'This is my friend. I feel that my friend is being attacked, and I will defend him."'
The fancy digital clock behind Mr. Karp's desk, which tells time in German, had gone from "Es ist zehn nach drei" to "Es ist halb vier."
It was time to go.
Confirm or Deny
Maureen Dowd: You run the Twitter account Alex Karp's Hair.
Alex Karp: I wish.
Your favorite movie is the classic kung fu flick "The 36th Chamber of Shaolin."
One of my favorite movies.
You have 10 houses around the world, from Alaska to Vermont, from Norway to New Hampshire.
You have to reframe that as I have 10 cross-country ski huts.
You love the idea of Peter Thiel backing Olympic-style games where the athletes will dope out in the open.
Deny. I want the best cross-country skiers to win without doping.
You love to watch spy shows and German movies, and one of your favorite filmmakers is Rainer Werner Fassbinder.
Confirm.
You have 20 identical pairs of swim goggles in your office.
No longer. I used to. I gave up swimming. There's an emptiness to it.
You commissioned a French comic book, "Palantir: L'Indépendance," with yourself as the protagonist.
Oui!
You starred in a movie by Hanna Laura Klar in 1998, "I Have Two Faces," where you looked like a young Woody Allen.
I look better than Woody Allen.
Your dissertation is about how people transmit aggression subconsciously in language, presaging the rise of the right in America and Europe.
Often, the more charismatic ideologies were, the more irrational they were.
The dissertation touched on expressing taboo wishes. Do you want to share some of those?
I would love to express taboo wishes with you, but not to your audience.
Photograph Top left and right, Alex Karp at home practicing tai chi. Left, a Ukrainian government handout image of Mr. Karp in 2022 with Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelensky, left, and Mykhailo Fedorov, at the time a deputy prime minister, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN DAVID BROWN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE); Center, Alex Karp doing target practice on his property. Right, a protest in 2019 outside the office of Palantir Technologies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN DAVID BROWN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (ST10-ST11) This article appeared in print on page ST10, ST11.

Subject: Software; Data analysis; September 11 terrorist attacks-2001

Location: China; Silicon Valley-California; Russia; United States--US; Palo Alto California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/17/style/alex-karp-palantir.html

Title: To Save Your Country, Scare the Enemy:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 18, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3093966996

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/save-your-country-scare-enemy/docview/3093966996/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

5 People Are Indicted For Providing Drug That Killed TV Actor: [National Desk]

Author: Stevens, Matt

Publication info: Stevens, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/5-people-are-indicted-providing-drug-that-killed/docview/3093355989/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Five people have been charged with a conspiracy to distribute the powerful anesthetic that led to the death of the "Friends" star. Three of them are pleading guilty.
Matthew Perry's personal assistant, two doctors and two others have been indicted and charged with providing the ketamine that caused the death of Mr. Perry, a star on the television show "Friends," the authorities said on Thursday.
In documents filed in federal court in California, prosecutors said that Mr. Perry's assistant and an acquaintance had worked with two doctors and a drug dealer to procure tens of thousands of dollars worth of ketamine for Mr. Perry, who had long struggled with substance abuse and addiction.
The actor, who gained sitcom superstardom as Chandler Bing on "Friends," was discovered floating face down in a hot tub at his home in Los Angeles on Oct. 28. The Los Angeles County medical examiner's office said in an autopsy report that Mr. Perry, 54, had died of "acute effects of ketamine."
An indictment filed in federal court on Wednesday detailed grand jury charges against Jasveen Sangha, who prosecutors said was known as "the Ketamine Queen," and Dr. Salvador Plasencia, known as "Dr. P."
Ms. Sangha maintained a "stash house" in North Hollywood, the indictment said, and Dr. Plasencia, a physician at an urgent care center, was among those who worked to get the ketamine to Mr. Perry despite knowing he had a history of drug abuse.
Court documents say that Mr. Perry's personal assistant, Kenneth Iwamasa, injected him with at least 27 shots of ketamine in the five days leading up to his death, including at least three on the day he died. An indictment said that the defendants used coded language to discuss drug deals, referring to bottles of ketamine as "Dr Pepper," "cans" and "bots." And it said that when Dr. Plasencia texted with another doctor about how much to charge Mr. Perry for ketamine, he wrote, "I wonder how much this moron will pay" and "Lets find out."
Ketamine, a powerful anesthetic with psychedelic properties, is increasingly being used as an alternative therapy for depression, anxiety and other mental health problems. It is also used, and abused, recreationally.
Three people have already pleaded guilty in the case, officials said.
Mr. Iwamasa pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine causing death.
Dr. Mark Chavez, who admitted to selling ketamine to Dr. Plasencia, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine. Dr. Chavez obtained ketamine by making false representations to a wholesale ketamine distributor and by submitting a fraudulent prescription in the name of a former patient, officials said.
Erik Fleming, an acquaintance of Mr. Perry's, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine and one count of distribution of ketamine resulting in death, officials said. They said he admitted to obtaining the ketamine from Ms. Sangha and distributing 50 vials of ketamine to Mr. Iwamasa.
"We're sending a clear message," Martin Estrada, the United States attorney for the Central District of California, said at a Thursday news conference in downtown Los Angeles. "If you are in the business of selling dangerous drugs, we will hold you accountable for the deaths that you cause."
The charges against Ms. Sangha and Dr. Plasencia include conspiracy to distribute ketamine; distribution of ketamine resulting in death; possession with intent to distribute methamphetamine; and altering and falsifying records related to a federal investigation.
If they are convicted, Ms. Sangha, 41, faces between 10 years and life in prison while Dr. Plasencia, 42, faces up to 10 years in prison for each ketamine-related count and up to 20 years for each count of falsifying records.
On Thursday afternoon, prosecutors announced that both Ms. Sangha and Dr. Plasencia had been arraigned and had pleaded not guilty. A judge ordered Ms. Sangha jailed without bond and set Dr. Plasencia's bond at $ 100,000; their trials were scheduled for October.
Mr. Iwamasa, 59, faces up to 15 years in prison and Mr. Fleming, 54, up to 25 years. Dr. Chavez, 54, has been charged in an information pursuant to a plea agreement and will be arraigned on Aug. 30; he faces up to 10 years in federal prison.
Attempts to reach the defendants were not immediately successful.
Anne Milgram, the head of the federal Drug Enforcement Administration, said at the news conference that Mr. Perry had sought treatment for depression and anxiety and, after visiting a local clinic, had become addicted to intravenous ketamine.
Mr. Perry wrote about his history of drug and alcohol addiction in a memoir. Officials declined to explain whether the ketamine treatment he initially received was legitimate and would not say how he became connected to Dr. Plasencia and Dr. Chavez.
"When clinic doctors refused to increase his dosage, he turned to unscrupulous doctors who saw Perry as a way to make quick money," Ms. Milgram said of the actor. "Dr. Plasencia and Dr. Chavez violated the oath they took to care for their patients. Instead of do no harm, they did harm so that they could make more money."
The autopsy report said that Mr. Perry had been on ketamine infusion therapy but that the level of ketamine found in his blood was equivalent to the amount that would be used during general anesthesia.
Dr. Plasencia was accused in the indictment of misleading officials about Mr. Perry's treatment. Prosecutors said he "provided a falsified document purportedly showing the medical treatment plan for Victim M.P." that claimed he was being given a maximum dose of 60 milligrams over 24 hours. They added that, "in fact, as defendant Plasencia then well knew, defendant Plasencia injected Victim M.P. with ketamine dosages far in excess of 60 milligrams."
The police in Los Angeles acknowledged this year that they were working with the D.E.A. to investigate the source of Mr. Perry's ketamine and whether it was obtained legally. The United States Postal Inspection Service assisted with the investigation.
"The Postal Service will not be an unwitting accomplice to anyone using the U.S. mail to distribute illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia, said Matthew Shields, the acting inspector in charge of the service's Los Angeles division.
In the weeks leading to Mr. Perry's death, the indictment and law enforcement officials said, Dr. Plasencia sold roughly $ 55,000 worth of ketamine to Mr. Iwamasa and personally injected Mr. Perry with the drug at Mr. Perry's residence.
During one visit, a large dose caused Mr. Perry to "freeze up," prosecutors said, causing the doctor to advise against a similarly sized injection in the future. Dr. Plasencia also injected Mr. Perry with ketamine while inside a vehicle in a public parking lot in Long Beach, Calif., according to court papers.
At one point, the doctors charged Mr. Perry $ 2,000 for a vial of ketamine that cost Dr. Chavez roughly $ 12, Ms. Milgram said.
Court documents also outlined the days leading up to Mr. Perry's death.
Mr. Fleming, who shared a mutual friend with Mr. Perry, texted him offering to sell him ketamine for a "good price" as long as he received a "fair tip for bringing it." Mr. Fleming later told Mr. Iwamasa that his source, Ms. Sangha, dealt with "high end" celebrities.
"I guarantee it's going to be amazing," Mr. Fleming texted Mr. Iwamasa.
Mr. Fleming delivered a sample vial to Mr. Perry's home, and then Mr. Iwamasa agreed to buy 25 vials, advancing Mr. Fleming $ 500 for "logistics." He delivered 25 more vials on Oct. 24, four days before Mr. Perry's death.
In March, Ms. Sangha was charged with possession of methamphetamine with the intent to distribute; she has pleaded not guilty. Law enforcement raided her home in North Hollywood that month, seizing 79 bottles of liquid ketamine and nearly 2,000 grams of methamphetamine pills, along with other drugs, according to court documents.
The two doctors charged in Mr. Perry's death have known each other for years, one of them said in a post on social media.
Dr. Chavez has built a brand for himself as what he calls "The Health MD," describing himself online as a longevity coach, medical doctor, entrepreneur and fitness trailblazer. Having started his career as a medical chemist, Dr. Chavez recently listed himself as a medical director at a company specializing in regenerative medicine. His website offers a 12-week weight loss program for $ 1,500 involving the drug Ozempic.
Dr. Plasencia described Dr. Chavez on LinkedIn as a mentor of his for 15 years, writing that Dr. Chavez had been "extremely helpful to me as I navigated my own path as a medical entrepreneur."
Jill Cowan contributed reporting from Los Angeles, Julia Jacobs from New York and Glenn Thrush from Washington. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Jill Cowan contributed reporting from Los Angeles, Julia Jacobs from New York and Glenn Thrush from Washington. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Matthew Perry's personal assistant, two doctors and two others were indicted. This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Autopsies; Law enforcement; Drug trafficking; Weight control; Ketamine; Press conferences; Indictments; Television programs; Mail fraud; Conspiracy; Prisons; Methamphetamine; Substance abuse treatment; Drug dosages

Location: New York; United States--US; California; Los Angeles California; North Hollywood California

People: Thrush, Glenn; Perry, Matthew

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/15/arts/television/matthew-perry-charges-ketamine.html

Title: 5 People Are Indicted For Providing Drug That Killed TV Actor:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 16, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3093355989

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/5-people-are-indicted-providing-drug-that-killed/docview/3093355989/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Matthew Perry’s Assistant and Doctors Charged With Getting Him Ketamine

Author: Stevens, Matt

Publication info: Stevens, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/matthew-perry-s-assistant-doctors-charged-with/docview/3093272377/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Matthew Perry’s personal assistant, two doctors and two others have been indicted and charged with providing the ketamine that caused the death of Perry, a star on the television show “Friends,” authorities said Thursday.
In documents filed in federal court in California, prosecutors said that Perry’s assistant and an acquaintance had worked with two doctors and a drug dealer to procure tens of thousands of dollars worth of ketamine for Perry, who had long struggled with substance abuse and addiction.
The actor, who gained sitcom superstardom as Chandler Bing on “Friends,” was discovered floating face down in a hot tub at his home in Los Angeles on Oct. 28. The Los Angeles County medical examiner’s office said in an autopsy report that Perry, 54, had died of “acute effects of ketamine.”
An indictment filed in federal court Wednesday detailed grand jury charges against Jasveen Sangha, who prosecutors said was known as “the Ketamine Queen,” and Salvador Plasencia, known as “Dr. P.”
Sangha maintained a “stash house” in North Hollywood, the indictment said, and Plasencia, a physician at an urgent care center, was among those who worked to get the ketamine to Perry despite knowing he had a history of drug abuse.
Court documents say that Perry’s personal assistant, Kenneth Iwamasa, injected him with at least 27 shots of ketamine in the five days leading up to his death, including at least three on the day he died. An indictment said that the defendants used coded language to discuss drug deals, referring to bottles of ketamine as “Dr Pepper,” “cans” and “bots.” And it said that when Plasencia texted with another doctor about how much to charge Perry for ketamine, he wrote, “I wonder how much this moron will pay” and “Lets find out.”
Ketamine, a powerful anesthetic with psychedelic properties, is increasingly being used as an alternative therapy for depression, anxiety and other mental health problems. It is also used, and abused, recreationally.
Three people have already pleaded guilty in the case, officials said.
Iwamasa pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine causing death.
Dr. Mark Chavez, who admitted to selling ketamine to Plasencia, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine. Chavez obtained ketamine by making false representations to a wholesale ketamine distributor and by submitting a fraudulent prescription in the name of a former patient, officials said.
Erik Fleming, an acquaintance of Perry’s, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine and one count of distribution of ketamine resulting in death, officials said. They said he admitted to obtaining the ketamine from Sangha and distributing 50 vials of ketamine to Iwamasa.
“We’re sending a clear message,” Martin Estrada, the U.S. attorney for the Central District of California, said at a Thursday news conference in downtown Los Angeles. “If you are in the business of selling dangerous drugs, we will hold you accountable for the deaths that you cause.”
The charges against Sangha and Plasencia include conspiracy to distribute ketamine; distribution of ketamine resulting in death; possession with intent to distribute methamphetamine; and altering and falsifying records related to a federal investigation.
If they are convicted, Sangha, 41, faces between 10 years and life in prison while Plasencia, 42, faces up to 10 years in prison for each ketamine-related count and up to 20 years for each count of falsifying records.
Thursday afternoon, prosecutors announced that both Sangha and Plasencia had been arraigned and had pleaded not guilty. A judge ordered Sangha jailed without bond and set Plasencia’s bond at $100,000; their trials were scheduled for October.
Iwamasa, 59, faces up to 15 years in prison and Fleming, 54, up to 25 years. Chavez, 54, has been charged in an information pursuant to a plea agreement and will be arraigned Aug. 30; he faces up to 10 years in federal prison.
Attempts to reach the defendants were not immediately successful.
Anne Milgram, the head of the federal Drug Enforcement Administration, said at the news conference that Perry had sought treatment for depression and anxiety and, after visiting a local clinic, had become addicted to intravenous ketamine.
Perry wrote about his history of drug and alcohol addiction in a memoir. Officials declined to explain whether the ketamine treatment he initially received was legitimate and would not say how he became connected to Plasencia and Chavez.
“When clinic doctors refused to increase his dosage, he turned to unscrupulous doctors who saw Perry as a way to make quick money,” Milgram said of the actor. “Dr. Plasencia and Dr. Chavez violated the oath they took to care for their patients. Instead of do no harm, they did harm so that they could make more money.”
The autopsy report said that Perry had been on ketamine infusion therapy but that the level of ketamine found in his blood was equivalent to the amount that would be used during general anesthesia.
Plasencia was accused in the indictment of misleading officials about Perry’s treatment. Prosecutors said he “provided a falsified document purportedly showing the medical treatment plan for Victim M.P.” that claimed he was being given a maximum dose of 60 milligrams over 24 hours. They added that, “in fact, as defendant Plasencia then well knew, defendant Plasencia injected Victim M.P. with ketamine dosages far in excess of 60 milligrams.”
Police in Los Angeles acknowledged this year that they were working with the DEA to investigate the source of Perry’s ketamine and whether it was obtained legally. The U.S. Postal Inspection Service assisted with the investigation.
“The Postal Service will not be an unwitting accomplice to anyone using the U.S. mail to distribute illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia,” said Matthew Shields, the acting inspector in charge of the service’s Los Angeles division.
In the weeks leading to Perry’s death, the indictment and law enforcement officials said, Plasencia sold roughly $55,000 worth of ketamine to Iwamasa and personally injected Perry with the drug at Perry’s residence.
During one visit, a large dose caused Perry to “freeze up,” prosecutors said, causing the doctor to advise against a similarly sized injection in the future. Plasencia also injected Perry with ketamine while inside a vehicle in a public parking lot in Long Beach, California, according to court papers.
At one point, the doctors charged Perry $2,000 for a vial of ketamine that cost Chavez roughly $12, Milgram said.
Court documents also outlined the days leading up to Perry’s death.
Fleming, who shared a mutual friend with Perry, texted him offering to sell him ketamine for a “good price” as long as he received a “fair tip for bringing it.” Fleming later told Iwamasa that his source, Sangha, dealt with “high end” celebrities.
“I guarantee it’s going to be amazing,” Fleming texted Iwamasa.
Fleming delivered a sample vial to Perry’s home, and then Iwamasa agreed to buy 25 vials, advancing Fleming $500 for “logistics.” He delivered 25 more vials Oct. 24, four days before Perry’s death.
In March, Sangha was charged with possession of methamphetamine with the intent to distribute; she has pleaded not guilty. Law enforcement raided her home in North Hollywood that month, seizing 79 bottles of liquid ketamine and nearly 2,000 grams of methamphetamine pills, along with other drugs, according to court documents.
The two doctors charged in Perry’s death have known each other for years, one of them said in a post on social media.
Chavez has built a brand for himself as what he calls “The Health MD,” describing himself online as a longevity coach, medical doctor, entrepreneur and fitness trailblazer. Having started his career as a medical chemist, Chavez recently listed himself as a medical director at a company specializing in regenerative medicine. His website offers a 12-week weight loss program for $1,500 involving the drug Ozempic.
Plasencia described Chavez on LinkedIn as a mentor of his for 15 years, writing that Chavez had been “extremely helpful to me as I navigated my own path as a medical entrepreneur.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Autopsies; Law enforcement; Drug trafficking; Weight control; Ketamine; Press conferences; Indictments; Television programs; Mail fraud; Conspiracy; Prisons; Methamphetamine; Substance abuse treatment; Drug dosages

Location: New York; United States--US; California; Los Angeles California; North Hollywood California

People: Perry, Matthew

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Office Of The Chief Medical Examiner Of The City Of New York; California; Suits And Litigation (Civil); United States Postal Inspection Service; Social Media; Postal Service And Post Offices; Frauds And Swindling; Deaths (Fatalities); Psychedelic And Hallucinogenic Drugs; Iwamasa, Kenneth; Therapy And Rehabilitation; Methamphetamines; Plasencia, Salvador; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Los Angeles County (Calif); Drug Enforcement Administration; Arts; Mental Health And Disorders; Prisons And Prisoners; United States; Entertainment; Ketamine (Drug); Linkedin Corporation; Home Health Care; Postal Service (Us); Perry, Matthew; Dr Pepper Snapple Group; Depression (Mental); Alternative And Complementary Medicine; Los Angeles (Calif); Entrepreneurship; Long Beach (Calif); Anesthesia And Anesthetics; Sangha, Jasveen; Television; Addiction (Psychology); Doctors

Title: Matthew Perry’s Assistant and Doctors Charged With Getting Him Ketamine

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 16, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-16T02:07:09Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3093272377

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/matthew-perry-s-assistant-doctors-charged-with/docview/3093272377/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Starbucks Ousts Chief For Leader Of Chipotle: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kaye, Danielle; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Kaye, Danielle; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/starbucks-ousts-chief-leader-chipotle/docview/3092528520/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The coffee chain said that Chipotle's chief executive would replace Laxman Narasimhan, who is leaving the company after just over a year at the helm.
Starbucks, facing slowing sales for its lattes and Frappuccinos, a slumping stock and agitation from activist investors, abruptly ousted its chief executive on Tuesday, replacing him with the chief executive of Chipotle Mexican Grill.
Brian Niccol, who has held the top position at Chipotle since 2018, will take the helm of Starbucks next month, the company said. He will replace Laxman Narasimhan, whose relatively brief tenure began in March last year, when he took over from Howard Schultz and became the first chief executive to come from outside the company. Mr. Niccol will also become board chairman. Starbucks' chief financial officer, Rachel Ruggeri, will step in as interim chief executive until Sept. 9.
Analysts and investors largely cheered the move with Starbucks' stock soaring more than 21 percent in morning trading.
The swift change in leadership at the coffee giant comes as it grapples with weakening results in some of its biggest markets, particularly the United States and China. Since the start of Mr. Narasimhan's tenure, Starbucks shares have fallen more than 20 percent.
The steep drop in the stock and softening results in recent quarters had opened the door for activist investment groups to enter. Elliott Investment Management, which started building a position in the stock this summer, began pushing the company to make changes. Last week, a second activist group, Starboard Value, joined the fray.
The company framed the leadership change as led by its board of directors, not driven by the activist investors.
In an interview with CNBC, Mellody Hobson, who is stepping aside as board chair to become lead independent director in September when Mr. Niccol assumes his role, said the board started to consider a leadership change a couple months ago. It ultimately decided Mr. Niccol would be "the right leader for this moment" -- and did not consult Elliott or other shareholders about the change, Ms. Hobson said.
"You can't be a weather vane with all the people around you who have an opinion," Ms. Hobson told CNBC, referring to opposition the company has faced in the past year. "They don't know everything that you know sitting in the boardroom."
In a statement, Elliott said it viewed the announcement "as a transformational step forward for the company."
The sudden leadership shift at Starbucks is not only a blemish for the board of directors, but also for Mr. Schultz, the company's longtime leader and one of its largest individual shareholders.
Mr. Narasimhan, who is leaving Starbucks effective immediately, was handpicked by the board and Mr. Schultz in the fall of 2022 after an exhaustive search. The former chief executive of Reckitt, which owns brands like Lysol and Air Wick, Mr. Narasimhan had little-to-no background in restaurant chains. He trained under Mr. Schultz and other leaders for months before officially taking over the top spot.
It was up to Mr. Narasimhan to execute on a "reinvention" strategy that Mr. Schultz had created highlighting increased use of automation and aggressive growth of stores in markets like China.
In recent quarters, as the company struggled with operations and slowing sales in China and the United States, Mr. Schultz, who does not hold a role at the company or on its board, was quick to criticize the company's performance and leadership.
"Over the past five days, I have been asked by people inside and outside the company for my thoughts on what should be done," Mr. Schultz wrote in a LinkedIn post three months ago. "I have emphasized that the company's fix needs to begin at home: U.S. operations are the primary reason for the company's fall from grace."
"Senior leaders -- including board members -- need to spend more time with those who wear the green apron," he continued.
Mr. Niccol has emerged in recent years as one of the top restaurant leaders in the industry. After spending about three years at the top of Taco Bell, part of Yum! Brands, Mr. Niccol took over as chief executive of Chipotle in early 2018. He shifted much of the brand's growth toward drive-through restaurants and elevated its loyalty program. Chipotle's stock has soared from around $ 6 in 2018 to a recent record high of more than $ 65 this summer.
On Tuesday, Chipotle's stock fell nearly 12 percent as the company said its chief operating officer, Scott Boatwright, would act as interim C.E.O.
Still, Starbucks, with more than $ 36 billion in annual revenues and 38,000 stores across more than 80 countries, towers over Chipotle's $ 10 billion in annual revenues and 3,500 restaurants -- a business that is largely in the United States.
One of the big questions facing Mr. Niccol when he officially joins the company next month is what aspects of the Starbucks plan he will keep or change, particularly with regard to China. Some analysts have suggested Starbucks should either slow down its growth there as the economy struggles or spin the market off entirely into a separately traded entity.
And while Wall Street analysts and investors cheered on the news of Mr. Niccol taking the top job at Starbucks, many cautioned that Starbucks' troubles run deep.
Mr. Niccol is "inheriting a more challenged and complex organization in Starbucks," Sharon Zackfia, an analyst at the investment bank William Blair, wrote in a note on Tuesday morning. "We suspect the path to recapturing lost sales will be less linear than it was at Chipotle."
Starbucks has also faced mounting pressure from union officials and activists who accuse the company of illegally retaliating against workers and resisting contract negotiations, in the midst of a nationwide union campaign.
Workers United, part of the Service Employees International Union, represents workers at more than 400 of Starbucks' roughly 10,000 company-owned stores in the United States.
Under Mr. Schultz -- who characterized union organizers as outside forces and urged employees not to be "distracted" by them -- the company largely resisted engaging with the union. By contrast, Mr. Narasimhan appeared to have taken a more pragmatic approach. The company began bargaining a framework for a labor contract with union stores this year and had said that it hoped to wrap up the bargaining process with individual stores by the end of the year. In a statement, Workers United said it planned to continue to "work with Starbucks" to "reach fair collective bargaining agreements in the coming months."
Mr. Schultz said in a statement that Mr. Niccol is "the leader Starbucks needs at a pivotal moment in its history."
Noam Scheiber contributed reporting.
Noam Scheiber contributed reporting.
Photograph Brian Niccol, who has held the top position at Chipotle Mexican Grill since 2018, will take over at Starbucks next month. The swift leadership change comes as the coffee giant faces slowing sales in some of its biggest markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Investments; Activists; Coffee; Stockholders; Collective bargaining; Coffeehouses; Leadership; Restaurants; Contract negotiations; Investors; Boards of directors; Shareholder activism; Chief executive officers

Business indexing term: Subject: Stockholders Collective bargaining Coffeehouses Leadership Restaurants Contract negotiations Boards of directors Shareholder activism Chief executive officers

Location: United States--US; China

People: Niccol, Brian; Scheiber, Noam; Narasimhan, Laxman

Company / organization: Name: Chipotle Mexican Grill; NAICS: 722513; Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/13/business/starbucks-ceo-brian-niccol-chipotle.html

Title: Starbucks Ousts Chief For Leader Of Chipotle:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 14, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Ti mes Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3092528520

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/starbucks-ousts-chief-leader-chipotle/docview/3092528520/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Starbucks Replaces CEO With Chipotle’s Brian Niccol

Author: Kaye, Danielle; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Kaye, Danielle; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/starbucks-replaces-ceo-with-chipotle-s-brian/docview/3092469422/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Starbucks, facing slowing sales for its lattes and Frappuccinos, a slumping stock and agitation from activist investors, abruptly ousted its CEO on Tuesday, replacing him with the CEO of Chipotle Mexican Grill.
Brian Niccol, who has held the top position at Chipotle since 2018, will take the helm of Starbucks next month, the company said. He will replace Laxman Narasimhan, whose relatively brief tenure began in March last year, when he took over from Howard Schultz and became the first CEO to come from outside the company. Niccol will also become board chair. Starbucks’ chief financial officer, Rachel Ruggeri, will step in as interim CEO until Sept. 9.
Analysts and investors largely cheered the move, with Starbucks’ stock soaring more than 21% in morning trading.
The swift change in leadership at the coffee giant comes as it grapples with weakening results in some of its biggest markets, particularly the United States and China. Since the start of Narasimhan’s tenure, Starbucks shares have fallen more than 20%.
The steep drop in the stock and softening results in recent quarters had opened the door for activist investment groups to enter. Elliott Investment Management, which started building a position in the stock this summer, began pushing the company to make changes. Last week, a second activist group, Starboard Value, joined the fray.
The company framed the leadership change as led by its board of directors, not driven by the activist investors.
In an interview with CNBC, Mellody Hobson, who is stepping aside as board chair to become lead independent director in September when Niccol assumes his role, said the board started to consider a leadership change a couple months ago. It ultimately decided Niccol would be “the right leader for this moment” — and did not consult Elliott or other shareholders about the change, Hobson said.
“You can’t be a weather vane with all the people around you who have an opinion,” Hobson told CNBC, referring to opposition the company has faced in the past year. “They don’t know everything that you know sitting in the boardroom.”
In a statement, Elliott said it viewed the announcement “as a transformational step forward for the company.”
The sudden leadership shift at Starbucks is not only a blemish for the board of directors, but also for Schultz, the company’s longtime leader and one of its largest individual shareholders.
Narasimhan, who is leaving Starbucks effective immediately, was handpicked by the board and Schultz in the fall of 2022 after an exhaustive search. The former CEO of Reckitt, which owns brands including Lysol and Air Wick, Narasimhan had little-to-no background in restaurant chains. He trained under Schultz and other leaders for months before officially taking over the top spot.
It was up to Narasimhan to execute on a “reinvention” strategy that Schultz had created highlighting increased use of automation and aggressive growth of stores in markets such as China.
In recent quarters, as the company struggled with operations and slowing sales in China and the United States, Schultz, who does not hold a role at the company or on its board, was quick to criticize the company’s performance and leadership.
“Over the past five days, I have been asked by people inside and outside the company for my thoughts on what should be done,” Schultz wrote in a LinkedIn post three months ago. “I have emphasized that the company’s fix needs to begin at home: U.S. operations are the primary reason for the company’s fall from grace.”
“Senior leaders — including board members — need to spend more time with those who wear the green apron,” he continued.
Niccol has emerged in recent years as one of the top restaurant leaders in the industry. After spending about three years at the top of Taco Bell, part of Yum! Brands, Niccol took over as CEO of Chipotle in early 2018. He shifted much of the brand’s growth toward drive-through restaurants and elevated its loyalty program. Chipotle’s stock has soared from around $6 in 2018 to a recent record high of more than $65 this summer.
On Tuesday, Chipotle’s stock fell nearly 12% as the company said its chief operating officer, Scott Boatwright, would act as interim CEO.
Still, Starbucks, with more than $36 billion in annual revenues and 38,000 stores across more than 80 countries, towers over Chipotle’s $10 billion in annual revenues and 3,500 restaurants — a business that is largely in the United States.
One of the big questions facing Niccol when he officially joins the company next month is what aspects of the Starbucks plan he will keep or change, particularly with regard to China. Some analysts have suggested Starbucks should either slow down its growth there as the economy struggles or spin the market off entirely into a separately traded entity.
And while Wall Street analysts and investors cheered on the news of Niccol taking the top job at Starbucks, many cautioned that Starbucks’ troubles run deep.
Niccol is “inheriting a more challenged and complex organization in Starbucks,” Sharon Zackfia, an analyst at the investment bank William Blair, wrote in a note Tuesday morning. “We suspect the path to recapturing lost sales will be less linear than it was at Chipotle.”
Starbucks has also faced mounting pressure from union officials and activists who accuse the company of illegally retaliating against workers and resisting contract negotiations in the midst of a nationwide union campaign.
Workers United, part of the Service Employees International Union, represents workers at more than 400 of Starbucks’ roughly 10,000 company-owned stores in the United States.
Under Schultz — who characterized union organizers as outside forces and urged employees not to be “distracted” by them — the company largely resisted engaging with the union. By contrast, Narasimhan appeared to have taken a more pragmatic approach. The company began bargaining a framework for a labor contract with union stores this year and had said that it hoped to wrap up the bargaining process with individual stores by the end of the year. In a statement, Workers United said it planned to continue to “work with Starbucks” to “reach fair collective bargaining agreements in the coming months.”
Schultz said in a statement that Niccol is “the leader Starbucks needs at a pivotal moment in its history.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Investments; Activists; Stockholders; Collective bargaining; Coffeehouses; Leadership; Restaurants; Chief executive officers; Contract negotiations; Investors; Shareholder activism; Boards of directors

Business indexing term: Subject: Stockholders Collective bargaining Coffeehouses Leadership Restaurants Chief executive officers Contract negotiations Shareholder activism Boards of directors

Location: New York; United States--US; China

People: Niccol, Brian

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Chipotle Mexican Grill; NAICS: 722513; Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

Identifier / keyword: Customer Loyalty Programs; Restaurants; Linkedin Corporation; Cnbc; International Relations; Yum Brands Inc; Stocks And Bonds; Taco Bell Corp; Collective Bargaining; Starboard Value Lp; Appointments And Executive Changes; Coffeehouses; Coffee; Banking And Financial Institutions; Workers United; United States; Schultz, Howard D; Shareholder Rights And Activism; Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc; Elections; Boards Of Directors; Shopping And Retail; Niccol, Brian; Executives And Management (Theory); Narasimhan, Laxman; Organized Labor; Starbucks Corporation; Entrepreneurship; Labor And Jobs; Mexico; Food Trucks And V endors; Fast Food Industry; Business; Creswell, Julie; China

Title: Starbucks Replaces CEO With Chipotle’s Brian Niccol

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 13, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-13T21:34:15Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3092469422

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/starbucks-replaces-ceo-with-chipotle-s-brian/docview/3092469422/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Adams Names a New Fire Commissioner for New York City: [National Desk]

Author: Meko, Hurubie

Publication info: Meko, Hurubie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/adams-names-new-fire-commissioner-york-city/docview/3092139883/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Tucker will succeed Laura Kavanagh as leader of the Fire Department. A longtime supporter of the department, he has worked for 25 years in law enforcement and private security.
Mayor Eric Adams of New York on Monday named Robert S. Tucker to head the Fire Department, replacing the first female commissioner who faced resistance from top chiefs during her short tenure.
Mr. Tucker will take over leadership of the department from Laura Kavanagh, who stepped down last week after announcing in July that she would resign after less than two years in the role. Joseph Pfeifer, who served as first deputy commissioner under Ms. Kavanagh, briefly served as acting commissioner.
The mayor was joined at a ceremony Monday by Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan and high-ranking department officials at the Fire Academy on Randall's Island, where bagpipes and drums kicked off the celebration.
"As we move forward and see the new challenges that this department is facing, I knew Robert was the one to do it," Mr. Adams said. "He was the person to take this department to the next level."
Mr. Tucker, whose appointment was first reported by The Daily News on Sunday night, will oversee a department of 17,000 employees, including firefighters and emergency medical workers.
Like his predecessor, Mr. Tucker has never been a member of a fire company. He has, however, maintained longtime connections to the Fire Department and to law enforcement circles in the region.
Mr. Tucker is on the board of directors of the FDNY Foundation, a nonprofit that supports the department. He also serves on the board of trustees for the New York City Police Foundation and as a police board commissioner for the Westchester County Police Department. Mr. Tucker was appointed in late 2021 to serve on Mr. Adams's mayoral transition team, working on the Public Safety and Justice Committee.
Mr. Tucker's appointment is "a good thing" for the department, said Daniel A. Nigro, who served as fire commissioner for eight years before retiring in February 2022. Mr. Nigro, reached by phone Saturday in anticipation of Mr. Adams's announcement, said he got to know Mr. Tucker through the FDNY Foundation and that he was a "highly intelligent" person who "knows his way around New York."
"He seems to be a very levelheaded gentleman, and he'll look at everything from all points of view," Mr. Nigro said. "He's already got a head start because he's been at every board meeting we've had, and listened to the commissioner's report at each meeting, and really knows the department inside and out," Mr. Nigro added.
Mr. Tucker grew up in New York City and as a boy in Manhattan chased fire engines on his bicycle. He described himself as a young "fire buff" in a profile on the FDNY Foundation's website.
As a teenager, Mr. Tucker worked in the department's Manhattan Communications Office, where he spent time "mapping out all the multiple-alarm fires," he told the foundation. His work proved that "multiple-alarm fire activity was taking place in clumps of neighborhoods," he added.
"No one else was doing that kind of analysis," he said.
At the ceremony on Monday, Mr. Tucker described his appointment as "a dream come true," but in a nod to criticism the department has faced over its lack of diversity, Mr. Tucker acknowledged a need to make firehouses more welcoming.
"I know my role here," he said. "You're out doing a hard job. I'm here to make it easier and safer."
According to demographics published by the City Council in 2022, less than 2 percent of the Fire Department is female, and only 7 percent is Black, while Latinos make up 13 percent of the department.
Regina Wilson, president of the Vulcan Society, a fraternal organization of Black firefighters, said she doesn't personally know Mr. Tucker, but is hoping that his appointment by the mayor is "the best decision being made."
"Our faith rests with this mayor," she said.
Ms. Wilson said that Ms. Kavanagh, who had received support from the Vulcan Society, had not been the right fit for the top job.
During Ms. Kavanagh's tenure, the needle on addressing the longtime issues that have plagued the Fire Department -- sexism and racism -- was "not moved as much as we needed to," she said.
"It's 2024," Ms. Wilson said. "It needs to stop."
Ms. Kavanagh, who worked in several different capacities in the department after joining in 2014, served as Mr. Nigro's first deputy before being named interim commissioner following his retirement. But shortly after her official appointment in October 2022, Ms. Kavanagh's tenure became tumultuous.
Four of her top chiefs filed a lawsuit last year against her and the department, saying that three had been unfairly demoted. The demotions created a "grave risk," the chiefs said in the lawsuit, by leaving the city with no staff chiefs to properly oversee five-alarm fires and with only a handful of officials with four-alarm fire-command experience.
In another suit filed last year, a group of former chiefs sued Ms. Kavanagh for what they said was age discrimination.
Ms. Kavanagh dealt with criticism from top department officials over her lack of firefighting experience, even though she was not the first non-firefighter to lead the department.
Mr. Tucker also lacks background as a firefighter, despite his deep involvement with the agency.
But his appointment was greeted with swift approval from the Uniformed Firefighters Association, the firefighters' union.
"It is great to see that the new commissioner has long and deep ties with the F.D.N.Y. and a great appreciation for the rank and file of New York City's bravest," said the union's president, Andrew Ansbro. "His experience makes him uniquely qualified to understand the changes that could be made to improve efficiency in the department."
Mr. Tucker received a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from George Washington University in Washington, D.C., according to his LinkedIn profile. He then attended Pace University's law school, graduating in 1996.
He began his legal career as a special assistant in the Queens County district attorney's office under Richard A. Brown, before leaving in 1999 to become the chairman and chief executive of T & M USA, a private global security firm.
A decade ago, Mr. Tucker was named honorary fire commissioner by Salvatore J. Cassano, who served as fire commissioner from 2010 to 2014. Mr. Cassano on Sunday said that he had given Mr. Tucker the title because he had "done so much to help us" as a member of the foundation's board.
"He knows a lot of the operational end because he's been very diligent in doing his job as a member of the executive board," Mr. Cassano said.
Mr. Nigro, who rose through the ranks of the Fire Department during a five-decade career, said that Mr. Tucker's lack of experience as a firefighter would not hinder his ability to lead. "For every commissioner that came through the department like I did, there's been two that didn't," he said.
Shayla Colon contributed reporting.
Shayla Colon contributed reporting.
Photograph Robert S. Tucker called his selection as New York City's fire commissioner "a dream come true" at a news conference at the Fire Academy on Randall's Island on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID DEE DELGADO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mr. Tucker is on the board of the FDNY Foundation, a nonprofit that supports the department. This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Firefighters; Fires; Tenure; Fire departments; Appointments & personnel changes; Mayors; Law enforcement

Business indexing term: Subject: Appointments & personnel changes

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

People: Tucker, Robert S; Adams, Eric

Company / organization: Name: Fire Department-New York City NY; NAICS: 922160

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/11/nyregion/eric-adams-robert-tucker-fire-commissioner.html

Title: Adams Names a New Fire Commissioner for New York City:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 13, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3092139883

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/adams-names-new-fire-commissioner-york-city/docview/3092139883/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Susan Wojcicki, 56, Former Google Marketing Manager and YouTube Leader: [Biography]

Author: Yoon, John; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Yoon, John; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/susan-wojcicki-56-former-google-marketing-manager/docview/3091227928/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The business executive helped turn Google into an internet juggernaut and became one of the most prominent women in Silicon Valley.
Susan Wojcicki, who helped turn Google from a start-up in her garage into an internet juggernaut, and who became one of Silicon Valley's most prominent female executives with her leadership of YouTube, died on Friday. She was 56.
Her death was confirmed by her husband, Dennis Troper, who wrote on Facebook that she had been living with lung cancer for two years. He did not say where she died.
Ms. Wojcicki's more than two decades with Google began in 1998 in her house in Menlo Park, Calif., part of which she rented to her friends Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the company's founders. For $ 1,700 a month, the two used the garage as their office to build the search engine.
Ms. Wojcicki, who had been working at Intel, soon joined Google as one of its earliest employees and was its first marketing manager. Over the years, she reached its executive ranks, becoming Google's most senior woman employee. She eventually led YouTube, which Google acquired in 2006, and which became one of the world's largest social media companies.
"She is as core to the history of Google as anyone, and it's hard to imagine the world without her," Sundar Pichai, Google's chief executive, said in a statement.
When she became YouTube's chief executive in 2014, Ms. Wojcicki was hailed as the most powerful woman in advertising. She had made Google enormously profitable, and she was expected to repeat the trick at YouTube. She led Google's ad business and played a key role in its acquisition of DoubleClick, an advertising technology company, in 2007.
At YouTube, she introduced new forms of advertising and subscription offerings for music, original content and YouTube TV. During her tenure, YouTube became the internet's most popular video service, and her role shifted to control of hate speech, inappropriate content, extremism and misinformation.
In an interview with The New York Times in 2019, Ms. Wojcicki suggested that her legacy at YouTube would depend on whether it succeeded in content moderation, something the company has struggled with.
"I know we can do better, but we're going to get there. We'll get to a point where we have solved a lot of these issues, and I feel like we've already made significant progress," she said. "I own this problem, and I'm going to fix it."
She stepped down from her role last year, writing to YouTube employees at the time that she had decided to focus on "my family, health, and personal projects."
But she remained an adviser to Alphabet, Google's parent company. And she was active as a philanthropist, Mr. Pichai wrote in a letter to his staff, supporting, among other causes, research for the disease that took her life. She had built a personal fortune estimated in the hundreds of millions throughout her career.
Susan Diane Wojcicki was born on July 5, 1968, in Santa Clara, Calif. Her father, Stanley, who died last year, was a particle physicist at Stanford University. Her mother, Esther, worked as a journalist and later as a teacher.
Ms. Wojcicki was the eldest of three daughters. Her sister Janet is an epidemiologist and a professor at the University of California, San Francisco, School of Medicine. Her sister Anne was a founder of the genetics testing firm 23andMe and was once married to Mr. Brin.
As a young girl, Ms. Wojcicki said in a video in 2015, she was curious, hard-working and ready to try "all kinds of new things and new extracurriculars." At Henry M. Gunn High School in Palo Alto, she worked on the school newspaper, The Oracle, her mother said in an interview with Fortune in 2012.
Ms. Wojcicki studied history and literature at Harvard University, where she graduated in 1990. She had initially planned to get a Ph.D. in economics and become an academic, but her discovery of technology's potential changed her path, she said in an interview with Fast Company in 2014.
She received a master's degree in economics from the University of California, Santa Cruz, in 1993 and a master's degree in business from the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1998.
That year, she married Mr. Troper, who was a financial consultant at Deloitte in San Francisco while she was working in marketing at Intel in Santa Clara, according to Palo Alto Weekly. In 2003 he would join Google, where he is currently employed, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Ms. Wojcicki was four months pregnant with the couple's first child in 1999 when she joined Google; by then, the company had left her garage for more conventional office space. She campaigned for paid parental leave to become standard not only at Google but at other businesses, promoting the policy in an opinion article for The Wall Street Journal in 2014. She and Mr. Troper had five children.
In February, Ms. Wojcicki's son Marco, 19, a freshman at Berkeley, died, his grandmother Esther Wojcicki announced on social media at the time. The San Francisco Chronicle, citing the Alameda County Sheriff's Office, reported that the cause was ruled a drug overdose.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her other four children; her sisters, Anne and Janet Wojcicki; and her mother.
Hunter Walk, a former product manager at Google who worked closely with Ms. Wojcicki, said he admired her ability to be a "translator" in navigating the many "islands, personalities and different incentives" at Google as it ballooned from a small start-up to a sprawling corporation.
"You had to convince her first, but if she believed in you and your idea, she could help translate it for Larry and Sergey," Mr. Walk said in an email. "That was the most powerful advocacy a product leader could have on their side."
"She was the tip of all our spears, so to speak," he added. "A very kind, very smart and very normal spear."
Photograph Susan Wojcicki in 2019. She helped turn Google from a start-up into an internet juggernaut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PRATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A22.

Subject: Drug overdose; Marketing; Internet; Managers; Startups; Employees; Social networks; Executives; Leadership; Advertising; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Startups Employees Social networks Executives Leadership Advertising

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; California; Palo Alto California; San Francisco California

People: Wojcicki, Susan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/10/business/susan-wojcicki-dead.html

Title: Susan Wojcicki, 56, Former Google Marketing Manager and YouTube Leader:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 11, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 3091227928

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/susan-wojcicki-56-former-google-marketing-manager/docview/3091227928/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As One Container Tumbles, Another Fills the Void: [Style Desk]

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-one-container-tumbles-another-fills-void/docview/3090098919/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The mighty Stanley's reign appears to be ending, with Owala, Lululemon and Hydro Flask all competing for affection -- and cachet -- among teens and tweens.
With August having arrived and summer slipping away, teens and tweens are already in the process of gearing up for the new academic year. For many, a vital question looms before they get back to books and backpacks: What will be the "it" water bottle this school year?
Parents, footing the bill for back-to-school shopping, will likely get caught up in this important, future-shaping decision as well, whether they want to be or not.
Last year, you may remember that the Stanley 40-ounce tumbler was all the rage. The oversized cup, which had already been popular among adult women, became a trendy fashion accessory and collectible from high schools all the way down to elementary schools. Stanley sold an estimated 10 million "Quencher" water tumblers in 2023 (at $ 45 a pop, in most cases), and when the company released two special-edition cups for Valentine's Day this year, customers nearly came to blows in Target stores trying to buy them. Some camped outside stores, in the dead of winter, to get their hands on one. In California, two people were arrested after being accused of stealing the collectibles.
But that was ages ago in the life span of status water tumblers. Shortly after the Target collaboration dropped, Casey Lewis, who writes about Generation Z's shopping habits in the newsletter After School, was telling The New York Times that "some millennials or Gen-Z are already embarrassed to carry a Stanley." And a recent collaboration with the lifestyle brand LoveShackFancy may prove to be too little, too late.
The average teenager is more attuned to cultural capital than Pierre Bourdieu, the French sociologist who coined the term. Given the light-speed of trends, especially those driven by social media, they know it's probably time to retire their durable Stanley, if not in a landfill than on a bedroom shelf. But where do they go from here?
The Owala FreeSip, which typically costs between $ 28 and $ 38, was already hanging in the shadows of Stanley's fame, waiting to steal the spotlight. It comes in smaller sizes, making it more portable than the cumbersome Stanley, and in fun colors like citrus crush and neo sage. Its packaging declares, as in a daily affirmation, "I'm leakproof. I'm insulated. And I have a built-in straw."
Most important, perhaps, is the exclusivity factor among the company's offerings: the Owala blue bow special edition -- or "Bowala" if you speak Gen Z -- sold out at Urban Outfitters. Last month, a poster on Reddit asked, "How do you get this blue bowed Owala water bottle?" Though its original retail price was no different from a standard FreeSip, a seller on Poshmark is currently asking $ 250 for a Bowala and listings on eBay range upward of $ 150. Clear signs of an emergent status symbol.
Another popular option is the Lululemon 18-ounce Back to Life Sport Bottle ( $ 42) -- but only in a certain color. Not pow pink, sonic pink or lip gloss but rather pink glow, which the Lululemon website helpfully features under its back to school tab as a "trending colour," along with peach bellini.
On the cutting edge of the tumbler trend are stainless steel water bottle kits from Cirkul, some of which have more than a passing resemblance to a baby bottle and are packaged with flavor packets for people who would prefer their water be less like water.
And then, of course, there is the Hydro Flask tumbler, which arguably kicked off the trend of water bottles becoming a must-have accessory almost a decade ago. Hydro Flasks appeared in middle and high schools across the land and were the favored eco-conscious flex of the tech crowd and VSCO Girls, then went the way of the Yeti -- the water bottle, not the mythical apelike creature -- dying out and being replaced on holiday wish lists by the Stanley.
But don't discount the appeal of retro cool -- look at all the Gen Zers wearing Nirvana T-shirts.
In an essay published last month on LinkedIn, Zaria Parvez, senior global media manager at Duolingo, waxed nostalgic about the first status tumbler she owned.
"I distinctly remember purchasing my first bright green Hydroflask in 2016 and never letting go of it," Ms. Parvez wrote. "I made sure that bottle was on my school desk, in my backpack pocket -- I wanted people to see I had it."
Sometimes what's old is new again. Even when it comes to water bottles.
Photograph In marketing materials for the Owala FreeSip, above left, the company emphasizes its claim that its products are leakproof. Left, Stanley's Quencher dominated shelves in 2023 and early 2024. But the classic look may be giving way to new trends. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIA MAXWELL/THE LOS ANGELES TIMES, VIA GETTY IMAGES; JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Water; Collaboration; Schools; Trends

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/01/style/back-to-school-owala-stanley-cup.html

Title: As One Container Tumbles, Another Fills the Void:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 8, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3090098919

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-one-container-tumbles-another-fills-void/docview/3090098919/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Some Major Wall Street Donors Are Putting Harris on Spot Over Chief of F.T.C.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren; Kessler, Sarah

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren; Kessler, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-major-wall-street-donors-are-putting-harris/docview/3087876200/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Two billionaire Democratic donors have publicly pressured Vice President Kamala Harris to replace the F.T.C. chair, Lina Khan. Wall Street insiders are worried that could backfire.
Wall Street Democrats have spent the last eight years complaining about their relationship with Washington. They found former President Donald Trump's presidency unpredictable, and then became estranged from the Democratic Party as President Biden hired the most aggressive antitrust regulators in recent memory. But now that Vice President Kamala Harris is the party's presumptive presidential nominee, they see a chance to regain influence.
Some have returned to a long tradition of writing checks, scheduling fund-raising dinners and orchestrating subtle campaigns. But others, embracing the public lobbying welcomed by Trump and employed by outspoken C.E.O.s like Elon Musk and Bill Ackman, are openly calling for Harris to oust Lina Khan, the chair of the Federal Trade Commission: "I think she's a dope," Barry Diller, the chairman of IAC, told CNBC. (He later apologized for calling her a dope, but not for critiquing her policies.)
Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, spoke to CNN twice about his Khan concerns. "Antitrust is fine," Hoffman said. "Waging war is not." (He later clarified that he would support Harris regardless of whether she replaced Khan.)
Few on Wall Street would disagree with that stance -- Khan has moved to block deals with seemingly little concern over losing in court. But behind the scenes, many are irked by this kind of public lobbying, arguing that it exposes a misunderstanding of the way the Washington game is played, and that it could backfire.
Their concerns are echoed by strategists: "I'm not really sure if it's very effective," Stuart Stevens, a political consultant who previously worked for Mitt Romney, told DealBook. "I've always felt once you make these things public, it makes it harder for politicians to do."
Critics immediately called the public lobbying self-interested. The F.T.C. has reportedly opened multiple investigations that involve subsidiaries of Diller's IAC, according to CNN, and Hoffman has a seat on the board of Microsoft, whose investment in OpenAI is also under scrutiny from the F.T.C.
"We didn't see this in recent elections, because the Democratic Party was Wall Street-friendly on issues like antitrust and trade," said Michael Sandel, a professor at Harvard and the author of "Democracy's Discontent," speaking about the public lobbying around Khan. "The Biden administration broke with these policies, which is why the donors are complaining."
Khan's detractors on Wall Street argue that their frustration is warranted. Deal activity has dropped precipitously under the Biden administration as regulators have demonstrated an eagerness to test the law by taking proposed mergers to trial.
But expressing the desire to oust Khan so publicly, some Wall Street insiders say, makes it nearly impossible for Harris to do so without it seeming as if she's kowtowing to donor interests. It also reinforces Khan's stature as a celebrity in her own right.
Donor concern extends beyond Khan's vocation. Not since Teddy Roosevelt has antitrust enforcement been a cornerstone election issue, and it is not clear it will be in 2024, either. But a clumsy approach could complicate Wall Street's nascent relationship with a potential Harris administration, particularly if she views it as one that threatens her election chances.
Harris needs to win votes in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, where the administration's antitrust policies and Trump-era tariffs remain popular.
"It seems to me that the last thing Kamala Harris needs is to take direction from plutocrat donors and cryptocurrency fans," Chris Whipple, author of "The Fight of His Life: Inside Joe Biden's White House," told DealBook. "She should be listening instead to working-class voters in battleground states."
The pressure campaign comes as Trump redeploys a winning tactic from 2016 by courting the populist vote. He invited Sean O'Brien, the president of the Teamsters union, to speak at the Republican National Convention. His pick for vice president, JD Vance, has applauded Khan's take on big business.
Executives are increasingly becoming their own lobbyists. Companies typically try to influence antitrust policy behind closed doors. Google executives frequented the Obama White House during its antitrust investigation of the internet giant. Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google fortified their Washington presence during Trump's presidency, spending millions on congressional calls, advertising and think-tank funding.
But Trump's more blatantly transactional tenure was followed by a rise in public pleading, as Ackman, Musk and Silicon Valley billionaires have used social media to proclaim their political views on everything from the war in Ukraine to tax policy.
It's "a continuation of social media where you have a forum that no thought can go unexpressed," said Stevens. "This is what we used to pay lobbyists to do."
Washington insiders prefer the art of subtle pressure. DealBook asked donors, lobbyists and insiders how they would pressure the vice president to replace Khan. Their hypothetical strategies involved highlighting economic studies that question Khan's policies; enlisting support from organizations of smaller companies; and containing the ire that replacing Khan would provoke from progressive politicians like Senator Elizabeth Warren.
The latter is easier said than done, adding to the significant political and logistical challenges in replacing Khan.
Those surveyed said a more easily achieved goal might be pushing for appointments in roles that could curb the administration's antitrust priorities, like the director of the national economic council.
As for the potential political problem created by donors, a longtime Washington policy strategist, who asked not to be named because he was not authorized by his employer to speak publicly, had a recommendation.
"It's a huge problem for Harris," he told DealBook of public calls for Khan's removal. He offered his thoughts on how the vice president should handle them: Reject executives publicly, and then tell donors privately, "Sorry, I had to do that." -- Lauren Hirsch
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
A lackluster jobs report sank stocks, and put pressure on the Fed. Employers added 114,000 jobs in July, well below economists' forecasts. That, and a revision showing 29,000 fewer hires in May and June, led to more calls for the central bank to lower interest rates at the next policy meeting in September as concerns grow that the U.S. economy is slowing.
Journalist Evan Gershkovich and two other Americans were freed from Russia in an elaborate prisoner swap. Gershkovich, the Wall Street Journal reporter, plus the former Marine Paul Whelan and the radio journalist Alsu Kurmasheva, landed in the U.S. late on Thursday, following a six-nation deal that President Biden called a triumph of international diplomacy. Republican congressional leaders warned though that "the costs of hostage diplomacy will continue to rise" and that the swap would do nothing to dissuade Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, from wrongfully detaining political prisoners.
Kamala Harris won the votes needed to secure the Democratic Party's nomination, setting Harris up to become the first Black woman and person of South Asian heritage to run for president on a major political ticket. Speculation that she will pick Gov. Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania as her running mate gained steam as he canceled a fund-raising trip, though some pro-Palestinian activists oppose his selection.
Katie Ledecky became the most decorated U.S. female Olympian. She reached the milestone after winning her 13th Olympic medal, in the 4x200 freestyle relay. In other Olympic highlights: Simone Biles and the U.S. women's team each won gold in the Olympics gymnastics all-around competitions; the U.S. men's gymnastics team won its first medal in 16 years; and the U.S. won its first women's rugby medal.
Big Tech's big spending
For nearly two years, Wall Street hasn't blinked when tech C.E.O.s pledged to invest whatever it takes to realize the potential of artificial intelligence. And this week many of the industry's titans confirmed double-digit percentage increases in capital expenditures, the bulk tied to A.I. spending, over the same time last year.
Shares in Alphabet, Microsoft and Amazon all fell after they reported earnings, despite delivering good news about their bottom lines. Only Meta, which both exceeded expectations and made the case for A.I. helping its core business, and Apple, which hasn't defined the technology as existential to its future, avoided earnings-related stock slumps.
Ticket resellers are sitting out this Olympics
When Andrew covered the 2000 Olympic Games, scalping tickets was as competitive as some of the athletic events, with an army of resellers descending on Sydney from all around the world to hustle tickets. The marketplace for the Paris Games couldn't look more different.
QR codes, distributed via an official Olympics app, have replaced paper tickets. If you want to sell a ticket, your only option is in the app, for face value. Trying your luck with an unsanctioned sales channel could be viewed as a crime, the Olympics website warns. The threat seems to be working: The biggest online ticket resellers, including StubHub, Ticketmaster and SeatGeek, have no inventory.
By adopting such a restrictive stance, the Olympics may be circumventing problems that have plagued the events industry, like deceptive pricing (the District of Columbia's attorney general sued StubHub this week over what he calls junk fees); scalpers using bots to monopolize the supply of hot tickets; and speculative resellers who buy tickets only after they've sold them at a higher price.
But you're not likely to see the Paris approach at the next Summer Games in Los Angeles, or trending at venues across the U.S. any time soon. Here's why.
The U.S. is generally more open to resellers. A handful of states, including Connecticut, Illinois, Virginia, New Jersey and Colorado, make it unlawful to limit or restrict a consumer's right to resell tickets, says Laura Nemeth, a partner at the law firm Squire Patton Boggs who represents clients in the event ticketing industries. That said, there is no U.S. federal law that spells out consumers' rights to resell tickets or that prohibits event organizers from restricting them.
In Europe, consumers are generally more skeptical about ticket reselling and regulations that govern it are more restrictive.
Some U.S. professional sports rely on the resale market. "Going to all 81 home baseball games is a challenge, even for the most dedicated fans," says Russ D'Souza, a co-founder of the ticketing platform SeatGeek. The option to resell tickets makes season tickets more valuable.
Rights holders often pocket from the practice. When events name official reselling partners, they typically get a cut of the sales fee a platform charges. As such, the platform is often integrated into the event's ticketing system, or gets other preferential positioning.
The Eras Tour has put the spotlight on ticketing. Sky-high prices at Taylor Swift concerts are commonly cited to show how predatory resellers can box out all but those willing to pay well above face value for entry. Some popular U.S. artists, like Billie Eilish, have requested that all tickets be restricted from transfer to "give fans, not scalpers, the best chance to buy tickets at face value."
Paris is facing a different problem. Some of the buzzier events -- including the men's and women's 100-meter finals this weekend -- had a stockpile of tickets available as of Thursday.
Could dynamic pricing on an open resale market have put more fans in the Stade de France?
"What's so powerful about the secondary market is that it's a true marketplace," D'Souza says. "And the price will reflect supply and demand."
Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.
Thanks for reading! We'll see you Monday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.
Photograph Lina Khan, the chair of the Federal Trade Commission, has come under fire for her aggressive antitrust actions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Fund raising; Antitrust; Olympic games; Political activism; Diplomacy; Social networks; Political parties; Political campaigns; Capital expenditures; Lobbyists; Lobbying; Political advertising; Political finance; Campaign contributions

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Social networks Capital expenditures

Location: Russia; United States--US; Pennsylvania

People: Harris, Kamala; Khan, Lina M; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: CNN; NAICS: 516210; Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: StubHub Inc; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/03/business/dealbook/saying-the-quiet-part-out-loud.html

Title: Some Major Wall Street Donors Are Putting Harris on Spot Over Chief of F.T.C.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 5, 2024

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3087876200

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-major-wall-street-donors-are-putting-harris/docview/3087876200/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Advisory Role of Harris's Brother-in-Law, a Corporate Executive, Dismays Some: [National Desk]

Author: Kelly, Kate; Scheiber, Noam; Vogel, Kenneth P

Publication info: Kelly, Kate; Scheiber, Noam; Vogel, Kenneth P. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/advisory-role-harriss-brother-law-corporate/docview/3087876173/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tony West, the top lawyer for Uber, is weighing in on polling and running mates. His presence has made some liberals anxious.
Vice President Kamala Harris had a secret weapon on hand as she worked the phones in the hours after President Biden dropped his re-election bid and endorsed her.
Tony West, her brother-in-law and the chief legal officer at Uber, was with Ms. Harris in the vice president's residence when she received the news, and he spent the afternoon helping her reach out to would-be supporters. At various points he peeled away to a nearby anteroom to call his own network of donors and business contacts, after which the two relatives compared notes, someone familiar with the matter said.
Since that Sunday, Mr. West has emerged as a major force behind Ms. Harris's campaign and its record-setting fund-raising, but also as a concern for some progressives who want her to take a hard line against big business. He is expected to remain involved in the final 92 days of the race, with Uber announcing on Friday that Mr. West would soon take an unpaid leave of absence to focus on the White House run.
Ms. Harris's campaign brought on several senior political operatives on Friday, some of whom worked on former President Barack Obama's campaigns, to add to the team that had been assembled to re-elect Mr. Biden. But none has the advantage of family ties like her brother-in-law, who has held top positions in the Justice Department and corporate America while advising Ms. Harris's campaigns since she ran for San Francisco district attorney in 2003.
And Mr. West, who is serving as an unpaid adviser, has already made a mark on her campaign.
He recommended bringing on Eric H. Holder Jr., the former attorney general, to handle the vetting process for Ms. Harris's running mate, said the person familiar with the matter, who requested anonymity to discuss internal dynamics. Mr. West has also helped shape Ms. Harris's campaign team by supporting the elevation of her longtime pollster, this person added. And he has served as a critical point of contact for business leaders and major donors, according to several people with knowledge of his role.
He did all of this during a pivotal period for his work at Uber, the publicly traded ride-sharing company. On July 25, shortly after Ms. Harris addressed the influential American Federation of Teachers union in Houston, the California Supreme Court issued a ruling that ensured that Uber would not see its labor costs rise by hundreds of millions of dollars. The ruling provoked outrage among some of the unions whose help Ms. Harris may need to win in November.
Mr. West's influential position in Ms. Harris's operation has prompted comparisons to Robert F. Kennedy, who was a close adviser to his brother John F. Kennedy's campaigns, and became his attorney general. Some Harris allies have carried the analogy further, suggesting that Mr. West could take a senior administration position, though an anti-nepotism law could complicate that, and Mr. West has told colleagues that he intends to return to Uber after the election.
Regardless, Mr. West's proximity to his sister-in-law is viewed with suspicion by influential voices on the left, who believe the key to defeating former President Donald J. Trump is a full-throated embrace of liberal populism. Some progressives, upset that Ms. Harris in recent days has dialed back liberal stances she took during her 2020 campaign on health care and the environment, are worried that Mr. West could discourage populist positions on business issues including antitrust enforcement, data privacy and labor rights.
"When your brother-in-law is a super-credentialed attorney, I can get why you tap his talents," Jeff Hauser, a former AFL-CIO spokesman who runs the Revolving Door Project, a pro-labor watchdog group, said in an email. "But I would be alarmed if he ever expresses any direct or indirect views on labor or tech policy."
There is no direct evidence that Mr. West has shaped Ms. Harris's positions on any particular policy. In fact, she supported efforts in California to classify gig workers as employees, which would have been a blow to Uber.
Supporters say that Ms. Harris will make her own decisions and keep in mind lessons from past campaigns. Her 2020 presidential campaign was chaired by her sister Maya Harris, who is married to Mr. West, leading to confusion about the line between family and staff.
Mr. West, 58, is a Bay Area native who graduated from Harvard College and Stanford Law School and worked as a Democratic fund-raiser and a federal prosecutor.
During the Obama administration, Mr. West rose to become the third-highest-ranking official in the Justice Department. He helped advance the department's decision to stop defending an anti-gay-marriage law and launched an investigation into the 2014 shooting death in Ferguson, Mo., of an unarmed 18-year-old Black man, Michael Brown, by a white police officer. He led the department's push for large financial settlements with big banks in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
Mr. West's handling of the settlements in some ways epitomized his moderate approach. While he extracted payments that, as he put it, were more than merely the "cost of doing business," critics complained that the banks often paid less than the multibillion-dollar figures that made headlines, and that the department declined to prosecute prominent executives.
After leaving the Justice Department in 2014, Mr. West landed at PepsiCo, where he ran the company's legal operations and its public-policy efforts. He once crisscrossed the Persian Gulf to discuss a potential sugar tax in Saudi Arabia and other countries, which risked denting PepsiCo's revenue, according to former colleagues.
Indra Nooyi, PepsiCo's chief executive at the time, praised Mr. West's "sensible head," adding that, "because he came from government, he was very knowledgeable about the lay of the land, who could we call on to help on what issue."
In late 2017, Mr. West accepted the job at Uber, where his mandate was to clean up high-profile lawsuits, data management issues and alleged sexual misconduct by some drivers as the company prepared to go public.
Mr. West "had this view of considering risk from a pre-emptive perspective -- try to fix things before they reach a crisis point," said Matt Wing, a former Uber colleague.
In the spring of 2019, California's lower house passed a bill that posed a major threat to Uber by effectively making drivers and other gig workers eligible for all the benefits and protections of employment, including a minimum wage and overtime pay. The bill could have raised Uber's labor costs in the state by 20 to 30 percent.
Mr. West, according to a former colleague who requested anonymity to discuss sensitive matters, approached the problem the way he often did: assuming that reasonable people could get in a room and cut a deal. He spoke with union officials, legislators and aides to Gov. Gavin Newsom seeking agreement on a compromise measure, which would give drivers certain benefits like paid time off but stopped short of making them employees.
Mr. West failed to appreciate the intensity of the left's opposition, according to the colleague.
Several unions in the state went to war against the proposal. After the talks broke down and the employment law passed the full Legislature, Uber joined a coalition of gig companies that spent $ 200 million, including a $ 2 million donation to the California Republican Party, pushing a state ballot measure to exempt gig workers. The measure passed, and it was upheld by California's Supreme Court last month.
Uber's victory was a bitter one for many driver advocates, who still see red over Mr. West's role.
"Uber has never shown that it has the workers' backs on this, and Tony West is a policymaker for Uber," said Nicole Moore, the president of Rideshare Drivers United, which represents thousands of gig drivers in California.
Some big donors and corporate executives view Mr. West as a possible check against the influence of progressives pushing Ms. Harris to take stands that might turn off the business community.
"I've had conversations with Tony and people on their team, and I find them very smart, very open to all business ideas," said the billionaire investor Mark Cuban.
Mr. Cuban was among 100 venture capitalists to endorse Ms. Harris on Wednesday. Other tech leaders supporting her campaign include the Netflix co-founder Reed Hastings and the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman. Both are major donors who have been in close touch with Mr. West, according to two people familiar with the interactions. Mr. Hoffman and Mr. West were listed as hosts of a fund-raiser for Ms. Harris's 2020 campaign, according to an invitation.
Still, some say that if Ms. Harris leans too heavily on her brother-in-law, she risks making the same mistake Mr. West made in California and misreading the appetite for compromise on the left.
Matt Stoller, a former Democratic congressional aide who has become a leading critic of big business, said Mr. West embodied a brand of pragmatic politics that catered to powerful interests at the expense of working people, likening the approach to that of the centrist "New Democrats."
"I can't think of a more dangerous approach to politics than to try to repeat what the New Democrats did," he said.
Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.
Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.
Photograph Vice President Kamala Harris and her brother-in-law Tony West, right, at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN SCHAFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mr. West has held top roles in the Justice Department and corporate America while advising Ms. Harris's campaigns since 2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Ride sharing services; Labor law; Attorneys general; Presidential elections; Scandals; Labor unions; Executives; Advisors

Business indexing term: Subject: Ride sharing services Labor law Labor unions Executives

Location: California; United States--US

People: West, Tony

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111; Name: Uber Technologies Inc; NAICS: 492210, 513210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/04/us/politics/kamala-harris-tony-west.html

Title: Advisory Role of Harris's Brother-in-Law, a Corporate Executive, Dismays Some:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 5, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3087876173

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/advisory-role-harriss-b rother-law-corporate/docview/3087876173/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harris’ Brother-in-Law, a Corporate Executive, Emerges as a Close Adviser

Author: Kelly, Kate; Scheiber, Noam; Vogel, Kenneth P

Publication info: Kelly, Kate; Scheiber, Noam; Vogel, Kenneth P. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harris-brother-law-corporate-executive-emerges-as/docview/3087743688/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Vice President Kamala Harris had a secret weapon on hand as she worked the phones in the hours after President Joe Biden dropped his reelection bid and endorsed her.
Tony West, her brother-in-law and the chief legal officer at Uber, was with Harris in the vice president’s residence when she received the news, and he spent the afternoon helping her reach out to would-be supporters. At various points he peeled away to a nearby anteroom to call his own network of donors and business contacts, after which the two relatives compared notes, someone familiar with the matter said.
Since that Sunday, West has emerged as a major force behind Harris’ campaign and its record-setting fundraising, but also as a concern for some progressives who want her to take a hard line against big business. He is expected to remain involved in the final 92 days of the race, with Uber announcing Friday that West would soon take an unpaid leave of absence to focus on the White House run.
Harris’ campaign brought on several senior political operatives Friday, some of whom worked on former President Barack Obama’s campaigns, to add to the team that had been assembled to reelect Biden. But none has the advantage of family ties like her brother-in-law, who has held top positions in the Justice Department and corporate America while advising Harris’ campaigns since she ran for San Francisco district attorney in 2003.
And West, who is serving as an unpaid adviser, has already made a mark on her campaign.
He recommended bringing on Eric H. Holder Jr., the former attorney general, to handle the vetting process for Harris’ running mate, said the person familiar with the matter, who requested anonymity to discuss internal dynamics. West has also helped shape Harris’ campaign team by supporting the elevation of her longtime pollster, this person added. And he has served as a crucial point of contact for business leaders and major donors, according to several people with knowledge of his role.
He did all of this during a pivotal period for his work at Uber, the publicly traded ride-sharing company. On July 25, shortly after Harris addressed the influential American Federation of Teachers union in Houston, the California Supreme Court issued a ruling that ensured that Uber would not see its labor costs rise by hundreds of millions of dollars. The ruling provoked outrage among some of the unions whose help Harris may need to win in November.
West’s influential position in Harris’ operation has prompted comparisons to Robert F. Kennedy, who was a close adviser to his brother John F. Kennedy’s campaigns, and became his attorney general. Some Harris allies have carried the analogy further, suggesting that West could take a senior administration position, though an anti-nepotism law could complicate that, and West has told colleagues that he intends to return to Uber after the election.
Regardless, West’s proximity to his sister-in-law is viewed with suspicion by influential voices on the left, who believe the key to defeating former President Donald Trump is a full-throated embrace of liberal populism. Some progressives, upset that Harris in recent days has dialed back liberal stances she took during her 2020 campaign on health care and the environment, are worried that West could discourage populist positions on business issues including antitrust enforcement, data privacy and labor rights.
“When your brother-in-law is a super-credentialed attorney, I can get why you tap his talents,” Jeff Hauser, a former AFL-CIO spokesperson who runs the Revolving Door Project, a pro-labor watchdog group, said in an email. “But I would be alarmed if he ever expresses any direct or indirect views on labor or tech policy.”
There is no direct evidence that West has shaped Harris’ positions on any particular policy. In fact, she supported efforts in California to classify gig workers as employees, which would have been a blow to Uber.
Supporters say that Harris will make her own decisions and keep in mind lessons from past campaigns. Her 2020 presidential campaign was chaired by her sister Maya Harris, who is married to West, leading to confusion about the line between family and staff.
West, 58, is a Bay Area native who graduated from Harvard College and Stanford Law School and worked as a Democratic fundraiser and a federal prosecutor.
During the Obama administration, West rose to become the third-highest-ranking official in the Justice Department. He helped advance the department’s decision to stop defending an anti-gay-marriage law and launched an investigation into the 2014 shooting death in Ferguson, Missouri, of an unarmed 18-year-old Black man, Michael Brown, by a white police officer. He led the department’s push for large financial settlements with big banks in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
West’s handling of the settlements in some ways epitomized his moderate approach. While he extracted payments that, as he put it, were more than merely the “cost of doing business,” critics complained that the banks often paid less than the multibillion-dollar figures that made headlines, and that the department declined to prosecute prominent executives.
After leaving the Justice Department in 2014, West landed at PepsiCo, where he ran the company’s legal operations and its public-policy efforts. He once crisscrossed the Persian Gulf to discuss a potential sugar tax in Saudi Arabia and other countries, which risked denting PepsiCo’s revenue, according to former colleagues.
Indra Nooyi, PepsiCo’s CEO at the time, praised West’s “sensible head,” adding that, “because he came from government, he was very knowledgeable about the lay of the land, who could we call on to help on what issue.”
In late 2017, West accepted the job at Uber, where his mandate was to clean up high-profile lawsuits, data management issues and alleged sexual misconduct by some drivers as the company prepared to go public.
West “had this view of considering risk from a preemptive perspective — try to fix things before they reach a crisis point,” said Matt Wing, a former Uber colleague.
In the spring of 2019, California’s lower house passed a bill that posed a major threat to Uber by effectively making drivers and other gig workers eligible for all the benefits and protections of employment, including a minimum wage and overtime pay. The bill could have raised Uber’s labor costs in the state by 20% to 30%.
West, according to a former colleague who requested anonymity to discuss sensitive matters, approached the problem the way he often did: assuming that reasonable people could get in a room and cut a deal. He spoke with union officials, legislators and aides to California Gov. Gavin Newsom seeking agreement on a compromise measure, which would give drivers certain benefits such as paid time off but stopped short of making them employees.
West failed to appreciate the intensity of the left’s opposition, according to the colleague.
Several unions in the state went to war against the proposal. After the talks broke down and the employment law passed the full Legislature, Uber joined a coalition of gig companies that spent $200 million, including a $2 million donation to the California Republican Party, pushing a state ballot measure to exempt gig workers. The measure passed, and it was upheld by California’s Supreme Court last month.
Uber’s victory was a bitter one for many driver advocates, who still see red over West’s role.
“Uber has never shown that it has the workers’ backs on this, and Tony West is a policymaker for Uber,” said Nicole Moore, the president of Rideshare Drivers United, which represents thousands of gig drivers in California.
Some big donors and corporate executives view West as a possible check against the influence of progressives pushing Harris to take stands that might turn off the business community.
“I’ve had conversations with Tony and people on their team, and I find them very smart, very open to all business ideas,” said billionaire investor Mark Cuban.
Cuban was among 100 venture capitalists to endorse Harris on Wednesday. Other tech leaders supporting her campaign include Netflix co-founder Reed Hastings and LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman. Both are major donors who have been in close touch with West, according to two people familiar with the interactions. Hoffman and West were listed as hosts of a fundraiser for Harris’ 2020 campaign, according to an invitation.
Still, some say that if Harris leans too heavily on her brother-in-law, she risks making the same mistake West made in California and misreading the appetite for compromise on the left.
Matt Stoller, a former Democratic congressional aide who has become a leading critic of big business, said West embodied a brand of pragmatic politics that catered to powerful interests at the expense of working people, likening the approach to that of the centrist “New Democrats.”
“I can’t think of a more dangerous approach to politics than to try to repeat what the New Democrats did,” he said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Ride sharing services; Political campaigns; Labor law; Attorneys general; Presidential elections; Scandals; Labor unions; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Ride sharing services Labor law Labor unions Executives

Location: California; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

Identifier / keyword: Presidential Election Of 2024; Attorneys General; Employee Fringe Benefits; Minimum Wage; Elections, Attorneys General; Houston (Tex); Netflix Inc; Obama, Barack; Harvard University; Banking And Financial Institutions; Privacy; Assaults; Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Endorsements; United States; Hastings, Reed; Sugar; Linkedin Corporation; Cuban, Mark; Holder, Eric H Jr; Justice Department; Corporations; Elections; Presidential Election Of 2020; Pepsico Inc; Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Referendums; Politics And Government; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Ferguson (Mo); Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Suits And Litigation (Civil); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); American Federation Of Labor Congress Of Industrial Organizations; Records And Achievements; Arms Trade; Persian Gulf; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Missouri; Uber Technologies Inc; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Brown, Michael (1996 2014); United States Politics And Government; Black Lives Matter Movement; Wages And Salaries; Executives And Management (Theory); Organized Labor; American Federation Of Teachers; Car Services And Livery Cabs; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Black People; Cuba; Rideshare Drivers United; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Education (K 12); Newsom, Gavin; San Francisco (Calif); Executive Compensation; Nepotism; Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Nooyi, Indra K; Saudi Arabia; Kennedy, Robert Francis; Trump, Donald J; West, Tony (1965 ); Elections, District Attorneys; Supreme Court (Us); Harris, Kamala D; Paid Time Off; Revolving Door Project (Center For Economic And Policy Research); Kennedy, John Fitzgerald; Campaign Finance; Vogel, Kenneth P; Sexual Harassment; Beverages; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Harris’ Brother-in-Law, a Corporate Executive, Emerges as a Close Adviser

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 4, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-04T20:12:12Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3087743688

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harris-brother-law-corporate-executive-emerges-as/docview/3087743688/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Exasperated by Human Resources? Get in Line.: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Segal, David

Publication info: Segal, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/exasperated-human-resources-get-line/docview/3087632443/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Get in line behind the H.R. managers themselves, who say that since the pandemic, the job has become an exasperating ordeal. "People hate us," one said.
Show of hands: Who's fed up with human resources?
Maybe you're irked by the endless flow of memos and forms, many of which need to be filled out, pronto. Maybe you're irritated by new initiatives that regularly emerge from H.R., which never seems to run out of new initiatives, not all of them necessary or especially wise, in your opinion. Or you've got some problem with management and you don't trust that H.R. representatives will actually help. They sure are friendly, but they get paid by the suits. In a crunch, it's pretty clear whose side they are on.
The H.R. department bugs a lot of employees and managers, and it seems to have more detractors than ever since the pandemic began. That's when H.R. began to administer rules about remote work and pay transparency, programs to improve diversity, equity and inclusion and everything else that has rattled and changed the workplace in the last four years.
But if the H.R. department is bothering you, here's a fact you might find perversely consoling: You are not as aggravated or bummed out as the people who work in H.R.
That was obvious at Unleash, an annual three-day conference and expo held this year at Caesars Forum, an immense convention hall near the Las Vegas Strip. In May, the event brought together some 4,000 H.R. professionals from across the country. It was billed as a place where "global H.R. leaders come to do business and discover inspirational stories."
It was more like a place where the H.R. department came to complain.
"Everything feels like a fool's errand," said Kyle Lagunas, a former H.R. executive at General Motors who now works at Aptitude Research, an H.R. advisory company based in Boston. He had just finished a highly animated presentation about H.R. tech in front of an audience of about 50 people. Now he sat in the designated media room and ranted a bit about the maddening challenges of running H.R. during and after the tumult of the pandemic.
"For years, we have been fighting fires with cans of gasoline," he said. "And now, here we are, after literally giving everything we could, and it's like: 'Oh, thanks for everything, but"' -- and here's the G-rated version, get lost -- "'Don't make too much work for me. I'm not going to dot those I's and cross those T's. I'm the business, and you're H.R."'
Part of the frustration is that office behavior post-Covid has become notably less civil, which means that H.R. is being called in far more often to referee disputes. Everyone at Unleash had a story about explaining basic etiquette to boorish colleagues. No, you can't microwave fish at lunch. Stop cutting your toenails on your desk.
Don't bring a gun to the office.
"That happened at the company where I used to work," said Vanessa Castillo, a longtime H.R. executive based in Florida, who was speaking over the din of a speakeasy-themed bar in the Cosmopolitan, a hotel. She said a woman "who was processing a breakup with someone at the office," brought the weapon. Ms. Castillo sent the employee home, then called the police, concerned that she might return in a lethal rage. The employee was laid off and cops were stationed in the parking lot for a week.
H.R. knows that employees and managers are annoyed by its memos, by its processes, by just about anything that interrupts life as it was. When an email is sent nudging everyone to take that 45-minute online course in, say, data security, H.R. can almost hear the eye rolls.
That said, don't expect apologies. The consensus at Unleash was that most of these new ideas are designed with the goal of a more equitable workplace; like greater diversity, for instance, or standardized workplace reviews.
So get used to the memos.
Also, while you're whining, get used to human capital management software programs. A recent Business Insider story, titled "Everyone Hates Workday," asked why half of the Fortune 500 uses this particular piece of software -- which handles benefits and recruiting and facilitates pay equity analysis -- despite creating "mountains of busywork for everyone."
It's not the software's fault, H.R. veterans say. It's the fault of your company, which hasn't configured it wisely or trained you adequately. Workday is here to stay, and one Unleash attendee had this bit of advice for its legions of haters: "Buckle up, buttercup."
Mostly, though, the tone at Unleash was deflated and worn down. Attendees commiserated and bonded at lectures, lunches and after-hours cocktail parties. They grabbed branded freebies like stuffed ferrets from a social media screening company called Ferretly. They ate chocolate-dipped waffles, billed as vegetarian. They watched a "Shark Tank"-like competition between five H.R.-related tech start-ups, all vying for an oversized $ 50,000 check.
In quieter settings, attendees lamented the low pay, the churn and the increasing workload. One discussed a work-induced mental breakdown. There was a lot of fretting about artificial intelligence, which seems poised to take jobs on the recruitment side of their business. (A number of vendors at the expo were selling software designed for that very purpose.)
Many H.R. executives have left the field in recent years, or they are looking for better offers. In 2022, LinkedIn found that H.R. had the highest turnover rate of any job it tracked.
"Everybody hates us," said Hebba Youssef, the chief people officer at Workweek who has a podcast and a newsletter for H.R. professionals called "I Hate it Here." Recent posts have included "Why Does Working in H.R. Feel So Lonely?" and "Everybody Hates Their Jobs Right?"
Ms. Youssef especially bemoaned the mistrust employees feel toward H.R. It's dispiriting, she said, because most people go into the field to be helpful.
"People in H.R. tend to be very compassionate, very empathetic," she said. "But a lot of employees look at us as inherently evil."
Let's 'Humanize' the Company
The H.R. department was born more than a century ago, and it had an unlikely father. John Henry Patterson was the founder of the National Cash Register Company of Dayton, Ohio, which pioneered mass production of a newfangled money tabulating machine. Mr. Patterson had a Monopoly Man mustache and a ruthless streak. He was so fond of predatory pricing that in 1912, he was convicted of violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act and sentenced to a year in prison. (His conviction was overturned on appeal.)
He took a warmer approach to his 5,400 employees. Eventually. After customers in England returned $ 50,000 worth of faulty machines to the Dayton factory, he had a revelation. Mr. Patterson concluded that his workers didn't care about the quality of the company's products because they assumed that he didn't care about them.
He changed tactics overnight, according to his 1922 obituary in The New York Times. He moved his desk to the factory floor and took other measures to "humanize" the company, as The Times put it. National Cash Register offered benefits like day care and lunchtime entertainment at the company cafeteria.
"It was initially known as 'welfare work' because it was employers demonstrating an interest in the welfare of workers," said Gary Hoover, executive director of the American Business History Center in Tyler, Texas. After World War II, when the model of lifetime employment became the norm, the job was to ensure that workers stuck around.
"That starts to fade in the 1980-1981 recession," said Peter Cappelli, a professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. "Companies were facing an existential threat from Japan, which was building better cars, better steel. Executives started laying off people and, in downsizing mode, you don't care too much about keeping employees happy."
By then, "personnel department" had been rebranded as "human resources."
"The idea was to stop thinking of employees as people that needed to be taken care of," said Professor Cappelli. "People became resources, assets like any other, like machinery. The priority wasn't to help people. It was to help the business."
The question of the H.R. department's priorities and purpose has festered ever since. When the #MeToo reckoning began, many wondered why H.R. hadn't forestalled many of the worst misdeeds with timely, forceful interventions. Critics contend that the department's first mission has long been the quiet and smooth operation of a company, and before the epidemic of sexual harassment became a national scandal, that often meant quashing conflicts.
More recently, H.R. has been in charge of dealing with the fallout of epochal events. When offices closed down because of Covid, H.R. administered remote work rules, which kept evolving as back-to-work dates were repeatedly pushed into the future. Tens of millions of U.S. workers quit their jobs starting in 2021 in what became known as the Great Resignation. H.R. found replacements. When diversity, equity and inclusion programs were mandated by upper management in the wake of the murder of George Floyd, which brought renewed efforts to address racial disparities, H.R. had yet another mission.
Some of these missions have since changed, yet again. Tiffany Lee worked in the recruitment department of Zoom, the teleconferencing company, which she joined in October 2020, as remote work was taking off and the software soared in popularity. Zoom was one of many companies that launched a D.E.I. initiative after the summer of racial justice protests, and Ms. Lee was part of the team in H.R. that pitched it to potential hires.
But by late last year, a D.E.I. backlash was in full swing. Zoom and other companies -- Meta and Alphabet included -- scaled back their programs. For Zoom, that meant dismantling much of its internal team. Ms. Lee and others were laid off.
"There just wasn't any value put on the work that I was doing," she said.
(A spokeswoman for Zoom said in a statement that the company remains committed to D.E.I.: "We continue to partner with leading external experts to help inform our D.E.I. programs and ensure we are utilizing best practices.")
Other jobs in the H.R. portfolio have not changed so much as multiplied. There are now so many workplace grievances that companies are calling in outside counsel to investigate more and more internal complaints, producing a robust source of billable hours at law firms.
One of those firms is Ogletree Deakins, which has offices in 32 states. After the start of the pandemic, so many corporate clients hired the firm to conduct internal investigations that in 2021 it created a dedicated practice group. Since then, the group has doubled its head count to 50 lawyers, from 25.
Many are looking into complaints by low-level H.R. employees against ones at higher levels.
Yes, the H.R. department wants help investigating itself.
"Let's say you've got employees who are complaining that there are systemic inequities, that there's unconscious bias, that harassment is running rampant," said Monique Gougisha Doucette, an Ogletree partner in the investigations department. "You typically go to H.R., but if your H.R. well is tainted from the top, then you can't do anything about it. Because you think the H.R. function is ultimately a sham."
Nobody at Unleash described H.R. in those terms, but many struggle with the divided allegiances that are built into the department's design. They also bristle at the invisibility of their best work. When H.R. lays off employees word gets around. When H.R. prevents layoffs, nobody knows.
"It's a thankless job," said Mr. Lagunas, of Aptitude. "That's why we come to conferences like this."
Photograph Top, Hebba Youssef, the chief people officer at Workweek, said human resources employees are compassionate, but many employees view them as evil. Above, a hat displays the name of her podcast and newsletter. Right, Kyle Lagunas, who works at an H.R. advisory company, said the pandemic turned a hard job into an almost impossible one. Far right, Vanessa Castillo once had to de-escalate a situation in which an employee brought a gun to the office. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALYSSA SCHUKAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DAVID DEGNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; OCTAVIO JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6.

Subject: Work at home; Human resources; Employees; Employment; Pandemics; Executives; Predatory pricing; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Work at home Human resources Employees Employment Executives Predatory pricing

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/03/business/human-resources-professionals-workplace.html

Title: Exasperated by Human Resources? Get in L ine.:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 4, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3087632443

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/exasperated-human-resources-get-line/docview/3087632443/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Corvette's Revival Doesn't Ensure Success For Electric Versions: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lawrence, Ulrich

Publication info: Lawrence, Ulrich. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corvettes-revival-doesnt-ensure-success-electric/docview/3087632366/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sales of sports cars have been steadily declining for about three decades, but there has been one exception to that trend. The Chevrolet Corvette has recently stormed back to near-record popularity.
Like the company that makes it, General Motors, the Corvette must now slalom around a trickier obstacle: transitioning to an electrified lineup, even as most sports-car buyers insist they have no interest in switching from gas pumps to plugs.
G.M. sold 53,785 of the eighth-generation Corvettes, or C8s, worldwide last year, just 22 shy of its top sales year in 1979. Americans bought about 34,000 of those, including Stingray coupes that start from $ 66,000, nearly twice as many Corvettes as they bought in 2019.
The car's revival has been driven by a change that may not seem a big deal to the average commuter. After seven decades as a classic front-engine two-seater, Chevrolet moved its V-8 behind the passengers, a midengine design typically associated with supercars from Ferrari or Lamborghini. Engineers at G.M. chose the $ 250,000 Ferrari 458 Italia as a target in performance and technology.
Alexander Edwards, president of Strategic Vision, a marketing research company, said the Corvette's more exotic recent design, relatively affordable prices and unapologetic attitude had driven its success.
"They delivered an authentic sports car, and that authenticity is such an important part of the purchase decision," Mr. Edwards said.
The Corvette's recent sales gains have bucked a broad trend of American drivers moving away from cars, especially sports cars and coupes, and toward sport-utility vehicles. Two-door cars like the Audi TT and the Mercedes SLK have disappeared. Toyota's reborn Supra sold fewer than 2,700 cars last year, less than one-tenth of Corvette's sales. Sales of what the industry calls "enthusiast cars" have fallen by half since 2000, to 223,000 last year, according to Motor Intelligence.
Even relatively affordable sports cars have struggled. The Ford Mustang, which racked up sales of 120,000 in 2015, managed fewer than 59,000 last year. G.M. has retired the Chevrolet Camaro and Stellantis has done away with the Dodge Challenger. Daniel Pund, editor in chief of Road & Track magazine, said many consumers drawn to fast, fashionable cars had shifted to luxury sport-utility vehicles or electric vehicles. Some potential buyers "are scared to drive a small, low car when everything else is a tall S.U.V.," Mr. Pund said.
Corvette appears to have avoided that fate in large part because of its decision to move the engine.
Tadge Juechter, who is retiring as the fifth Corvette chief engineer since the car's 1953 unveiling, said the median age of its buyer had been rising by roughly one year each year, topping out around 64. He knew that was unsustainable.
"It was a comfortable car for our traditional customers, but you're not going to sell a significant number to 100-year-olds," Mr. Juechter said.
A midengine Corvette, which some G.M. engineers and executives had considered since the 1960s, was meant to shake things up, including a design that could support future hybrid and electric versions. But some people at G.M. got cold feet. Mr. Juechter recalled "a strong push" to offer both the existing C7 and redesigned Corvette C8s in showrooms to keep its Bowling Green, Ky., factory humming and avoid alienating loyalists.
Executives eventually realized that when G.M. offered the C8, "we won't sell any of those old ones," Mr. Juechter said. "The midengine car was highly controversial, but in hindsight it looks brilliant," he added.
Brad Franz, Chevrolet's director of car and crossover marketing, said the C8 continued to attract boomers, while pulling a demographic coup: Its median buyer age has fallen to 55 from 64 over the last six years.
Mr. Pund recently met fanatical 'Vette owners during a driving tour from Bowling Green, where a Corvette museum sits near the factory, to North Carolina. He said G.M. had underestimated its customers' willingness to evolve with the car.
"Those owners don't think of the C8 as something radical," Mr. Pund said. "They just think of it as a new Corvette."
G.M. hopes to build on that momentum with an expanded lineup that now includes the 2024 Corvette E-Ray, the first hybrid version of the model and one of the first among mass-produced sports cars; Porsche will follow by year's end with a hybrid version of its 911 model.
Mr. Franz said G.M.'s early sales data suggested that the hybrid Corvette was attracting more college-educated, higher-income buyers.
I recently test drove the E-Ray in the Berkshires. Moving the engine -- a 495-horsepower V-8 -- behind the seats improves acceleration and handling, by keeping more weight in the car's center. It also clears room below the hood for an electric motor that sends 160 horsepower to front wheels, for a total 655 horsepower and an unfair fight against strictly gasoline-powered cars.
The result is the fastest-accelerating Corvette yet with a zero to 60 miles-per-hour time of 2.5 seconds. Its electric helping hand allows the E-Ray to run its engine in four-cylinder mode more often, bringing highway fuel efficiency to a federally rated 24 miles per gallon, versus 25 for a standard Stingray with 160 fewer horsepower.
A tiny hybrid battery slots into the center tunnel between the driver and passenger. And while the E-Ray requires no plug, the car's battery never runs dry because the car can fully recharge it in two to three miles of normal driving simply by recapturing braking energy.
Mr. Edwards said luring buyers to electrified Corvettes, or any two-seater, is not about a green pitch. "You talk about added performance, innovation or value," he said. "You don't call it an environmentally friendly sports car."
A fully electric Corvette might be next. G.M.'s president, Mark Reuss, said on LinkedIn in 2022 that the company would offer an electric Corvette "in the future," but the company has declined to provide any details.
Sports cars appear to be the final frontier for electrification. Most car enthusiasts became wedded to the signature sounds and driving character of favorite brands or models of internal-combustion engine cars from an early age, Mr. Juechter said. Many are deeply skeptical that electric versions can reproduce or replace them, despite any advantage in straight-line acceleration. A key objection is batteries that add too much weight, dulling the handling of what are supposed to be featherweight and agile cars. Finding enough space in these compact cars for batteries large enough to deliver satisfactory range is another challenge.
No automaker is mass-producing an electric two-seat sports car for the United States or Europe, although Porsche intends to replace its slow-selling gasoline-powered Boxster and Cayman models with electric versions next year. Ferrari says it will come out with its first electric car in 2026.
A survey of American car owners by Strategic Vision this year found that 56 percent were "absolutely not interested" in an electric vehicle, up from 51 percent in 2023. That rises to 60 percent for Corvette owners. Mr. Edwards said Chevrolet appears wise to keep offering gas, hybrid and, eventually, electric Corvettes.
"If you say pure E.V., a lot of Corvette people are going to walk away," he said. G.M. will "have an easier road if they have a balanced portfolio."
Mr. Edwards added that while G.M.'s electric cars were often impressive, the company had often fumbled their introductions. And G.M. hasn't done enough to persuade many of its customers to consider the new technology.
"They need to create that bridge from where they are, to where customers are going to be," he said. "Historically, G.M. has not done a good job of understanding how to talk to future and current customers without ticking everyone off."
G.M. executives said the E-Ray was expressly designed to be the most customer-friendly Corvette. Electricity is the secret sauce that allows all-wheel-drive, track-level performance and efficiency.
"Long before we announced the E-Ray, we had customers hollering at us, 'You'd better not make an electric Corvette!"' Mr. Juechter said. "But the E-Ray is a perfect mechanism to not be afraid of electricity, to show it can do great stuff for you."
Mr. Juechter said the Corvette, with its cultural familiarity and all-American image, could be an ambassador for electrification. That may be especially helpful in the Midwest and South, where the Corvette has a devoted following and electric vehicles are not as popular as they are on the coasts.
"The E-Ray is a great look at what the Corvette could become," he said.
Photograph Clockwise from top left: some finishing touches for a 2024 Corvette E-Ray, the first hybrid version of the model, at General Motors' Bowling Green, Ky., assembly plant; the E-Ray's hood detail; the E-Ray, now part of model's expanded lineup; and the National Corvette Museum in Bowling Green. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STACY KRANITZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU7.

Subject: Energy efficiency; Customers; Electric vehicles; Engineers; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Customers Factories

Company / organization: Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/21/business/chevrolet-corvette-electric-vehicles.html

Title: The Corvette's Revival Doesn't Ensure Success For Electric Versions:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 4, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3087632366

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corvettes-revival-doesnt-ensure-success-electric/docview/3087632366/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Before You Leap, Listen to Your Heart: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holmes, Anna

Publication info: Holmes, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/before-you-leap-listen-your-heart/docview/3087632346/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Send questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com . Include your name and location, or a request to remain anonymous. Letters may be edited.
A Question of Loyalty
I work for a smallish company (fewer than 100 corporate employees with and 1,500 field workers). I enjoy my job, the challenge, my co-workers and the good work-life balance. I was hired by a leader in the company who I've known professionally for many years. The role I was hired into was a bit of a stretch, and I think this person went out a bit on a limb to bring me in. Fast forward six years and I've excelled, been promoted and clearly made a positive impact on the company. One day, I received an email from a recruiter on LinkedIn about a similar role, but at a higher executive level and a larger organization with perhaps more prestige and compensation. I had not been looking for a new job, but I thought I shouldn't pass up an opportunity. I got pretty far in the interview process and the role seemed like a good fit, but then I also felt a heavy dose of guilt for leaving the leader who believed in me. Because of my conflicted feelings, I ended up not coming off as enthusiastic about the role in my final round and, ultimately, I didn't get the job. Perhaps it was all a blessing, but I'm not sure what to do if another opportunity presents itself. How loyal does one need to be to someone who is responsible for a lot of my career growth and success?
-- Albert
My first question for you: How much do you want a new job versus thinking you should want a new job? (Correct me if I'm wrong, but it doesn't sound like you need one.) We live in a culture, in which we feel we always need to be on the lookout for the next best thing. More prestige, more money, a bigger, "better" title. But what if we're happy where we are?
It sure sounds that you're in an enviable, if not ideal, position: You enjoy your job, your colleagues, and the work-life balance that your job affords. A lot of us working stiffs don't enjoy similar luxuries, or have this sort of luck. So the second question I'd urge you to ask yourself is this: What do you think the chances are that you might find these sorts of attributes in the context of a new job?
As for the loyalty issue, this is tougher, which is why I'm saving it for last. Were we all so content with our jobs, and our supervisors, that we feel such a measure of loyalty that the prospect of a new job causes such soul-searching!
Listen, looking out for No. 1 and not letting emotions like guilt dictate our career decisions is important in terms of building our careers. At the same time, there's something to be said for listening to one's heart and one's gut, and it sounds as if your heart (and your gut!) communicated something to these prospective employers, namely, that you aren't that enthusiastic about taking on a new job at a new company.
I think you should also ask yourself where, after six years in your current role, you might go from here. And then, if it feels like you're ready for a new challenge, I'd recommend asking your supervisor -- the person you're feeling such loyalty to -- what opportunities for advancement are available now or in the immediate future. Some career coaches might counsel that one way to get more responsibility in one's current position is to come to the table with a job offer from elsewhere, but that can be risky: Your current employer might call your bluff, so to speak. And if you're not actually ready to leave, then what? That said, it can't hurt to know what else is out there in terms of job opportunities. After all, knowledge may not be prestige, or a padded bank account, but it is its own form of power.
A Friend in Need
I have a good friend who is trying to advance her career. She has a top-notch résumé, sterling education credentials (Ivy League MBA) and a track record of clinching every job she has applied for in the past. But over the past couple of years, she has gained a substantial amount of weight, is becoming poorly groomed and her clothing choices seem off the mark for the type of job she aspires to. Our circle of friends feels bad that she is discouraged by the string of job rejections, but we all agree that she is either inattentive to or willfully ignoring choices that would better her chances for the career advancement she aspires to. Yet none of us wants to give honest advice for fear of hurting her feelings even more and jeopardizing our relationship. Is there a way to handle this?
-- Anonymous
How a person looks on the outside can often be a strong indicator of how they're feeling on the inside. It sounds as if your friend might be depressed. And depression can be part of a vicious cycle where we undervalue ourselves to the point where we communicate to others that they should undervalue us, either in behaviors or appearance. Or both.
I agree that you may hurt her feelings by giving her honest feedback about what might be holding her back in terms of finding a job -- first impressions, for better or worse, do matter. So I suggest you sit down with her and engage her in conversation not about her aesthetics -- please don't bring up her weight because, listen, those of us who've struggled with weight feel bad about it enough already -- but about her feelings. How is she doing? How is this string of job rejections affecting her? And what might she do to turn things around?
Inquiry around, and validation of, one's emotions and experiences by friends and family can go a long way toward instilling a measure of self-awareness that can lead to lasting change. Though you can't make her improve how she presents herself to the outside world, you can have an effect on how she feels about herself deep down, and in her most intimate, emotional moments. Offering her the opportunity to think aloud about this will give you -- and her -- valuable information as to how to best be of support, and maybe, just maybe, make some substantial changes. Good luck.
A Passive-Aggressive Boss
Last year, I was hired at a large NGO that operates in Washington, DC. This was my first job after finishing my master's degree, and I was excited to start off my career at a well-renowned organization. When I met my boss, I could tell she was friendly and helpful but also had a very straightforward attitude, which is fine by me because I'm the same way. As time goes on, I start being pelted with assignments left and right. This is not necessarily a problem, except for the fact that I was given assignments that were not only not in my job description, but also things I did not have any grasp on at that time. I consulted with a mentor and his reaction was one of surprise that my boss was assigning me such complex tasks so early on. But I wasn't in a position to make a fuss about it so I sucked it up and did my best to learn as I went. The problems really started once my manager started contacting me on weekends to fix mistakes she noticed on my assignments. My problem with that was the mistakes were for things that I had absolutely zero experience doing and the fact that my weekends were being rudely interrupted. The other issue was terseness and passive aggressiveness. In person, she would treat me exactly as her other subordinates, but online it was a completely different story. This is what made her behavior hard to explain and pinpoint to upper management and H.R. My co-workers understood me, and my friends and family who read her words balked at them for being so rude. But her supervisors never treated this as a big issue. I am open to being wrong and trying to see the situation from a different perspective. But I would like your thoughts on this.
-- Anonymous
This is a lot to process, but it's clear that your boss is being overly demanding, passive-aggressive and downright rude. It sounds like you've already tried to engage upper management and H.R. about your supervisor's behavior. And it sounds that they've done little to nothing about it. So, I'm torn. My instinct is to tell you to approach your supervisor directly and communicate to her that you want to have a better working relationship. You can ask what you can do to improve things -- not just your actual work, but your relationship to her. See what she says. If she responds negatively or -- ugh -- tersely, I'd set up another meeting with H.R. to discuss how the meeting with your supervisor went, and your continued concerns about your relationship with her. I'd also think about other job opportunities. You sound pretty displeased with your job, and for good reason. It might be time to consider moving to a workplace where you feel you and your work are being treated a little less roughly.
Anna Holmes has published two books, including "The Book of Jezebel," based on the website she founded in 2007.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARGEAUX WALTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Careers; Loyalty; Passive-aggressive behavior; Supervisors; Work life balance

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers Loyalty Supervisors Work life balance

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/04/business/work-friend-boss-loyalty.html

Title: Before You Leap, Listen to Your Heart:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 4, 2024

column: Work Friend

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3087632346

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/before-you-leap-listen-your-heart/docview/3087632346/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Wealthy Backers of Buttigieg Said to Be Working to Get Him on Ticket: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wealthy-backers-buttigieg-said-be-working-get-him/docview/3087066168/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Wealthy Democrats who support Pete Buttigieg are working behind the scenes to help him win a spot on Kamala Harris's ticket.
Around 24 hours after President Biden made his stunning exit from the presidential race, Pete Buttigieg gathered about 100 of his past donors on a Zoom call.
The call, according to the invitation and to three participants who described it on the condition of anonymity because it was private, was meant to rally his influential benefactors to raise money for Vice President Kamala Harris.
But Mr. Buttigieg, the transportation secretary and a 2020 presidential candidate, made an admission during the Q. and A. that struck at least one person on the call as unusually candid, a message he would bring to television in the ensuing days: Yes, of course he was interested in being Ms. Harris's running mate if it were on the table.
After he spoke, some people on the call said they would love to see him join the ticket and encouraged listeners to put in a good word for him with members of Ms. Harris's orbit, one participant recalled.
That set the wheels in motion for members of this close-knit network of wealthy Democrats who are again trying to propel Mr. Buttigieg to higher office. Some of them immediately began scrolling through their contact lists, reaching out on Mr. Buttigieg's behalf to prominent Democrats connected to Ms. Harris in a loose, disjointed effort.
This account is based on conversations with eight fund-raisers for Mr. Buttigieg who either were on the Zoom call or are involved in the subsequent outreach.
Mr. Buttigieg has not been coordinating this effort, which is not abnormal in modern vice-presidential shadow campaigning. But if the race to be Ms. Harris's running mate were decided by major Democratic donors and MSNBC viewers, Mr. Buttigieg might win in a landslide.
Mr. Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Ind. -- who would be the first openly gay vice-presidential nominee -- is being vetted for the job by the Harris campaign.
But people involved in the process see him as something of a long shot, given the popular Democrats, including a senator and several governors, under consideration.
For one thing, for all his prowess on cable television, Mr. Buttigieg is unlikely to provide an electoral college boost, as he comes from the reliably Republican state of Indiana and recently moved to Michigan, where Gov. Gretchen Whitmer is already leading the effort for Ms. Harris.
And if he is not chosen as her No. 2, Ms. Harris's ascent could be a serious obstacle for the highly ambitious Mr. Buttigieg, especially if she wins in November. She would be expected to seek re-election in 2028, and it would be unclear what national office Mr. Buttigieg could reach for in the meantime, perhaps leaving him eyeing statewide office or the private sector.
Mr. Buttigieg's donor network, however, is an asset some other contenders cannot match. Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota and Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky are both leading contenders, but they have few big donors outside their home states.
Two other vice-presidential hopefuls, Senator Mark Kelly of Arizona and Gov. Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania, do have a history of raising large sums from out-of-state donors, but they lack the worker bees surrounding Mr. Buttigieg.
Mr. Kelly raised $ 190 million across his two Senate runs in 2020 and 2022. And with his wife, Gabrielle Giffords, he founded a national gun-control group whose super PAC has raised $ 80 million since its creation in 2013.
In that role, Mr. Kelly raised big money from billionaires who care about gun violence like Marc Benioff, Ron Conway, Connie Ballmer and Michael R. Bloomberg.
Amber Mostyn, a Houston trial lawyer and a major Democratic donor, said she thought Mr. Kelly "would be a fantastic choice," praising his communication skills. Her law firm donated $ 750,000 to the gun-control group, now called Giffords.
Another pro-gun-control donor, Mr. Bloomberg, is closer to Mr. Shapiro, giving him $ 1 million in 2022. Howard Wolfson, an adviser to Mr. Bloomberg, said he and Mr. Bloomberg saw Mr. Shapiro as a "good, mainstream, moderate, effective governor."
In his three campaigns for statewide office, Mr. Shapiro has traveled often to Silicon Valley to court contributions. His billionaire backers from the tech industry include the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman and the cryptocurrency billionaire Chris Larsen, each of whom gave him about $ 1 million last year.
"I'm making the case for him with everyone I can," said Mr. Larsen.
It is not clear that Ms. Harris needs her running mate to be a powerful fund-raiser, given that her campaign brought in $ 200 million in the week after Mr. Biden had dropped out. One person close to Mr. Buttigieg's political team said its argument had focused more on his appeal to Midwestern voters than on his financial connections.
But donors, as always, are eager to be heard. And of all the contenders, Mr. Buttigieg appears to have the strongest lobbying operation behind him.
The small-town mayor rose to the top tier of the Democratic pack in 2019 in part because of his ability to raise money. His financiers took to so-called bundling, or organized fund-raising on a candidate's behalf, like a sport. They formed bonds with one another during his campaign that have lasted far longer than is typical.
Mr. Buttigieg eventually dropped out and backed Mr. Biden. But to this day, his "investors," as he called them, share fund-raising invitations and send text messages or WhatsApp chats with their favorite clips of Mr. Buttigieg, such as his widely viewed appearance on Fox News last weekend.
Mr. Buttigieg himself has tried to stay close to these supporters even while serving as transportation secretary. He reconnected with some of them in December at a party at a private home in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, D.C., that went until 1:30 a.m.
And now, some of his fund-raisers are, on an abridged timeline, reaching out to people in Ms. Harris's orbit. Eleni Kounalakis, California's lieutenant governor and a Democratic fund-raiser herself, is among the allies of Ms. Harris who have been contacted, according to two people with knowledge of the outreach. Ms. Kounalakis backed Mr. Buttigieg in 2020.
Many financial supporters of Mr. Buttigieg are nevertheless somewhat pessimistic about his chances.
Susie Tompkins Buell, a Democratic fund-raiser in San Francisco who made a splash when she decided to back Mr. Buttigieg alongside Ms. Harris during the 2020 Democratic primary, said it would be "expecting a lot" for the Harris campaign to choose him.
"I mean, we've got to go bold," she said. "It's big to have a woman of color and a gay man. I think that would be ideal. That was my ideal team. But we also have to be realistic."
Lizanne Rosenstein, who hosted Mr. Biden in the Hamptons just a few days after his catastrophic debate against former President Donald J. Trump last month, was one of the fund-raisers for Mr. Buttigieg on the Zoom call last week.
Ms. Rosenstein has supported Mr. Kelly as well. She made a $ 100,000 contribution to Giffords in 2014, and has stayed close to Mr. Kelly's campaigns.
"I am really excited about any of the supposed front-runners," she said. "But I would be doing the happy dance if it were either of the two of them."
Photograph Pete Buttigieg, the secretary of transportation who also was mayor of South Bend, Ind., would be the first openly gay nominee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Fund raising; Nominations; State elections; Governors; Presidential elections

People: Harris, Kamala; Buttigieg, Pete

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/30/us/politics/pete-buttigieg-kamala-harris-running-mate.html

Title: Wealthy Backers of Buttigieg Said to Be Working to Get Him on Ticket:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 2, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3087066168

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wealthy-backers-buttigieg-said-be-working-get-him/docview/3087066168/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Group of Silicon Valley Investors Pledge to Back Harris Campaign: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore; Isaac, Mike; Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore; Isaac, Mike; Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/group-silicon-valley-investors-pledge-back-harris/docview/3086533237/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The group, including Democratic donors such as Reid Hoffman and Vinod Khosla, has been organized under an effort called VCsForKamala.
Keep up with the latest election news on Kamala Harris and Donald Trump.
More than 100 venture capitalists said on Wednesday that they had pledged to vote for Vice President Kamala Harris in November and had solicited donations for her presidential campaign, in a rejoinder to the splintering among tech leaders over whom to support in the election.
The group includes Reid Hoffman, a founder of LinkedIn; Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures; Mark Cuban, the former principal owner of the Dallas Mavericks; Ron Conway, a well-known angel investor; and the billionaire Chris Sacca.
"We are pro-business, pro-American dream, pro-entrepreneurship and pro-technological progress," the group said in a statement posted to their website, VCsForKamala.org. "We also believe in democracy as the backbone of our nation." The website asks people to sign a pledge to support Ms. Harris and another to donate to her campaign.
The effort was buttressed by another group of tech entrepreneurs and workers called Tech For Kamala, which also wrote a letter this week expressing "enthusiastic and unwavering support for Vice President Harris." The letter gathered more than 550 signatures in two days.
The moves are perhaps the most public pushback to right-wing venture capitalists and executives whom some tech leaders see as dominating political conversation in the tech community. For years, Silicon Valley was largely considered a liberal bastion. But over the past few weeks, Elon Musk, who leads Tesla, SpaceX and X, and the investors Marc Andreessen, Ben Horowitz and David Sacks have endorsed former President Donald J. Trump, the Republican nominee.
While these conservatives -- such as Mr. Musk, who created a new pro-Trump super PAC, and Mr. Sacks, who spoke at the Republican National Convention -- never represented a majority of the rank-and-file employees in the tech industry, the right is ascendant in Silicon Valley in a way that it had not been in over a decade.
But since President Biden announced this month that he would not seek re-election and would support Ms. Harris as the Democratic presidential nominee, dozens of venture capitalists have started speaking out against that narrative.
"They don't speak for me," said Leslie Feinzaig, a managing director of the venture firm Graham & Walker and a primary organizer of VCsForKamala, referring to Mr. Musk, Mr. Sacks and others. "They don't speak for most of us. And they don't speak for the founders."
Ms. Feinzaig said the "tweet after tweet after tweet of these guys coming out and supporting Trump" was in part what had spurred the group to snap into action. She added that the effort had come together quickly over the past week as excitement over Ms. Harris's candidacy rose and that she reached out to Mr. Hoffman.
Ms. Feinzaig circulated a Google sign-up form soliciting venture capitalists to join the pledge, calling it a "grass-roots effort" and saying it was not meant to signify an alignment with any one political party, according to a copy of the page viewed by The New York Times. Signing the pledge is a vote for "strong, trustworthy institutions," according to the group's website statement.
"Let's show founders that not all V.C.s have turned MAGA," the sign-up form read.
The investors have also launched a landing page to track donations made to the Harris campaign, although organizers said they were not actively bundling contributions.
Some Democratic donors and operatives tied to Silicon Valley privately worried that the Biden campaign had not paid close enough attention to the shifting politics in the tech industry. The Harris campaign has sought to organize Silicon Valley leaders more, and Ms. Harris, who is from the San Francisco Bay Area, is planning a fund-raising trip there as soon as next month.
Julia Collins, the founder of the climate tech start-up Planet FWD, who organized the Tech For Kamala letter, said the group was working with other tech groups and hoped to do "one of those iconic Zoom calls" to get people involved. She was referring to the series of organizing calls that supporters have held for Ms. Harris.
"What we're building is a grass-roots movement that includes all people in tech, not just the luminaries, not just the billionaires," Ms. Collins said.
Photograph Among the executives who have united to help Vice President Kamala Harris are, from left: Reid Hoffman, a LinkedIn founder; Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures; Mark Cuban, the ex-principal owner of the Dallas Mavericks; and Ron Conway. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE COHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; COLE BURSTON/AFP VIA GETTY IMAGES; LM OTERO/ASSOCIATED PRESS; DAVID 'DEE' DELGADO/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Political campaigns; Nominations; Presidential elections; Angel investors; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Angel investors Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala; Cuban, Mark

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Dallas Mavericks; NAICS: 711211; Name: Khosla Ventures; NAICS: 523910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/31/technology/silicon-valley-investors-support-kamala-harris.html

Title: Group of Silicon Valley Investors Pledge to Back Harris Campaign:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 1, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3086533237

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/group-silicon-valley-investors-pledge-back-harris/docview/3086533237/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Election-Year Fights Divide Billionaires in Silicon Valley: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ryan, Mac; Griffith, Erin; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Griffith, Erin; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/election-year-fights-divide-billionaires-silicon/docview/3085829612/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk, Reid Hoffman and other tech billionaires, many of whom are part of the "PayPal Mafia," are openly brawling with one another over politics as tensions rise.
Less than an hour after a gunman in Butler, Pa., tried to assassinate Donald J. Trump this month, David Sacks, a venture capitalist based in San Francisco, directed his anger about the incident toward a former colleague.
"The Left normalized this," Mr. Sacks wrote on X, linking to a post about Reid Hoffman, a technology investor and major Democratic donor. Mr. Sacks implied that Mr. Hoffman, a critic of Mr. Trump who had funded a lawsuit accusing the former president of rape and defamation, had helped cause the shooting.
Elon Musk, who leads SpaceX and Tesla and previously worked with Mr. Sacks and Mr. Hoffman, then weighed in on X, name-checking Mr. Hoffman and saying people like him "got their dearest wish."
In Silicon Valley, the spectacle of tech billionaire attacking tech billionaire has suddenly exploded, as pro-Trump executives and their Democratic counterparts have openly turned on each other. The brawling has spilled into public view online, at conferences and on podcasts, as debates about the country's future have turned into personal broadsides.
The animus has pit those who once worked side by side and attended each other's weddings against one another, fraying friendships and alliances that could shift Silicon Valley's power centers. The fighting has been particularly acute among the "PayPal Mafia," a wealthy group of tech executives -- including Mr. Hoffman, Mr. Musk, Mr. Sacks and the investor Peter Thiel -- who worked together at the online payments company in the 1990s and later founded their own companies or turned into high-profile investors.
Other tech leaders have also been pulled into the political spats, including Vinod Khosla, a prominent investor, and Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz of the Silicon Valley venture firm Andreessen Horowitz.
Their unabashed vitriol is stark. While tech leaders often criticize one another in private, they rarely do so publicly for fear of upsetting a potential deal partner or future job prospect.
"Until a year or two ago, there was something like an omertà in Silicon Valley," said Roger McNamee, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist, using a word popularized by the Italian mafia for a code of silence. "People had fights all the time and leaders would disagree, but you wouldn't disagree in public."
Mr. McNamee jumped into the rumpus on Wednesday by calling out Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Horowitz, who both recently endorsed Mr. Trump, for their "antidemocratic" values on X. Mr. McNamee had previously invested in a company that Mr. Horowitz led.
Mr. Horowitz shot back on Thursday, invoking his 25-year business relationship with Mr. McNamee. "Really Roger?" Mr. Horowitz wrote. "Your very first idea when we disagree is to attack me in a tweet?"
The altercations show how Silicon Valley's identity is fragmenting. For years, the nation's tech capital was seen as a liberal bastion. But Mr. Sacks, Mr. Musk, Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Horowitz all broke from that view by endorsing Mr. Trump in recent weeks.
Many of them were unhappy with President Biden's tech policies and regulatory appointees, who have pursued more rules and lawsuits against tech companies. They prefer Mr. Trump for his push to lower taxes and his support for the cryptocurrency industry, which some of the tech billionaires have invested in.
"There's been shaming and canceling on the left for some time," said Trevor Traina, a Republican in San Francisco who served as ambassador to Austria during Mr. Trump's presidency and is close to Mr. Sacks and Mr. Hoffman. "And now you're starting to hear strong voices on the right in Silicon Valley."
Democratic tech executives and investors have countered that Mr. Trump is not good for tech. They say Mr. Trump and his allies have talked about throwing Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Meta, in prison; suggested breaking up big tech companies; and proposed strict immigration policies, which could hinder the industry's hiring of skilled workers.
Mr. Hoffman, Mr. Thiel and an Andreessen Horowitz representative declined to comment. Mr. Sacks and Mr. Musk did not respond to requests for comment.
Political tensions began escalating into personal attacks last month after Mr. Sacks held an ornate fund-raiser for Mr. Trump in San Francisco. Days later, Mr. Hoffman, who gave at least $ 10 million to bolster President Biden's campaign, chided Mr. Sacks in a blog post for following "pro-Trump groupthink" and backing "a convicted felon."
At a conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, this month, Mr. Hoffman got into a heated exchange with Mr. Thiel, who has funded Republicans, according to a person briefed on the conversation. The longtime friends bickered over Mr. Hoffman's stance against Mr. Trump, leading Mr. Hoffman to sarcastically say that he wished he had made the former president "an actual martyr," the person said. The exchange was reported earlier by Puck.
After the assassination attempt on Mr. Trump, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Musk used Mr. Hoffman's words to criticize their former colleague. Mr. Hoffman responded last week by pointing out that some current supporters of Mr. Trump, including Mr. Sacks, had disavowed Mr. Trump in 2021 after the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol.
"If you have integrity and you're supporting Trump in this election, you should address that," Mr. Hoffman said in a podcast appearance on Wednesday.
This month, Mr. Sacks shared a list of pro-Trump techies on X and spoke at the Republican National Convention, which grated on Democratic tech investors and entrepreneurs, said Siri Srinivas, an investor at Gradient Ventures. After President Biden withdrew from the race and Vice President Kamala Harris became the presumptive Democratic nominee, many of those investors and entrepreneurs were energized and felt more emboldened to speak out, she said.
"Weeks of private hand-wringing likely helped many to urgently and emphatically show their support for Harris and opposition to Trump," Ms. Srinivas said. On Tuesday, she mimicked Mr. Sacks's list by posting a roster of the industry's Harris supporters on X.
Mr. Sacks has since continued his verbal attacks, taking aim last week at Reed Hastings, a Netflix founder who is a major Democratic donor. On X, Mr. Sacks called Mr. Hastings a "useful idiot" for supporting the Democratic Party.
Mr. Hastings did not respond to a request for comment.
Some tech luminaries have stayed out of the fray, including Mr. Zuckerberg. In 2016 when Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. Zuckerberg posted on his Facebook page that "progress does not move in a straight line," alluding to Mr. Trump without naming him. But this time, the Meta chief has not talked about politics.
The exception was an interview with Bloomberg this month, in which Mr. Zuckerberg complimented Mr. Trump's "fist-pump" moment after the assassination attempt. Mr. Zuckerberg's decision to take a less vocal approach to politics could improve strained relationships in Washington and potentially with Mr. Trump if he is elected, two people familiar with the discussions said.
A Meta spokesman declined to comment.
Some tech entrepreneurs are reacting to the politicking. Merci Grace, a start-up founder in San Francisco, said she felt "betrayed" by Mr. Andreessen's and Mr. Horowitz's endorsements of Mr. Trump and would not work with their venture firm. Ms. Grace, who supports abortion rights and once had surgery after a life-threatening ectopic pregnancy, said she opposed the stance against abortion from JD Vance, Mr. Trump's running mate.
"The way in which Ben and Marc are claiming they're single-issue voters for Trump is so galling to me, because men have been throwing that line in my face for years as a way to dismiss the life-or-death stakes of abortion access," Ms. Grace said, referring to the investors' support of Mr. Trump because of what they said were his pro-tech policies. "Yes, I'm a single issue voter, too. Being alive is my issue."
But Mr. Khosla, who supports Ms. Harris, said the fights over politics would not leave lasting fractures in the tech industry, where innovation ultimately reigns supreme.
"I'll work with almost anyone if what I'm working on can change the world," he said.
Photograph Clockwise from top left: Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures; David Sacks, a tech investor; Reid Hoffman, a founder of LinkedIn; and Elon Musk, the head of SpaceX and Tesla. Mr. Khosla and Mr. Hoffman are supporting Democrats, and Mr. Sacks and Mr. Musk have backed Republicans. The political split has frayed some Silicon Valley alliances. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANASTASIIA SAPON FOR NYT; KENNY HOLSTON/NYT; CLARA MOKRI FOR NYT; KEVIN MOHATT/REUTERS) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Political parties; Venture capital; Presidents; Abortion; Assassinations & assassination attempts; Endorsements; High tech industries

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital High tech industries

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Musk, Elon; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Hoffman, Reid; Sacks, David

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/29/technology/silicon-valley-politics-elon-musk-reid-hoffman.html

Title: Election-Year Fights Divide Billionaires in Silicon Valley:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 30, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3085829612

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/election-year-fights-divide-billionaires-silicon/docview/3085829612/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Major Donors Leap to Fund Vice President: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/major-donors-leap-fund-vice-president/docview/3084620907/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Given weeks instead of years to cultivate donors, the vice president's allies are armed with a new logo and burning up the phones.
The high-dollar fund-raising world is whirring to life for Vice President Kamala Harris after weeks in which Democratic donors were dejected, demoralized and utterly battered.
Since the announcement of her presidential campaign, Ms. Harris has not only raked in $ 130 million primarily from small donors, but also gathered big check after big check from billionaires and millionaires as they stockpile money into the newly renamed Harris Victory Fund. Her fund-raisers, armed with a new Harris logo, went to work.
Major fund-raisers -- one of whom told President Biden's campaign just days ago that he thought the campaign could count on only about 25 percent of its allied donors to support Mr. Biden -- are now swamped with a flood of interest from donors.
Ms. Harris has no time to waste, having taken over the top of the Democratic ticket with just over 100 days to go and without the years of lead time that Mr. Biden had to cultivate major donors, soothe them and coax them to hand over their money. On Friday, Ms. Harris is scheduled to address her National Finance Committee for the first time, according to an invitation seen by The New York Times.
Harris campaign officials spent Tuesday and Wednesday energizing their supporters from Beverly Hills to the Hamptons.
On Wednesday, about 40 high-powered finance and Big Law executives joined a Zoom call organized by the superlawyer Brad Karp, the former New York City mayoral candidate Ray McGuire and a few others to discuss how Wall Street could best support a Harris ticket. Speakers included Rufus Gifford, the campaign's finance chair, and donors inquired about Ms. Harris's position on Israel, her posture on the economy and her selection of a running mate, according to two people on the call.
In Hollywood, Harris campaign officials joined calls on Tuesday and Wednesday with people from across the creative and entertainment industry to talk about fund-raising and organize celebrities on behalf of the Harris campaign, according to two people with knowledge of the outreach.
"Donors are calling asking how and where can I contribute to Harris for President," said Andy Spahn, a top fund-raiser in Hollywood. He added that there was "tremendous excitement and enthusiasm for Kamala's candidacy here."
Farther north in California, in Silicon Valley, venture capitalists were circulating letters that they planned to publicly release in which they would announce their support for Ms. Harris, in part to combat the narrative that their industry is tilting rightward, according to two people with knowledge of the letters. Harris campaign officials in phone calls this week have asked tech leaders for help organizing their industry's support, the people said.
Steve Spinner, who was a top Democratic fund-raiser in the tech industry for Barack Obama's campaign in 2008, said there was something that was "beautiful about Sunday and Monday" that had reminded him of that year.
"It was the first time we've had an Obama-like moment," he said of Ms. Harris's swift ascent after Mr. Biden dropped out of the race, "a feeling where it was pure and it was good, and people were doing things bigger than themselves."
A Silicon Valley fund-raising swing for the campaign is in the works, according to three people familiar with the planning. There is significant demand from within the tech industry to host one of the events, one of the people said, and one person expected to be involved is Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder and Democratic megadonor.
But the tight calendar means that Ms. Harris may not have the time to engage in an aggressive high-dollar fund-raising operation, traveling from coast to coast and midsize city to midsize city. Instead, she may hope to be bolstered primarily by small-dollar donors and a few virtual events sprinkled throughout her travel to battleground states.
Surrogates could fill in the gaps: Doug Emhoff, now vying to become the first gentleman, has taken over a series of events in Cape Cod summer haunts like Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, according to copies of the invitations, which also mentioned a gathering that would feature a "conversation" between him and David Letterman. The events were originally going to be headlined by Jill Biden.
In mid-August, the playwright David Henry Hwang will put on a performance of his musical "Soft Power," which will serve as a Harris fund-raiser in suburban Washington, and Senator Raphael Warnock of Georgia is scheduled to attend another event on Martha's Vineyard.
Ms. Harris's running mate might have to play a big role in fund-raising. Some donors are beginning to kick the tires early: Business leaders who are part of a group called the Leadership Now Project have invited four vice-presidential contenders -- Governors Andy Beshear of Kentucky, Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania and Roy Cooper of North Carolina, as well as Senator Mark Kelly of Arizona -- to introductory sessions with their members over the next few days, according to a person with knowledge of the schedule.
In recent days, several Democratic fund-raisers connected to Ms. Harris, such as Stephanie Daily Smith, who has long raised money for her in Southern California, have started re-engaging with their networks to bring prominent supporters of the vice president -- not all of whom were involved with the Biden campaign -- into the fold.
Mr. Biden's existing fund-raising leadership team, including Mr. Gifford, is expected to remain in place, according to two people close to the team, although allies of Ms. Harris like Ms. Daily Smith will most likely rise in prominence. Members of Mr. Biden's team sticking around include Jeffrey Katzenberg, the Hollywood mogul, who helped lead fund-raising for the campaign as one of its co-chairs. Mr. Katzenberg, who was quiet publicly as the Biden campaign deteriorated, broke his silence on Wednesday in a New York Times guest essay that saluted both Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris.
Big donors are important not only to the campaign but also to the constellation of outside groups that are able to accept checks of unlimited size. Indeed, seven- and eight-figure donations are again flowing into super PACs like Future Forward, a Democratic big-money group that was beleaguered by donor anxiety after Mr. Biden's catastrophic debate but has since rebounded to the tune of $ 150 million.
Major Democratic donors say privately that they do not anticipate any significant changes to the outside groups supporting Ms. Harris.
But one group that is poised to play a more prominent role than it would have under Mr. Biden is Emily's List, which has fiercely defended Ms. Harris and runs a super PAC that supports female candidates who back abortion rights.
The super PAC said this week that it would spend at least $ 20 million to help Ms. Harris, beginning with new ads this week. Stephanie Schriock, a former longtime president of Emily's List, is close with several major female donors and Ms. Harris. Ms. Schriock has been among the names floated by Harris allies as a possible addition to the campaign.
Time is of the essence. Preserve America, a conservative super PAC funded primarily by the casino mogul Miriam Adelson, is about to begin a television ad campaign around the time of the Olympics, which will start on Friday in Paris. It is planning to air $ 41 million in ads to help Donald J. Trump's campaign through the end of August.
MAGA Inc., another pro-Trump super PAC, will air $ 21 million worth of ads, too, during July and August. Over that two-month period, allied Democrats are currently scheduled to have nearly $ 1 million booked in advertising, according to the media-tracking service AdImpact.
Once Ms. Harris and her donors make it to September, they will probably be in better shape: Future Forward and its affiliated nonprofit group have about $ 133 million in bookings reserved in that month and November.
Reporting was contributed by Nicole Sperling, Rob Copeland and Sharon LaFraniere.
Reporting was contributed by Nicole Sperling, Rob Copeland and Sharon LaFraniere.
Photograph A campaign rally for Vice President Kamala Harris on Tuesday in Milwaukee. Checks have poured in from small donors, billionaires and millionaires alike with just over 100 days until the election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Fund raising; Political action committees--PAC; Logos; Presidential elections; Political advertising; Wealth; Political leadership; Campaign contributions

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Wealth

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/25/us/politics/kamala-harris-donors-fund-raising.html

Title: Major Donors Leap to Fund Vice President:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 26, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3084620907

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/major-donors-leap-fund-vice-president/docview/3084620907/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kamala Harris’ Fundraising Machine Cranks Into High Gear

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kamala-harris-fundraising-machine-cranks-into/docview/3084418702/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — The high-dollar fundraising world is whirring to life for Vice President Kamala Harris after weeks in which Democratic donors were dejected, demoralized and utterly battered.
Since the announcement of her presidential campaign, Harris has not only raked in $130 million primarily from small donors but also gathered big check after big check from billionaires and millionaires as they stockpile money into the newly renamed Harris Victory Fund. Her fundraisers, armed with a new Harris logo, went to work.
Major fundraisers — one of whom told President Joe Biden’s campaign just days ago that he thought the campaign could count on only about 25% of its allied donors to support Biden — are now swamped with a flood of interest from donors.
Harris has no time to waste, having taken over the top of the Democratic ticket with just over 100 days to go and without the years of lead time that Biden had to cultivate major donors, soothe them and coax them to hand over their money. On Friday, Harris is scheduled to address her National Finance Committee for the first time, according to an invitation seen by The New York Times.
Harris campaign officials spent Tuesday and Wednesday energizing their supporters from Beverly Hills to the Hamptons.
On Wednesday, about 40 high-powered finance and Big Law executives joined a Zoom call organized by superlawyer Brad Karp, former New York City mayoral candidate Ray McGuire and a few others to discuss how Wall Street could best support a Harris ticket. Speakers included Rufus Gifford, the campaign’s finance chair, and donors inquired about Harris’ position on Israel, her posture on the economy and her selection of a running mate, according to two people on the call.
In Hollywood, Harris campaign officials joined calls Tuesday and Wednesday with people from across the creative and entertainment industry to talk about fundraising and organize celebrities on behalf of the Harris campaign, according to two people with knowledge of the outreach.
“Donors are calling asking, ‘How and where can I contribute to Harris for President?’” said Andy Spahn, a top fundraiser in Hollywood. He added that there was “tremendous excitement and enthusiasm for Kamala’s candidacy here.”
Farther north in California, in Silicon Valley, venture capitalists were circulating letters that they planned to publicly release in which they would announce their support for Harris, in part to combat the narrative that their industry is tilting rightward, according to two people with knowledge of the letters. Harris campaign officials in phone calls this week have asked tech leaders for help organizing their industry’s support, the people said.
Steve Spinner, who was a top Democratic fundraiser in the tech industry for Barack Obama’s campaign in 2008, said there was something that was “beautiful about Sunday and Monday” that had reminded him of that year.
“It was the first time we’ve had an Obama-like moment,” he said of Harris’ swift ascent after Biden dropped out of the race, “a feeling where it was pure and it was good, and people were doing things bigger than themselves.”
A Silicon Valley fundraising swing for the campaign is in the works, according to three people familiar with the planning. There is significant demand from within the tech industry to host one of the events, one of the people said, and one person expected to be involved is Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder and Democratic megadonor.
But the tight calendar means that Harris may not have the time to engage in an aggressive high-dollar fundraising operation, traveling from coast to coast and midsize city to midsize city. Instead, she may hope to be bolstered primarily by small-dollar donors and a few virtual events sprinkled throughout her travel to battleground states.
Surrogates could fill in the gaps: Doug Emhoff, now vying to become the first gentleman, has taken over a series of events in Cape Cod summer haunts like Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket, according to copies of the invitations, which also mentioned a gathering that would feature a “conversation” between him and David Letterman. The events were originally going to be headlined by Jill Biden.
In mid-August, playwright David Henry Hwang will put on a performance of his musical “Soft Power,” which will serve as a Harris fundraiser in suburban Washington, and Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga., is scheduled to attend another event on Martha’s Vineyard.
Harris’ running mate might have to play a big role in fundraising. Some donors are beginning to kick the tires early: Business leaders who are part of a group called the Leadership Now Project have invited four vice presidential contenders — Govs. Andy Beshear of Kentucky, Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania and Roy Cooper of North Carolina, as well as Sen. Mark Kelly of Arizona — to introductory sessions with their members over the next few days, according to a person with knowledge of the schedule.
In recent days, several Democratic fundraisers connected to Harris, such as Stephanie Daily Smith, who has long raised money for Harris in Southern California, have started reengaging with their networks to bring prominent supporters of the vice president — not all of whom were involved with the Biden campaign — into the fold.
Biden’s existing fundraising leadership team, including Gifford, is expected to remain in place, according to two people close to the team, although allies of Harris like Daily Smith will most likely rise in prominence. Members of Biden’s team sticking around include Jeffrey Katzenberg, the Hollywood mogul, who helped lead fundraising for the campaign as one of its co-chairs. Katzenberg, who was quiet publicly as the Biden campaign deteriorated, broke his silence Wednesday in a New York Times guest essay that saluted both Biden and Harris.
Big donors are important not only to the campaign but also to the constellation of outside groups that are able to accept checks of unlimited size. Indeed, seven- and eight-figure donations are again flowing into super political action committees like Future Forward, a Democratic big-money group that was beleaguered by donor anxiety after Biden’s catastrophic debate but has since rebounded to the tune of $150 million.
Major Democratic donors say privately that they do not anticipate any significant changes to the outside groups supporting Harris.
But one group that is poised to play a more prominent role than it would have under Biden is Emily’s List, which has fiercely defended Harris and runs a super PAC that supports female candidates who back abortion rights.
The super PAC said this week that it would spend at least $20 million to help Harris, beginning with new ads this week. Stephanie Schriock, a former longtime president of Emily’s List, is close with several major female donors and Harris. Schriock has been among the names floated by Harris allies as a possible addition to the campaign.
Time is of the essence. Preserve America, a conservative super PAC funded primarily by casino mogul Miriam Adelson, is about to begin a television ad campaign around the time of the Olympics, which will start Friday in Paris. It is planning to air $41 million in ads to help Donald Trump’s campaign through the end of August.
MAGA Inc., another pro-Trump super PAC, will air $21 million worth of ads, too, during July and August. Over that two-month period, allied Democrats are currently scheduled to have nearly $1 million booked in advertising, according to the media-tracking service AdImpact.
Once Harris and her donors make it to September, they will probably be in better shape: Future Forward and its affiliated nonprofit group have about $133 million in bookings reserved in that month and November.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Fund raising; Political campaigns; Leadership; Political action committees--PAC; Presidential elections; Political advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Beshear, Andrew G (1977 ); Warnock, Raphael G; Nantucket (Mass); Beverly Hills (Calif); Harris, Kamala D; Letterman, David; Shapiro, Josh (1973 ); Political Advertising; Obama, Barack; Senate; Hamptons (Ny); Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Stockpiling; New York City; Onpoint Nyc (Nonprofit); Linkedin Corporation; Arizona; Israel; Georgia; Kentucky; Elections; Philanthropy; Presidential Election Of 2020; Olympic Games (2024); Cape Cod (Mass); Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Politics And Government; Hollywood (Calif); California; Biden, Jill Tracy Jacobs; Hwang, David Henry; North Carolina; Presidential Election Of 2024; Political Action Committees; Future Forward Usa Action (Political Organization); United States Politics And Government; Wages And Salaries; Pennsylvania; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Kelly, Mark E (1964 ); Democratic Party; Katzenberg, Jeffrey; Television; Trump, Donald J; Zoom Video Communications; Emhoff, Douglas C; Cooper, Roy A; Campaign Finance; New York Times; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Kamala Harris’ Fundraising Machine Cranks Into High Gear

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 25, 2024

Dateline: 2024-07-25T19:59:16Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3084418702

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kamala-harris-fundraising-machine-cranks-into/docview/3084418702/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Government Has Failed America Since the Trump Shooting: [Op-Ed]

Author: Posner, Gerald; Zaid, Mark S

Publication info: Posner, Gerald; Zaid, Mark S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/government-has-failed-america-since-trump/docview/3084114500/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Those of us who have studied modern assassinations, including those of President John F. Kennedy and the civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., hoped the government had learned a lesson from its dismal public responses.
The government's repeated failure to address what it knew quickly fed suspicions that the silence itself was evidence of a conspiracy. The federal government sealed files for decades and refused to disclose information -- often to protect the reputation of agencies and their officials -- which only added fuel to conspiracy theories.
In the wake of the attempted assassination of Donald Trump, we are seeing that happen again.
Until this week there had not been a single news conference by the Secret Service or the Department of Homeland Security, no release of files that might show the preparations for securing vulnerable locations from which an assassin might strike, not even a formal news release from the officials facing criticism for unmistakable miscues caught on video by those at the rally.
Neither the public nor Congress learned much more when Kimberly Cheatle, the director of the Secret Service at the time of the shooting, appeared before a congressional committee on Monday. Ms. Cheatle acknowledged that the shooting at the Trump rally ranked as the agency's "most significant operational failure" in decades. But there was outrage from both Democrats and Republicans at her repeated refusal to answer specific questions about the security failures that contributed to it.
The silence looked particularly bad given news reports, initially denied by the government, that top Secret Service officials over a two-year span rejected repeated requests for more agents and magnetometers at Mr. Trump's large public events, as well as declined to provide extra snipers for outdoor venues.
Ms. Cheatle, who resigned on Tuesday, told Congress, "The assets that were requested for that day were given." Still, suspicions were allowed to fester that Mr. Trump's protection service was deliberately lax.
In this age of social media, it took only minutes after the assassination attempt before conspiracy speculation appeared online. America's polarized partisans embraced equally implausible plots. Mr. Trump's most rabid fans put the blame on the so-called deep state, while those who considered the former president a threat to democracy dismissed it as a fake event. Platforms such as X and Telegram were deluged with posts about the attempt being "staged" or an "inside job."
The theories were not simply the province of the fringes of the internet. Elon Musk responded to a question on X -- "How was a sniper with a full rifle kit allowed to bear crawl onto the closest roof to a presidential nominee?" -- by saying, "Extreme incompetence or it was deliberate." That post was viewed 92 million times. Representative Mike Collins, Republican of Georgia, said on the night of the shooting that President Biden "sent the orders." The far-right Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, also a Georgia Republican, posted on X, "This reeks of something a lot more sinister and bigger." A political adviser to a Democratic megadonor, the LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman, sent an email the same night to some journalists wondering if the shooting was "staged so Trump could get the photos and benefit from the backlash." The adviser, Dmitri Mehlhorn, later apologized.
The reach of these conspiracy theories is indeed vast. The Times reported that 24 hours after the assassination attempt, social media posts asserting that Mr. Biden and his allies had engineered the attack "had been viewed and shared millions of times."
No one expects instant answers; that would provoke as much skepticism as a long delay. But the public has become accustomed to officials holding regular news conferences in the aftermath of tragedies and disasters. The public will tolerate "We are not sure yet" or "that is still under investigation" if other facts are revealed as the investigators uncover them.
Conspiracy theorists fill the void or challenge established facts with their own versions of the truth. Once a falsehood gets repeated enough, it is hard to reverse it. In the early days following the Kennedy assassination, it was often said that the greatest marksmen in the world tried and failed to repeat what the government said Lee Harvey Oswald had done -- fire three shots at a moving target in a very short amount of time. But it turned out that Mr. Oswald had plenty of time to get the shots off, and what he did has been replicated numerous times. Still, I wish I had a dollar for every person who has said to me, "I heard the world's best snipers couldn't do what they said Oswald did."
We saw following the Kennedy and King murders that many people had difficulty accepting that a single troubled, otherwise inconsequential person could change history. A conspiracy theory did that very nicely. If President Kennedy was killed because a secret cabal had to stop him from withdrawing from Vietnam, or because he wanted to upend the Central Intelligence Agency, it gave some meaning to his death. It is not as if he died for no reason at the hands of a single unbalanced assassin.
It was similar with Dr. King: James Earl Ray, a 40-year-old small-time criminal, killing him on his own. Putting a large conspiracy behind Dr. King's murder seemed to give odd comfort to some people.
The House is expected on Wednesday to approve a bipartisan task force to investigate the attempted assassination, to be led by Republicans. Seven Republicans and six Democrats would sit on the panel. That is encouraging.
We think a better approach would be a Sept. 11-style commission, with broad subpoena power, free of far-right and far-left political appointees. Will its eventual report extinguish conspiracy speculation about what happened in the Trump shooting? Probably not. President Kennedy's assassination is still a hotly contested topic more than six decades later.
Without such an independent inquiry and report, however, history will be left to unqualified social media influencers and malicious actors, whether governments or individuals, who intentionally spread disinformation for their own purposes. That is a surefire recipe for ensuring the country stays divided forever about what happened.
Gerald Posner is the author of books about the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy ("Case Closed") and Martin Luther King Jr. ("Killing the Dream"). Mark Zaid is a lawyer specializing in cases involving national security who has represented Secret Service agents during the administrations of President Eisenhower to President Biden, including those in the Kennedy detail on the day President Kennedy was shot.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE OSBORNE) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Influencer marketing; Social networks; Presidents; Political appointments; Conspiracy; Shootings; Murders & murder attempts; Assassinations & assassination attempts; Federal government

Business indexing term: Subject: Influencer marketing Social networks

Location: United States--US; Georgia

People: Kennedy, John Fitzgerald (1917-1963); King, Martin Luther Jr (1929-1968); Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/23/opinion/trump-shooting-secret-service-conspiracy.html

Title: The Government Has Failed America Since the Trump Shooting:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 25, 2024

column: St Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3084114500

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/government-has-failed-america-since-trump/docview/3084114500/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

F.B.I. Searches $3.5 Million Home of Former Hochul Aide: [National Desk]

Author: Rashbaum, William K

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/f-b-i-searches-3-5-million-home-former-hochul/docview/3084114489/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The early-morning raid took place on Long Island's North Shore at the house of Ms. Hochul's former deputy chief of staff, Linda Sun.
Before dawn on Tuesday, F.B.I. agents swept into a small cul-de-sac on Long Island's North Shore to search a five-bedroom house where a former deputy chief of staff to Gov. Kathy Hochul lives with her husband.
The basis for the search at the $ 3.5 million home of Linda Sun, the former deputy chief of staff, and the crimes under investigation remain unclear. Neither Ms. Sun, 40, nor her husband, Chris Hu, 41, have been accused of wrongdoing. Neither could be reached for comment and they did not respond to voice mail and text messages.
A spokesman for the F.B.I. confirmed that agents from the bureau's New York office had "conducted court-authorized law enforcement activity" at the expansive red brick house in a gated community in Manhasset, but would not comment further. The U.S. attorney's office in Brooklyn obtained the warrant for the search, according to people with knowledge of the matter; a spokesman for that office also declined to comment.
No arrests were made at the family's home, according to a person familiar with the investigation. The property was owned by Ms. Sun and Mr. Hu until they transferred it to a trust early this year.
Ms. Sun, who earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science and government from Barnard College and a Master of Arts from Teachers College at Columbia University, has worked in state government for nearly 14 years, holding a variety of positions, according to her LinkedIn profile.
She began her state career in the legislative branch as chief of staff to an assemblywoman, Grace Meng, who is now a congresswoman, and then worked in various positions in the administrations of both Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Ms. Hochul, according to the profile.
Ms. Sun's roles included business development; Asian American affairs; and diversity, equity and inclusion. She left the executive chamber after roughly 15 months, moving on to a position in the Labor Department in November 2022. Five months later, she left the state to serve as campaign manager for Austin Cheng, a Democrat who made an unsuccessful bid for Congress on Long Island.
Avi Small, the press secretary for Ms. Hochul, declined to comment.
Mr. Hu operates a liquor store in Flushing, Queens, Leivine Wine & Spirits, and has incorporated several other businesses over the last decade, including a company he created in 2020 during the earliest days of the coronavirus pandemic called Medical Supplies USA LLC. He also created Golden Capital Group LLC in 2016 and LCA Holdings LLC in 2023, although the nature of those businesses could not be immediately determined.
It is unclear when the F.B.I. agents first arrived at the gated community where Ms. Sun and Mr. Hu live, which is called Stone Hill, but a security guard there said that agents were there twice.
Reporting was contributed by Nicholas Fandos, Jay Root, Susan C. Beachy and Wesley Parnell.
Reporting was contributed by Nicholas Fandos, Jay Root, Susan C. Beachy and Wesley Parnell.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Gated communities; Search & seizure; Raids

Location: United States--US; Long Island New York

People: Hochul, Kathleen C

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/23/nyregion/fbi-raid-linda-sun.html

Title: F.B.I. Searches $3.5 Million Home of Former Hochul Aide:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 25, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3084114489

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/f-b-i-searches-3-5-million-home-former-hochul/docview/3084114489/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Silicon Valley Investors' New City Plan Is on Hold: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Dougherty, Conor

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-investors-new-city-plan-is-on-hold/docview/3083785187/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The East Solano Plan, a proposal for a walkable urban community in a rural corner of the San Francisco Bay Area, stoked tension, fear and mistrust among some neighbors.
Silicon Valley's plans for a start-up city are on hold.
The East Solano Plan -- a proposal backed by a roster of technology billionaires to build a city of up to 400,000 people on farmland about 60 miles from San Francisco -- is being delayed at least two years to study the project's impact on the environment, the company behind the development said in a statement.
The proposed city was meant to be a walkable urban community in a rural corner of the San Francisco Bay Area, which is now home to sheep farms and windmills. Jan Sramek, a former Goldman Sachs trader who came up with the plan and is now the chief executive of the company behind it, pitched it as a way to build significantly more housing, something California badly needs, in a short amount of time.
The company's investors, a who's who of Silicon Valley, included a number of billionaires including Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, venture capitalist and Democratic donor, and Laurene Powell Jobs, the founder of the Emerson Collective.
But the proposal created tension in the area. California Forever, the company driving the development, spent years buying some $ 900 million of farmland without revealing anything about the identities of its backers or plans for a new city. As its land holdings grew and surrounded Travis Air Force Base on three sides, neighbors and members of Congress feared it could be linked to foreign spies.
The company further alienated neighbors by filing a $ 500 million antitrust lawsuit saying that a group of farmers who had refused to sell their land were colluding to raise prices. Despite being locked in an expensive legal battle, those neighbors had no idea who was behind the company until The New York Times revealed it last year, sowing fear and mistrust that only seemed to grow.
Last week, a report commissioned by Solano County estimated the full project would require tens of billions in infrastructure investment but warned that details about the development remained so vague it was hard to assess its full impact. While most large projects often go through years of study, the report noted that "this was filed with the County only a few months after the public became aware of intentions of the proponents."
The delay announced on Monday was part of a joint agreement between California Forever and Mitch Mashburn, a member of the Solano County board of Supervisors. In a statement, Mr. Mashburn said that "while the need for more affordable housing and good-paying jobs has merit, the timing has been unrealistic."
The agreement means that a ballot initiative, which the company had hoped to put before Solano County voters this year, will not appear on the November ballot as planned. California Forever said it would instead spend the rest of this year and next preparing an environmental impact report and trying to craft a development agreement with the county.
The project would still have to go before voters to win final approval.
In an interview, John Garamendi, a Democratic congressman from the area and frequent critic of the new city proposal, said, "The California Forever pipe dream is in a permanent deep freeze."
Over the past decade, California's legislature and cities have passed dozens of new laws that lower the regulatory burdens on new development in hopes of making housing cheaper and easier to build. But most of those efforts focus on adding density to existing cities and neighborhoods.
Mr. Sramek's plan was, in essence, a new twist on a planned community, but instead of cul-de-sac subdivisions, he proposed a design to evoke city neighborhoods with rowhouses, bike lanes and nearby retail where residents could walk to do their grocery shopping. In interviews, he said that while he was in favor of the state's efforts to build housing in urban cores, the plans were moving too slowly, and the state needed to reconsider its aversion to developments on the edges of cities where a lot of housing could be built at once -- projects that were maligned as sprawl.
Solano County has a longstanding "orderly growth" ordinance that prohibits large developments outside urban areas, so the company's plan couldn't go forward without voters first agreeing to amend the law.
California Forever has spent the last year trying to charm Solano County residents into supporting its plan -- erecting billboards, opening offices and holding town hall meetings where Mr. Sramek promised to create thousands of new jobs and make hundreds of millions in community investments.
But residents remained skeptical. A poll conducted by Solano Together, a coalition of opponents that is mostly a mix of agricultural and environmental organizations, showed that the measure was headed for defeat in November. In an interview Mr. Sramek said that if the election were to have gone forward, it would have been "a coin flip."
He said the company would now try to go to the voters in 2026, with the hope that support would be bolstered by an environmental report and development agreement.
"This is a better process," he said. "If this is done right, there's a good chance it will at worst keep the timeline the same."
David George, an investor at Andreessen Horowitz and one of California Forever's investors, said the environmental study would give voters more information to make a decision about the plan. "This is an audacious, complex project and the leadership team has achieved an extraordinary amount over the past nine months," he said.
Opponents seemed hopeful that the delay was the beginning of the end of the project.
In a statement, Solano Together said it was working to extend the orderly growth initiative that had so far prevented East Solano from becoming a reality. Much like their opponents, the group said it would continue to advocate jobs and affordable homes, with the caveat that they were "in our existing communities."
Erin Griffith contributed reporting.
Erin Griffith contributed reporting.
Photograph The plan for the city involved developing farmland in Solano County, about 60 miles from San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON WOJACK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); The city was meant to be a walkable community in a rural corner of the San Francisco Bay Area, which is home to farms and windmills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Agreements; Agriculture; Farms; Windmills; Environmental impact; Voters; Affordable housing; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing

Location: Silicon Valley-California; San Francisco Bay; United States--US; Solano County California; California; San Francisco California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/22/business/economy/california-forever-solano-county-city-on-hold.html

Title: Silicon Valley Investors' New City Plan Is on Hold:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3083785187

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-investors-new-city-plan-is-on-hold/docview/3083785187/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Tim es Company Jul 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Biden's Exit From Race Re-energizes Democrats in Silicon Valley: [National Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bidens-exit-race-re-energizes-democrats-silicon/docview/3083340051/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk, Marc Andreessen and others have endorsed Donald J. Trump. But President Biden's withdrawal has re-energized Democrats across the tech industry and may blunt that momentum.
In recent weeks, many Democrats in Silicon Valley had kept uncharacteristically quiet as prominent technology leaders -- including Elon Musk and the investors Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz -- endorsed Donald J. Trump for president.
Even though Democrats had long been a dominant force in Silicon Valley, some were unenthusiastic about supporting President Biden, who was unpopular in the tech industry. They wanted to see if Mr. Biden could change the narrative around his struggling campaign. And those who were vocal in their support -- such as the tech investor Reid Hoffman -- faced attacks.
But that reluctance to speak up changed when Mr. Biden announced on Sunday that he would drop out of the presidential race, paving the way for a new Democratic ticket. Across the tech industry, the floodgates immediately reopened.
"People are fired up," said Nihal Mehta, an investor at Eniac Ventures, a New York venture capital firm, pointing to an outpouring of excitement online and in group chats around the industry.
Tech executives and investors said they were invigorated by the change. "It's democracy time, people," Roy Bahat, an investor at Bloomberg Beta, posted on LinkedIn. Aaron Levie, the chief executive of Box, a cloud storage company, wrote on X that Mr. Biden had shown "amazing leadership," adding, "Now let's go!"
The energy was a far cry from the dismay felt in tech circles recently as some of the industry's most influential voices declared they were for Mr. Trump. The rejuvenation could blunt the momentum of pro-Trump conservatives in Silicon Valley and entice more wealthy tech executives to throw their support -- and money -- behind the Democratic ticket.
Just last week, the political winds in Silicon Valley appeared to be blowing right. On Tuesday, Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Horowitz, founders of the influential investment firm Andreessen Horowitz, argued in a 90-minute podcast that Mr. Trump was the best candidate for start-ups, with plans to donate millions to his campaign. Days earlier, Mr. Musk had also endorsed Mr. Trump.
They had been preceded by David Sacks and Chamath Palihapitiya, two tech investors who had hosted a $ 12 million fund-raiser for Mr. Trump in June. Doug Leone and Shaun Maguire of Sequoia Capital, a top investment firm, had also said that they would vote for Mr. Trump.
Their endorsements were the culmination of several factors. Mr. Biden has not fostered the same cozy connections with the tech industry that his Democratic predecessors enjoyed. Some of his appointees, including Lina Khan of the Federal Trade Commission, had frustrated tech leaders with persistent lawsuits against the industry. And some tech leaders worried that Mr. Biden's plans to regulate artificial intelligence and change the tax structure might hurt their businesses.
What support there was for Mr. Biden in Silicon Valley mostly came in the form of opposing Mr. Trump, rather than outright praise for the president.
At a fund-raiser that Vinod Khosla, a venture capitalist, held for Mr. Biden in May, the discussion was not about Mr. Biden's tech-related policies but instead was about Mr. Trump's values, Mr. Khosla said in an interview last month.
Mr. Hoffman, a founder of LinkedIn and a prominent Democratic donor, emphasized in essays, videos and social media posts that Mr. Trump was a danger to the rule of law and democracy. "You can't use business justification as your cloak, as your rationalization, for being supportive of Trump," he said.
Mark Suster, an investor at Upfront Ventures who considers himself a "lifelong moderate Democrat," said it was impossible to publicly support Mr. Biden after he faltered in a debate with Mr. Trump last month.
"If you ask yourself why they aren't speaking up in the last 30 days, it's because there is nothing defensible to speak up for," Mr. Suster said. "We all know our candidate is not up for another four years."
Mr. Trump's selection last Monday of J.D. Vance, a former venture capitalist, as his running mate, combined with the energy at the Republican convention, made things only worse, said Mr. Mehta of Eniac Ventures.
"Everyone who was in the Biden camp was really depressed and defeated," he said. "These events were pretty debilitating for Democrats."
Yet despite the growing sense of a MAGA takeover, not everyone in tech moved toward Mr. Trump.
"You have people with the loudest voices claiming to speak for the broader community, and the views don't match," said Katie Jacobs Stanton, founder of Moxxie Ventures, a venture capital firm. "By no means do they line up with the thousands of founders and employees and investors who live and work in Silicon Valley."
John Coogan, a start-up founder, wrote in a blog post in June that media coverage of Silicon Valley's support for Mr. Trump was "at odds with reality." Top venture capitalists had given four times more money to Democrats than Republicans in the first part of the year, he argued.
"Trump is very unpopular in Silicon Valley in general," Mr. Khosla said, adding that those who were pro-Trump were "only a small constituency."
Now liberals in tech are rejuvenated. Mr. Mehta said that some of his WhatsApp chats, particularly those that included Indian people in tech, exploded with excitement for Kamala Harris, whose mother is from India. To show support for the vice president, some implored people to make small donations, while others discussed potential fund-raisers, he said.
Mr. Levie of Box said he had spoken to a dozen other tech and business people on Sunday who were now optimistic about the election in November. He said he was hopeful that Democrats could deliver a positive message on issues that the tech industry cared about, including A.I., entrepreneurship and immigration reform for high-skilled workers.
"We have a chance to get excited and rally around someone," he said.
On Sunday, Mr. Hoffman endorsed Ms. Harris, while Mr. Khosla called for an open process at the Democratic convention.
Mr. Suster said his phone blew up with a collective message of "thank god." He estimated that three-quarters of the people he interacted with in tech were happy about Mr. Biden's withdrawal and would not support Mr. Trump.
Still, the pro-Trump camp is more vocal than before, Mr. Suster said, and even if he disagrees, he has become more open to their views.
"We all assumed for a decade or two that the entire industry was Democrats and that's clearly not true," he said.
Photograph Former President Donald Trump has been endorsed by some of tech's most influential voices, but it's Democrats who have long been a dominant force in the industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Fund raising; Political conventions; Venture capital companies; Political campaigns; Democracy; Endorsements; Investors; Political leadership; Presidential elections; Candidates

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital companies

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr; Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: Eniac Ventures; NAICS: 523910; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/22/technology/silicon-valley-trump-biden-democrats.html

Title: Biden's Exit From Race Re-energizes Democrats in Silicon Valley:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 23, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3083340051

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bidens-exit-race-re-energizes-democrats-silicon/docview/3083340051/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Olympic Committee Sues Influencers' Drink Company: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Levenson, Michael

Publication info: Levenson, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-olympic-committee-sues-influencers-drink/docview/3083340036/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The suit accuses Prime Hydration of using trademarked terms including "Olympic" and "Team USA" to promote a sports drink that features Kevin Durant.
The U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee says Coca-Cola has the exclusive right to use Olympic trademarks, including the words "Olympic" and "Team USA," on beverages in the United States.
But as the 2024 Olympic Games are about to begin, it says another company, Prime Hydration, founded by the YouTube personalities Logan Paul and KSI, has been using those terms and others to promote a sports drink, without the committee's permission.
On Friday, the committee filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado, where the committee is based, accusing Prime Hydration of "willful" and "blatant" trademark infringement.
The lawsuit seeks all of the profits that Prime derived from products that infringed on Olympic trademarks as well as "millions of dollars" in damages to be determined at trial.
The suit points in particular to a Prime Hydration drink that features Kevin Durant, the star forward for the Phoenix Suns who is trying to win his fourth gold medal this summer as a member of the U.S. Olympic basketball team.
The packaging, online ads and promotions for the drink featuring Mr. Durant use the words Olympic, Olympian, Team USA and Going for Gold, which are all trademarks owned by the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee, the lawsuit says.
On July 10, an Olympic Committee lawyer contacted Prime Hydration and asked the company to stop using those trademarks, the lawsuit says. But the company continued to ship the drink to stores and to feature the drink on its LinkedIn account after receiving that warning, the suit says.
Prime Hydration did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Monday.
The lawsuit says Coca-Cola made a "significant monetary contribution" for the exclusive right to use Olympic trademarks, and the value of that sponsorship deal, which helps to fund the U.S. Olympic team, is threatened if other companies use those trademarks without permission.
Prime Hydration was founded in 2022 by Mr. Paul, a YouTube influencer who has ventured into boxing and wrestling, and Olajide Olayinka Williams Olatunji, another YouTube personality better known as KSI. The two have gained attention for, among other things, fighting each other in boxing matches.
Last year, doctors and lawmakers criticized Prime for the high levels of caffeine in its Prime Energy drink, saying they could be harmful to children. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the majority leader, asked the Food and Drug Administration to investigate the ultra-caffeinated variety of Prime, which he said had about the same amount of caffeine as six 12-ounce cans of Coke.
Prime Energy had "so much caffeine in it that it puts Red Bull to shame," Mr. Schumer said.
Prime said in a statement last year that each can of its energy drink stated that it was not meant for anyone under the age of 18. The company added that the beverage had caffeine levels comparable to other top-selling energy drinks and that Prime was compliant with F.D.A. guidelines.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Committees; Olympic games; Energy drinks; Caffeine; Professional basketball; Trademarks; Hydration; Sports drinks; Litigation

Business indexing term: Subject: Trademarks

Location: United States--US

People: Durant, Kevin

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/22/us/logan-paul-prime-lawsuit-olympic-committee.html

Title: U.S. Olympic Committee Sues Influencers' Drink Company:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 23, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3083340036

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-olympic-committee-sues-influencers-drink/docview/3083340036/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Loud Cheers for Trump's Campaign Are Coming From Tech Titans: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren; Michael J. De La Merced; Kessler, Sarah

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren; Michael J. De La Merced; Kessler, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/loud-cheers-trumps-campaign-are-coming-tech/docview/3083048794/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk, David Sacks, Marc Andreessen and other influential figures in technology have endorsed former President Donald Trump.
How did the Democrats lose Silicon Valley? Or did they?
If you read the headlines this week about Elon Musk, David Sacks, Marc Andreessen and other influential figures in technology moving to support former President Trump's re-election, it appeared a sea change had taken place in Silicon Valley, long considered a Democrat hotbed.
The loudest donors in Silicon Valley are promoting Trump at a time when the tech world as a whole is ascending in Washington, with billionaires using their ballooning wealth and media foothold to exert influence. Their voices are made all the more prominent amid the conspicuous neutrality of Big Tech leaders like the Google C.E.O. Sundar Pichai and the Meta chief Mark Zuckerberg, who are possibly afraid of invoking Trump's ire and employee backlash.
It wasn't always this way. But big technology's relationship with government, once symbiotic, attracted new scrutiny from Silicon Valley's libertarian masses after social media companies tamped down on misinformation, drawing accusations that they were ceding to an overstepping government.
For some, the infractions were more personal. Musk was brushed off by President Biden over his anti-union stance and excluded from an electric vehicle event at the White House in 2021. Now Musk, who has voted for Democrats in the past and has said he created Tesla to help one of Biden's biggest ambitions, preventing climate change, has become among the party's biggest detractors.
Then there are issues in California, like rising taxes and a crime wave in San Francisco; the anti-woke movement; and regulatory battles over antitrust, crypto, and artificial intelligence that have high stakes in Silicon Valley.
The question now is whether Silicon Valley's Trump boosters are heralding a larger shift in the tech world, or if they're merely demonstrating that their voices are more powerful in politics than ever.
Silicon Valley's iconoclastic views run deep. Peter Thiel and David Sacks, two of Trump's biggest supporters in tech, co-authored "The Diversity Myth" in 1995, arguing against "the extreme focus on racism." At the time it was a fringe view in politics, and tech was a relatively small industry.
But the Republican Party now reflects some of the tech industry's long-held libertarian views, making fighting "woke equity" a pillar of its politics, while Democrats, including Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, have pushed for laws promoting diversity.
At the same time, tech's influence in politics has skyrocketed. While Thiel's $ 1.6 million check to Trump drew headlines in 2016, it looks like chump change compared to Musk's recently reported pledge to donate $ 45 million a month to a pro-Trump super PAC. Venture capitalists have built up huge followings on podcasts, newsletters and on X, which is owned by Musk.
Tech is tired of being cast as the villain. As founders became billionaires, the industry became, in its view, a punching bag for regulators. Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, has led a charge against cryptocurrency. Biden's top antitrust enforcers -- Lina Khan of the Federal Trade Commission and Jonathan Kanter at the Department of Justice -- have zeroed in on tech acquisitions, limiting venture capital firms' ability to sell a company.
But at the Republican National Convention this week, Wall Street, not technology, was the target of choice.
Jason Calacanis, who hosts a popular podcast with fellow Trump supporters and start-up investors Chamath Palihapitiya, Sacks and David Friedberg, wrote in a post on X during the convention: "The truth is, the left has dug into an anti-entrepreneur and anti-tech position for over a decade, while the GOP has positioned Trump 2.0 to be pro-innovation and pro-founder."
Crypto is chief on the agenda. The crypto industry has already spent millions attacking Representative Katie Porter, Democrat of California and a crypto critic, and in tight elections in Ohio and Montana. It's expected to spend millions more on the presidential race. Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz, whose venture capital firm has bet big on crypto, told employees this week the Biden administration has "basically subverted rule of law to attack crypto industry," as they disclosed plans to put their money behind Trump. (The venture capitalist Mark Cuban has speculated investors might see a further benefit in supporting Trump's likely inflationary agenda.)
"Their mortal enemy is Gary Gensler at the S.E.C.," said Boris Feldman, the head of the technology, media and telecom practice at the law firm Freshfields, referring to the chair of the securities regulator. "If you're a billionaire, what is it to you to give $ 100 million if you think that will save your business?"
They don't see risk in publicly backing Trump. While Biden has spoken harshly about "corporate greed," Trump has a history of lashing out at specific companies. Many of Trump's loudest supporters in tech, including Musk, endorsed him after he survived an assassination attempt at a campaign rally, which seemed an immediate boon for his campaign.
"If they have taken such a large, huge public stance against Biden at this point, they obviously think one of two things is true, maybe both," Julie Samuels, chief executive of TechNYC, a nonprofit industry group, told DealBook. "One, there's literally no chance he can win. Or number two, even if he wins, it can't get any worse for them than it is right now."
The bigger picture of Silicon Valley looks less red. The vast majority of tech companies' rank and file, as well as power brokers, still vote Democrat. A poll by The Information, a technology focused publication, found a majority of its readers plan to vote for Biden. Reid Hoffman, LinkedIn's co-founder, is one of Biden's most influential supporters. Mark Pincus, the former C.E.O. of Zynga, said this week he originally supported Biden in this election because he "thought that a second Trump presidency is risky." He noted, among other things, Trump "has been oddly positive about dictators like Vladimir Putin." (Pincus, who bemoaned the Democrats' progressive policies, also urged Biden to move aside for another Democratic candidate.)
Vinod Khosla, founder of Khosla Ventures who hosted a fundraiser for Biden in May, told DealBook that he thinks the perception of Silicon Valley's politics has been skewed by a handful of people whose calculus is: "'anyone supporting crypto,' 'less regulation makes me more money,' and 'Trump opinions can be bought."'
"VC's who have a large megaphone should not be confused as representing all of Silicon Valley," Khosla said. -- Lauren Hirsch
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
Elliot Investment Management reportedly takes a big stake in Starbucks. The activist investor has bought shares in the coffee chain and is in private discussions on how to raise its stock price, according to The Wall Street Journal. Starbucks is facing increasing competition, including in the crucial Chinese market, and has cut its financial outlook twice this year.
A global IT outage crippled businesses and grounded airlines. A software update by CrowdStrike, the cybersecurity company, caused computers running Microsoft Windows to crash yesterday in one of the worst tech incidents in history. The outage demonstrated the reliance on just a few companies to power global infrastructure and comes as Google is in talks to buy Wiz, a cybersecurity firm, in what would be its biggest ever acquisition.
Donald Trump accepted the Republican presidential nomination. Trump was formally nominated at the party's national convention, a week after surviving an assassination attempt. His former rivals formally endorsed him at the convention in Milwaukee and Senator JD Vance of Ohio, Trump's running mate, delivered a speech that demonstrated his commitment to a similarly nationalist approach to the economy and business.
Meta is in talks to buy a stake in the eyewear maker EssilorLuxottica. Facebook's parent company may buy up to 5 percent of the Paris-listed company behind brands like Ray-Ban and Oakley. EssilorLuxottica makes Meta's augmented reality glasses and a deal would signal the tech company's commitment to building the metaverse, its immersive digital world.
A return to form for investment banking
Deal makers have been promising for some time that their business was poised to recover. Results from Wall Street giants' most recent quarter suggests that may finally be happening.
Five of the biggest investment banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, reported $ 8.25 billion in investment banking fees for the second quarter, according to data compiled by LSEG. That's the highest level for those companies since March 2022.
Bank of America said that investment banking fees for the quarter were up 29 percent year-on-year.
Such results are a relief for banking executives, who have seen some of their core businesses -- arranging mergers and the sales of stocks and debt -- languish amid higher interest rates and market volatility.
Clients are increasingly ready to start making deals again, bank leaders told analysts this week, buoyed by falling inflation, strong corporate profits and signs that the Fed will soon start cutting interest rates. (A particular strength for banks in the quarter was debt capital markets, as companies sought to refinance.)
"Our investment banking backlog is up significantly this quarter," David Solomon, Goldman's C.E.O., said on Monday. "From what we're seeing, we are in the early innings of a capital markets and M.&A. recovery."
What is D.E.I. without the 'E'?
SHRM -- also known as the Society for Human Resource Management -- announced last week it would drop the "E" from the acronym it uses to describe its D.E.I. practices, and ever since, its chief executive's phone has been ringing nonstop. "We've heard from both sides, and I would be absolutely dishonest if I didn't say we had people who felt very passionately," said Johnny C. Taylor, leader of the trade organization for H.R. executives. A LinkedIn post announcing the change has accumulated almost 1,000 comments.
The "E" in D.E.I. stands for "equity." SHRM will now instead use the acronym "I&D," which stands for inclusion and diversity. Many pegged the change as part of a recent retreat from D.E.I. programs amid a backlash and legal threats from the anti-woke movement. But Taylor says that's not the case.
Instead, he says the word "equity" has become a distraction. "What we are hearing from people, employers and employees alike, is that the 'E,' when you go in to have a conversation, for an hour, 45 minutes, there's a debate, about legality: What does it mean? Is it fair? And it's a de-railer," he said, adding, "the work can't get done."
D.E.I. hasn't always been the standard acronym. SHRM spoke about its "diversity" programs before adding the E in the 2010s, Taylor said. Alida Miranda-Wolff, the founder and C.E.O. of a diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging consulting firm called Ethos, said many organizations added the "E" to their acronyms around this time. "Social movements were growing in 2016, 2017, 2018, and this led to a lot of employee activism saying we can't really achieve diversity and inclusion in organizations if we don't address the systemic inequities that exist in the world," she said.
"Equity" typically refers to steps employers take to level the playing field. Miranda-Wolff argues that's a vital part of making workplaces more inclusive: "Equity requires discipline practices around things like, 'am I auditing and making sure that people are not being paid differently because of who they are?"' she said. "So eliminating equity actually eliminates quite a bit of accountability."
But can changing the acronym create a more productive conversation? That's Taylor's hope. He said that D.E.I. programs haven't worked and need a rethink. "You can't just keep doing the same thing," he said.
Anne Chow, the former chief executive of AT&T Business, is the author of an upcoming book called "Lead Bigger: The Transformative Power of Inclusion." She says she chose to focus on inclusivity specifically because her definition of the term, as a leadership capability, is bigger than it is often interpreted in D.E.I., where the discussion revolves largely around issues of gender and race.
At the same time, she said the arguments swirling around "equity" aren't necessarily a good reason to avoid the "E" in D.E.I.: "With change and transformation comes, by definition, discomfort," she said.
Thanks for reading! We'll see you Monday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Photograph Elon Musk, who has voted for Democrats in the past, reportedly plans to donate around $ 45 million a month to a pro-Trump super PAC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GONZALO FUENTES/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Antitrust; Nominations; Investments; Social networks; Executives; Venture capital; Cybersecurity; Political conventions; Interest rates; Banking; Coffeehouses; Political campaigns; Election results; Presidential elections; Assassinations & assassination attempts; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Social networks Executives Venture capital Interest rates Banking Coffeehouses Equity stake

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; Ohio; California

People: Trump, Donald J; Andreessen, Marc; Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: EssilorLuxottica; NAICS: 423460, 456130; Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/20/business/dealbook/silicon-valley-trump.html

Title: Loud Cheers for Trump's Campaign Are Coming From Tech Titans:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Ti mes, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 22, 2024

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3083048794

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/loud-cheers-trumps-campaign-are-coming-tech/docview/3083048794/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Donors Who Have Soured on Biden See Limits to Their Spending Power: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/donors-who-have-soured-on-biden-see-limits-their/docview/3082051597/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: They're calling politicians. They're dangling money to members of Congress. But major Democratic donors who want President Biden to step aside are also learning the limits of their powers.
For ultrarich Democrats, this is the golden age of political scheming.
The last three weeks since President Biden wilted during the first presidential debate have uncorked a nervous energy that has stirred almost every major Democratic donor and their advisers, turning billionaires ensconced on summer vacations into crafty political animals.
They're calling every major politician they know, encouraging them to call for Mr. Biden's removal. They're dangling money to members of Congress who say the right things, and withholding money from those who do not. And even the most reclusive donors are talking to reporters, sometimes on the record, about the turmoil within the party establishment.
These are chaotic times. So many ideas are bouncing around the donor class that some card-carrying members say privately that they are having trouble keeping track of all the plots. Some of the wealthiest people in the world have been locked in a perpetual, almost academic examination of how much leverage they truly have to change Mr. Biden's mind.
Would it be best to funnel money toward a super PAC, which has raised $ 2 million so far, that plans to back vulnerable Democratic members of Congress who are calling for Mr. Biden's removal? Or maybe the savvier move would be to raise money loudly for Vice President Kamala Harris, his heir apparent, as an affirmative sign that the president need not worry about passing the reins? What about setting aside some money in an escrow account that would be spent only on a Democratic presidential campaign led by someone other than Mr. Biden?
Tom Strickler, a founder of the Hollywood talent agency WME, said he had recently met in Los Angeles with Senator Martin Heinrich, Democrat of New Mexico.
"If you don't publicly call for Biden to step aside," Mr. Strickler said he told Mr. Heinrich's team on Thursday morning, "you are not getting a dime from me."
Mr. Strickler said that he had also been planning to give the maximum legal amount in August to each of the seven most vulnerable Democratic Senate candidates, but that as of now, he would not be supporting them because they have not broken with Mr. Biden.
"It's a message that I've encouraged my friends to send as well," he said. "If you back Biden, you will lose our support. Over and out."
Or, perhaps, there is no leverage to be had at all.
The Citizens United decision by the Supreme Court in 2010 threatened to unleash torrents of cash into American politics that critics worried would hand too much influence to a small group of partisan billionaires. But ever since Donald J. Trump ran for president in 2016, major business-friendly Republican donors have learned the limits of their powers -- unable to dislodge him from the party's nomination that year, nor able to do so eight years later.
Now, Democratic megadonors are learning some of the same lessons, especially during a time when Mr. Biden has shown some ability to raise significant money from small-dollar givers.
For all their riches and ambitions, many Democratic contributors and their big-money advisers have become resigned to the notion that their influence is fairly limited, and are trying not to be naïve. A sense of powerlessness pervades.
After all, Mr. Biden is not, as one major Democratic donor put it, subject to a vote by the wealthy. And he and his team have bristled against wealthy "elites" who are trying to force him out of a Democratic nomination that he won democratically, heightening concerns from major donors who are already nervous about their efforts backfiring if they are seen as bullies.
Mr. Biden is likely to be influenced first and foremost by his family, including Jill Biden, the first lady, and after that by a series of aides who have worked for him for decades. Major donors have debated among themselves about who precisely in his inner circle could be reached -- and which donors have the best access to those people. But privately, few Democratic donors are bullish about their own powers, especially given Mr. Biden's increasingly anti-elite language.
Joe Ravitch, a top Hollywood banker and a longtime Democratic fund-raiser, said that even before the debate, he had conditioned his giving on pushing for a change at the top of the ticket. But he sounded dour about whether his advocacy would accomplish much.
"I can't figure out who -- if anyone -- has influence over this, but donors certainly don't, regardless of what we do," Mr. Ravitch said. "And to speak out publicly against the president only helps undermine him. It's a Catch-22."
Mr. Biden has had relatively few defenders among the country's biggest donors. Democratic insiders say that most major donors want him to step aside.
But there are a few exceptions. Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn, has been the most voluble supporter of staying the course. Alex Soros, the head of one of the Democratic Party's most generous families, has urged the party not to abandon Mr. Biden. And Amy Goldman Fowler, a low-profile but major donor who gives millions of dollars a year to the Democratic Party, came out with a rare on-the-record statement praising the president.
Despite all of that agitation, plenty of Democratic donors are plainly nervous to cross Mr. Biden publicly, even now, with some worried about weakening him in the general election if he remains the nominee.
Some mega-contributors are staying as quiet as possible. Henry Laufer, one of the party's biggest contributors, told The New York Times a week after the debate that "I have no comments." A spokeswoman for another Democratic billionaire, Marilyn Simons, also one of the party's top donors, shared that Ms. Simons had "no comments to offer."
Haim Saban, the Hollywood magnate who has spent tens of millions of dollars for the Democratic Party since Citizens United, was asked for his view of the situation, and spoke for many of his peers.
"Silence is golden," he replied simply.
Kate Kelly contributed reporting.
Kate Kelly contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Nominations; Presidential elections; Debates; Political parties

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Citizens United; NAICS: 813319

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/17/us/politics/biden-democratic-donors-trump.html

Title: Donors Who Have Soured on Biden See Limits to Their Spending Power:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 18, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3082051597

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/donors-who-have-soured-on-biden-see-limits-their/docview/3082051597/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Endorsing Trump, Musk Is Charting New Waters: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Conger, Kate; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Conger, Kate; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/endorsing-trump-musk-is-charting-new-waters/docview/3081512318/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The owner of X broke with tradition at other social media companies to support the former president, as he drives political conversation on his site.
Roughly 30 minutes after former President Donald J. Trump was shot at a rally in Pennsylvania on Saturday, Elon Musk backed his bid for the White House.
"I fully endorse President Trump and hope for his rapid recovery," Mr. Musk wrote on X, the social media platform he owns, sharing a video of Mr. Trump raising his fist.
In more than 100 posts after the shooting, Mr. Musk further stepped up his political speech. And on Monday, after Mr. Trump announced that Senator J.D. Vance of Ohio would be his Republican running mate, Mr. Musk posted congratulations and said it was an "excellent decision by @realDonaldTrump."
With those moves, Mr. Musk, 53, entered uncharted territory. He broke with tradition set by the leaders of other major social media firms, none of whom have endorsed a presidential candidate. By using X as a megaphone for his politics -- posting to his nearly 190 million followers -- Mr. Musk also erased any air of neutrality for the platform.
Now, as the presidential election gets closer, Mr. Musk's full-throated support for the Republican candidates raises questions about how their opponents can expect to be treated on this site.
"He can fashion the platform in his image," said Gita Johar, a professor at Columbia Business School who studies consumer behavior. "He's got a huge following and makes no bones on where he stands on issues and politics."
He has also turned the notion that the tech industry supports Democratic candidates on its head. For all the complaints that social media platforms have censored Mr. Trump and other Republicans in recent years, no senior executive at one of the companies has openly expressed a preference for a Democratic candidate.
Mark Zuckerberg, Meta's founder, rarely posts about politics, and Jack Dorsey, the former Twitter chief, became more outspoken on the topic only after he stepped down three years ago. Satya Nadella, Microsoft's chief, and Sundar Pichai, Google's chief, have also kept quiet about their political views on the companies' respective social platforms, LinkedIn and YouTube.
Beyond the endorsement, a new super PAC designed to help Mr. Trump could draw support from Mr. Musk, The New York Times reported Monday. The founding donors of the group, America PAC, include several wealthy tech entrepreneurs from Mr. Musk's social circle.
Mr. Musk, X and the Trump campaign did not respond to requests for comment for this article.
"Arrogant billionaires only out for themselves are not what America wants or what America needs," James Singer, a Biden campaign spokesman, said in a statement. "Elon knows Trump is a sucker who will sell America out."
While many newspapers have long endorsed political candidates, social media platforms' vast scale is akin to the early days of television, when viewers were glued to the nightly news broadcasts of a few networks. And the platforms' impact on consumers -- particularly young people -- has grown considerably in recent years as the traditional news industry has shrunk.
When it comes to Mr. Musk and X, "it's pretty clear what his political views are, and now people can make a choice with more transparency and information on where they want to spend their time online," said Sarah Kreps, director of the Tech Policy Institute at Cornell University.
For years, Mr. Musk held back on sharing his political beliefs in large part because of his controlling interest in SpaceX, according to three former company executives. The rocket company was in fierce competition with rivals to win government space contracts.
In November 2016, days before the presidential election, Gwynne Shotwell, SpaceX's president and chief operating officer, pushed Mr. Musk to do an interview with CNBC, the three people said. During the interview, he gave a lukewarm endorsement of Hillary Clinton, saying he felt Mr. Trump was "not the right guy."
"He doesn't seem to have the sort of character that reflects well on the United States," Mr. Musk said. Ms. Clinton's economic and environmental politics were "the right ones."
SpaceX has received $ 14.7 billion in federal launch contracts over the last decade, and the government is now reliant on the company, relieving much of the political pressure, the people said.
In 2020, Mr. Musk said he had voted for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Two years later, he posted that people should vote Republican in the midterm elections. And over the past few months, Mr. Musk has steadily ramped up his criticism of Mr. Biden in posts on X, attacking the president for everything from his age to his immigration and health policies.
At the same time, Mr. Musk was courting Mr. Trump to return to X. The site barred Mr. Trump after the riot at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. Mr. Musk restored the former president's account shortly after buying the site in late 2022. Since then, however, Mr. Trump has posted only once.
Since the assassination attempt, X has swirled with conspiracy theories and disinformation. On Saturday, the word "staged" trended on X, as users debated whether the shooting had been faked by the deep state or anyone else, including Mr. Trump.
Mr. Musk, the most followed person on the site, has accused rival tech executives and the media of using inflammatory language that contributed to the attack. He said the Secret Service had shown "extreme incompetence" or, in an accusation for which there is no evidence, let the attack happen deliberately.
He replied to and amplified a post that Kimberly Cheatle, the director of the Secret Service, had been improperly focused on "diversity hires." Right-wing accounts have been pushing the theory that diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts have weakened the agency protecting current and former presidents, and that women were not capable of protecting Mr. Trump.
Mr. Musk said Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, whose department oversees the Secret Service, "ought to be in jail."
X will take action against posts that spread misinformation or praise the attack, according to an internal email that was sent on Sunday and obtained by The Times.
"At moments like this, the world turns to X and we have a responsibility to protect the conversation happening on our platform," wrote Linda Yaccarino, the company's chief executive.
Mr. Musk posted on Sunday that X was the place to find the truth, calling legacy media "a pure propaganda machine." On Monday, he acknowledged the platform's spread of incorrect information as he lashed out at media outlets including The Times and The Wall Street Journal.
"When something is wrong on X, it is corrected very fast, but it stays wrong for hours to days on legacy media," he wrote.
Aric Toler contributed reporting.
Aric Toler contributed reporting.
Photograph Elon Musk broke with leaders of other top social media firms, none of whom have endorsed a presidential candidate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD BORD/WIREIMAGE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Candidates; Endorsements; Politics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/16/technology/elon-musk-trump.html

Title: In Endorsing Trump, Musk Is Charting New Waters:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 17, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3081512318

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/endorsing-trump-musk-is-charting-new-waters/docview/3081512318/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

F.B.I. Finding Few Red Flags On the Shooter: [National Desk]

Author: Robertson, Campbell; Healy, Jack; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Thrush, Glenn

Publication info: Robertson, Campbell; Healy, Jack; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Thrush, Glenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/f-b-i-finding-few-red-flags-on-shooter/docview/3080030817/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Authorities identified the gunman as a 20-year-old man from Bethel Park, Pa., a town about an hour's drive from the site of the shooting. He was interested in chess and coding, and had recently received an associate's degree in engineering science. High school classmates remembered him as an intelligent student who had few friends, but who never exhibited any glaring red flags. The nursing home where he had a job helping with meals said his work gave its staff no reason for "concern."
And in an era when other people his age put troves of personal information online, Thomas Matthew Crooks, 20, left few clues about who he was, what he believed, or why he decided to drive to a Trump rally in western Pennsylvania on Saturday and try to assassinate the former president.
On Sunday, federal investigators said a gunman they identified as Mr. Crooks had used an AR-15 style rifle purchased by his father to open fire from a rooftop outside the rally where the former president, Donald J. Trump, was speaking. In a series of new details, F.B.I. officials said they were investigating the incident as a possible case of domestic terrorism, and that the gunman had left behind explosives materials in the vehicle he drove to the event.
But many other details of Mr. Crooks's life and motives of were still unclear. Federal authorities said he had no apparent history of mental health issues or previous threats, and had not been on the radar of federal law enforcement.
Investigators were scouring his online presence and working to gain access to his phone, but so far had not found indications of strongly held political beliefs. In fact, the clues he left behind were confusing: He was a registered Republican but had also donated to a progressive cause in 2021; his parents were registered as a Democrat and Libertarian.
Mr. Crooks was shot and killed by Secret Service agents moments after he began firing, killing a spectator, seriously wounding two others and leaving Mr. Trump with an injury to his ear.
Kevin P. Rojek, the F.B.I. official in Pittsburgh who is leading the investigation, said Mr. Crooks is believed to have acted alone and that there were no additional public safety concerns.
Attorney General Merrick Garland said that the shooting was "an attack on our democracy" and that federal authorities would use every available resource to investigate the gunman.
Mr. Crooks grew up in the relatively affluent suburb of Bethel Park in the South Hills region of Pittsburgh, about an hour's drive from the site of the rally.
His parents are both licensed counselors, according to Pennsylvania records. His father worked at a local behavioral health provider, according to his LinkedIn profile.
The neighborhood where the family lives is "pretty firmly middle class, maybe upper-middle class," Dan Grzybek, who represents the area on the county council, said in an interview on Sunday.
Mr. Grzybek briefly met the gunman's parents last year when he was canvassing for his run. He did not recall the exact conversation, but he remembered they seemed pleasant and were open to hear his platform.
He said it was not unusual to have families in which different members had different political beliefs.
"You've got a large spattering of different backgrounds and ideals, and definitely have a lot of mixed households in Bethel Park," he said.
Just two months ago, Mr. Crooks graduated from the Community College of Allegheny County with an associate degree in engineering science, a school official said.
Mr. Crooks had been working as a dietary aide at Bethel Park Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation Center. Marcie Grimm, the facility's administrator, said the organization was shocked to learn of his involvement in the shooting, saying that he had "performed his job without concern and his background check was clean." She declined to discuss further specifics of his employment, saying that center officials were cooperating with law enforcement investigators.
According to a federal law enforcement official, dozens of F.B.I. agents, analysts, evidence technicians from multiple divisions have gathered to work the case. The F.B.I. was trying to break into the gunman's cellphone with court approval to learn more about his plans and motive. President Biden said on Sunday that officials had not identified a motive.
The F.B.I. has not found a manifesto, and Mr. Crooks had never been under F.B.I. investigation. The official confirmed that he did not have an unusual online history for a 20-year-old man. He liked to play chess, video games and was learning how to code, according to a review of his online activities.
He did not appear to have a public profile on major social media platforms including Facebook and Instagram. The messaging platform Discord said it had found an account apparently linked to the gunman, but the company said that "it was rarely utilized and we have found no evidence that it was used to plan this incident or discuss his political views."
Two former classmates who attended Bethel Park High School with the gunman said they had not noticed any obvious warning signs.
One of the classmates, Zach Bradford, said he had taken American history and government classes with him, that Mr. Crooks appeared to be "incredibly intelligent" and that his views in high school seemed "slightly right leaning." Mr. Bradford said he remembered a couple of instances in which classmates gave Mr. Crooks a hard time, but he was shocked when he heard that Mr. Crooks had been identified as the shooter.
"I honestly would've never expected this," he said.
The Bethel Park School District confirmed that Mr. Crooks graduated from Bethel Park High School in 2022 and said it was cooperating with law enforcement, but it did not provide any additional details about the gunman's time as a student.
He was one of 20 students awarded a $ 500 prize for math and science that year, according to local news reports, and in April 2022 appeared in a video on the school's Facebook page, perched over a laptop as he explained coding to another student.
An AR-15-type semiautomatic rifle was found next to Mr. Crooks's body. Investigators said on Sunday that while the weapon had been purchased by the gunman's father, they did not know how the gunman took possession of it or whether he had used it without his father's knowledge. Mr. Rojek of the F.B.I. said the gunman's family was cooperating with the investigation.
Law enforcement officials found materials for two explosive devices in Mr. Crooks's car and believe they have may have found a third at his residence, according to a person with knowledge of the investigation.
On Sunday, a clue emerged as to how Mr. Crooks may have trained in the use of firearms. The Clairton Sportsmen's Club, a wooded facility south of Pittsburgh, that features a 200-yard-rifle range, confirmed that Mr. Crooks had been a member.
"The Club is unable to make any additional commentary in relation to this matter in light of pending law enforcement investigations," the club said in a statement released by its legal counsel, Robert Bootay, expressing sympathy for the family of Corey Comperatore, a spectator who was killed. "Obviously, the Club fully admonishes the senseless act of violence that occurred yesterday. The Club also offers its sincerest condolences to the Comperatore family and extends prayers to all of those injured including the former President."
Former F.B.I. officials said the bureau's behavioral analysis unit would try to build out a profile of the gunman to understand his motivations. The F.B.I., which is running the investigation, will cast a wide net, interviewing friends and family members and searching for clues he might have left online or in a journal.
The gunman did not have a criminal history reflected in Pennsylvania's public court records. A voter registration record listed Mr. Crooks as a registered Republican, though federal campaign finance records show he donated $ 15 to the Progressive Turnout Project, a liberal voter turnout group, through the Democratic donation platform ActBlue in January 2021.
Law enforcement officers closed down all roads leading toward the home of the suspect's family in Bethel Park. Numerous relatives did not respond to messages seeking comment.
Mr. Grzybek, who lives about a half-mile down the same street as the gunman's family, said the area was in shock.
"Most people just can't believe that this has happened in our neighborhood," he said. "I typically walk my dogs every morning, and the number of people that I've seen walking through our street, just driving down and just stopping to take video and pictures, I think is pretty remarkable."
Mike Baker, Bianca Pallaro, Adam Goldman, Katie Benner, Brian Conway and Matthew Ericson contributed reporting. Jack Begg, Julie Tate and Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Mike Baker, Bianca Pallaro, Adam Goldman, Katie Benner, Brian Conway and Matthew Ericson contributed reporting. Jack Begg, Julie Tate and Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Officers blocked off roads in Bethel Park, Pa., around the home of the suspected shooter of the former president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA DROKE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Students; Law enforcement; Social networks; Families & family life; Presidents; Middle class; Mental health; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Secondary schools; Firearms; Voter behavior; Assassinations & assassination attempts

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Pittsburgh Pennsylvania; United States--US; Pennsylvania

People: Trump, Donald J; Crooks, Thomas Matthew

Company / organization: Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/14/us/politics/trump-gunman-thomas-crooks.html

Title: F.B.I. Finding Few Red Flags On the Shooter:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 15, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3080030817

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/f-b-i-finding-few-red-flags-on-shooter/docview/3080030817/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

India's New Gilded Age on Display at a Wedding: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Das, Anupreeta

Publication info: Das, Anupreeta. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/indias-new-gilded-age-on-display-at-wedding/docview/3080030810/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Many Indians cheer the rise of moguls like Mukesh Ambani, whose son's wedding has become a global spectacle. To them, India's poverty is predictable, but such opulence is not.
The younger son of Mukesh Ambani, India's richest man, is set to wed his fiancée in Mumbai on Friday, the finale of a monthslong extravaganza that signaled the arrival of the unapologetic Indian billionaire on the global stage -- and introduced the world to the country's Gilded Age.
For much of the year, the festivities surrounding the nuptials of Anant Ambani and Radhika Merchant, the daughter of a fellow business tycoon, have grabbed eyeballs for their lavish displays of wealth. Millions have been spent on diamonds and emeralds the size of credit cards, on haute couture saris, on wedding invitations made of silver and gold.
Billionaire businessmen, Bollywood stars, models and politicians were among the more than 1,200 guests at a pre-wedding bash in March. Bill Gates stopped by. Rihanna performed. In May, the bride and groom-to-be threw a four-day party on a luxury cruise ship in the Mediterranean; Ms. Merchant told Vogue India they couldn't find a land venue big enough to host all their guests.
Jay Gatsby would have been awed.
The spectacle has served as an invitation to peek inside India's uppermost echelons, where a few individuals and families have amassed astounding fortunes in recent years. Buoyed by booming growth and a cheerleading government, the number and wealth of Indian billionaires has soared. They are overlords of the Indian economy, running the phone networks that connect millions of people, the hospitals that treat them, the supermarkets where they shop and the high-rises in which many live.
A lot of money, in the hands of the few.
In 2000, India had nine billionaires, according to Oxfam. Now, India has 200 billionaires, who collectively hold around $ 1 trillion in wealth, according to Forbes -- nearly a quarter of the country's 2023 gross domestic product.
Their dizzying rise is stark in a land where many live below or just around the poverty line, mirroring the extreme inequality of America's Gilded Age, when robber barons flaunted their jewels amid extreme destitution.
Kavil Ramachandran, a professor of entrepreneurship at the Indian School of Business, said there were more billionaires with fatter wallets because India has sustained a high growth rate for more than two decades. That's created a deep domestic market for goods and services, and pushed Indian companies to pursue new businesses, pairing opportunity with ambition.
"It's a consequence of rapid growth and entrepreneurialism," Mr. Ramachandran said.
In 2002, Radhakishan Damani spotted the opportunity for an Indian supermarket and launched his first store in Powai, a suburb of Mumbai. More than two decades later, his company Avenue Supermarts runs one of the country's most popular supermarket chains, DMart. Mr. Damani, who has a net worth of $ 17 billion, is sometimes called India's "retail king."
A recent study about wealth and inequality in India subtitled "The Rise of the Billionaire Raj" found that the total wealth of billionaires has steadily increased from under 5 percent of national income in the 1990s to more than a fifth in 2022.
"All of this suggests that at least the very rich seem to be doing very well in recent years," the authors wrote.
India's opening set off breakneck growth.
India has come a long way from its socialist origins. Until 1990, the country operated under strict government supervision and protectionist policies. Companies could only run after procuring multiple permits and licenses from the government, leading to the name "License Raj" -- a play on the term British Raj, which referred to colonial rule.
Once India opened up its economy after a series of reforms, some domestic companies embraced the logic of free markets while remaining family-run and tightly controlled, diversifying into new businesses.
In the 2000s, India's software and services boom -- for a time, the country was nicknamed the world's "back office" -- created a slew of new billionaires. Azim Premji successfully transformed Wipro from a hydrogenated cooking fat company into an IT giant, becoming one of India's first tech billionaires. Fellow tech billionaire Nandan Nilekani co-founded Infosys and helped create Aadhar, a unique identification system for Indian citizens that is somewhat similar to a Social Security card.
Gautam Adani, whose conglomerate the Adani Group is India's biggest ports operator, has ridden the country's shipping, infrastructure and energy boom to build a net worth of more than $ 80 billion.
Mr. Adani's rise has matched that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with whom he shares close ties and whose ambitions for India have unleashed a construction frenzy. Everywhere, there are new bridges, highways, tunnels and high-speed rail tracks -- and Mr. Adani's company is at the center of many of them.
The Ambanis are the first family of Indian capitalism.
Mr. Ambani, whose $ 115 billion fortune also makes him Asia's richest man, has long sat atop India's explosive growth in wealth. Reliance Industries, the giant conglomerate founded by his father that is the source of much of his family's fortune, has sometimes served as a proxy for India's economic rise.
Its businesses include one of the world's largest oil refineries, India's biggest mobile phone network, television and entertainment ventures and a popular chain of grocery stores.
Many Indians see in Mr. Ambani's staggering rise in stature and wealth a version of the India they want: a country that doesn't make a play for attention but demands it. Some even feel pride that his son's wedding has attracted such global attention. To them, India's poverty is a predictable fact, such opulence is not.
"Based on the level of the Ambanis' wealth, the wedding is perfect," said Mani Mohan Parmar, a 64-year-old resident from Mumbai.
"Even the common man here in India spends more than his capacity on a wedding," Ms. Parmar said. "So it's nothing too much if we talk about Ambani. He has so much money due to God's grace, so why shouldn't he spend it by his choice?"
The Ambani family's wealth and influence are so unquestioned that even the use of public resources to aid his private festivities can be a source of pride. In March, the pre-wedding function they hosted in Jamnagar, a town in the western state of Gujarat where Reliance's oil refinery is based, threatened to overwhelm the town's small domestic airport.
With hundreds of private jets carrying guests hovering in the air, India's top civil aviation body and its air force stepped in to help Dhananjay Singh, the airport's director, manage the air traffic.
"Although it was a demanding period with little sleep, the effort was well worth it," Mr. Singh wrote on his LinkedIn profile.
Some question the showy displays of wealth.
Rashmi Venkatesan, who teaches human rights law and popular culture at the National Law School of India University, found the "consciously explicit public nature" of the Ambani wedding peculiar.
To Ms. Venkatesan, the celebration was about more than the wealthy getting wealthier; she was bothered by what she called the "valorization" of this kind of wealth.
It's not just the mind-boggling rise of billionaire wealth that is new, but also the way that wealth has created a new kind of royalty in a country well acquainted with maharajahs.
Like yesteryear's royal families, today's billionaires are increasingly keeping their wealth within their class -- either through dynastic succession or by marriage. Each of Mr. Ambani's three children are heading up three different lines of the Reliance business.
In 2018, Mr. Ambani's daughter Isha married Anand Piramal, the son of the billionaire Ajay Piramal, who runs one of India's pharmaceutical giants. On Friday, his son Anant is marrying Radhika, the 29-year-old daughter of Viren and Shaila Merchant, the multimillionaire founders of a health care company on whose board she sits.
Sadiba Hasan contributed reporting from Mumbai.
Sadiba Hasan contributed reporting from Mumbai.
Photograph Anant Ambani, son of the Indian businessman Mukesh Ambani, and his fiancée, Radhika Merchant, earlier this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHISH VAISHNAV/SOPA IMAGES/LIGHTROCKET VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A8.

Subject: Weddings; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Economic growth; Airports; Wealth

Business indexing term: Subject: Gross Domestic Product--GDP Economic growth Airports Wealth

Location: India; Mumbai India

People: Ambani, Mukesh D

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/12/world/asia/india-ambani-wedding-billionaire.html

Title: India's New Gilded Age on Display at a Wedding:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 15, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3080030810

Document URL: htt ps://www.proquest.com/newspapers/indias-new-gilded-age-on-display-at-wedding/docview/3080030810/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

FBI Finds Few Red Flags on a Would-Be Assassin

Author: Robertson, Campbell; Healy, Jack; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Thrush, Glenn

Publication info: Robertson, Campbell; Healy, Jack; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Thrush, Glenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fbi-finds-few-red-flags-on-would-be-assassin/docview/3080007153/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
He was interested in chess and coding, and had recently received an associate degree in engineering science. High school classmates remembered him as an intelligent student who had few friends, but who never exhibited any glaring red flags. The nursing home where he had a job helping with meals said his work gave its staff no reason for “concern.”
And in an era when other people his age put troves of personal information online, Thomas Matthew Crooks, 20, left few clues about who he was, what he believed, or why he decided to drive to a Trump rally in western Pennsylvania on Saturday and try to assassinate the former president.
On Sunday, federal investigators said a shooter they identified as Crooks had used an AR-15 style rifle purchased by his father to open fire from a rooftop outside the rally where the former president, Donald Trump, was speaking. In a series of new details, FBI officials said they were investigating the incident as a possible case of domestic terrorism, and that the gunman had left behind explosive materials in the vehicle he drove to the event.
But many other details of Crooks’ life and motives of were still unclear. Federal authorities said he had no apparent history of mental health issues or previous threats, and had not been on the radar of federal law enforcement.
Investigators were scouring his online presence and working to gain access to his phone, but so far had not found indications of strongly held political beliefs. In fact, the clues he left behind were confusing: He was a registered Republican but had also donated to a progressive cause in 2021; his parents were registered as a Democrat and Libertarian.
Crooks was shot and killed by Secret Service agents moments after he began firing, killing a spectator, seriously wounding two others and leaving Trump with an injury to his ear.
Kevin P. Rojek, the FBI official in Pittsburgh who is leading the investigation, said Crooks is believed to have acted alone and that there were no additional public safety concerns.
Attorney General Merrick Garland said that the shooting was “an attack on our democracy” and that federal authorities would use every available resource to investigate the shooting.
Crooks grew up in the relatively affluent suburb of Bethel Park in the South Hills region of Pittsburgh, about an hour’s drive from the site of the rally.
His parents are both licensed counselors, according to Pennsylvania records. His father worked at a local behavioral health provider, according to his LinkedIn profile.
The neighborhood where the family lives is “pretty firmly middle class, maybe upper-middle class,” Dan Grzybek, who represents the area on the county council, said in an interview Sunday.
Grzybek briefly met the gunman’s parents last year when he was canvassing for his run. He did not recall the exact conversation, but he remembered they seemed pleasant and were open to hear his platform.
He said it was not unusual to have families in which different members had different political beliefs.
“You’ve got a large spattering of different backgrounds and ideals, and definitely have a lot of mixed households in Bethel Park,” he said.
Just two months ago, Crooks graduated from the Community College of Allegheny County with an associate degree in engineering science, a school official said.
Crooks had been working as a dietary aide at Bethel Park Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation Center. Marcie Grimm, the facility’s administrator, said the organization was shocked to learn of his involvement in the shooting, saying that he had “performed his job without concern and his background check was clean.” She declined to discuss further specifics of his employment, saying that center officials were cooperating with law enforcement investigators.
According to a federal law enforcement official, dozens of FBI agents, analysts, evidence technicians from multiple divisions have gathered to work the case. The FBI was trying to break into the gunman’s cellphone with court approval to learn more about his plans and motive. President Joe Biden said Sunday that officials had not identified a motive.
The FBI has not found a manifesto, and Crooks had never been under FBI investigation. The official confirmed that he did not have an unusual online history for a 20-year-old man. He liked to play chess, video games and was learning how to code, according to a review of his online activities.
He did not appear to have a public profile on major social media platforms including Facebook and Instagram. The messaging platform Discord said it had found an account apparently linked to the gunman, but the company said that “it was rarely utilized and we have found no evidence that it was used to plan this incident or discuss his political views.”
Two former classmates who attended Bethel Park High School with the gunman said they had not noticed any obvious warning signs.
One of the classmates, Zach Bradford, said he had taken American history and government classes with him, that Crooks appeared to be “incredibly intelligent” and that his views in high school seemed “slightly right leaning.” Bradford said he remembered a couple of instances in which classmates gave Crooks a hard time, but he was shocked when he heard that Crooks had been identified as the shooter.
“I honestly would’ve never expected this,” he said.
The Bethel Park School District confirmed that Crooks graduated from Bethel Park High School in 2022 and said it was cooperating with law enforcement, but it did not provide any additional details about the gunman’s time as a student.
He was one of 20 students awarded a $500 prize for math and science that year, according to local news reports, and in April 2022 appeared in a video on the school’s Facebook page, perched over a laptop as he explained coding to another student.
An AR-15-type semiautomatic rifle was found next to Crooks’ body. Investigators said Sunday that while the weapon had been purchased by the gunman’s father, they did not know how the gunman took possession of it or whether he had used it without his father’s knowledge. Rojek of the FBI said the gunman’s family was cooperating with the investigation.
Law enforcement officials found materials for two explosive devices in Crooks’ car and believe they have may have found a third at his residence, according to a person with knowledge of the investigation.
On Sunday, a clue emerged as to how Crooks may have trained in the use of firearms. The Clairton Sportsmen’s Club, a wooded facility south of Pittsburgh, that features a 200-yard-rifle range, confirmed that Crooks had been a member.
“The Club is unable to make any additional commentary in relation to this matter in light of pending law enforcement investigations,” the club said in a statement released by its legal counsel, Robert Bootay, expressing sympathy for the family of Corey Comperatore, a spectator who was killed. “Obviously, the Club fully admonishes the senseless act of violence that occurred yesterday. The Club also offers its sincerest condolences to the Comperatore family and extends prayers to all of those injured including the former President.”
Former FBI officials said the bureau’s behavioral analysis unit would try to build out a profile of the gunman to understand his motivations. The FBI, which is running the investigation, will cast a wide net, interviewing friends and family members and searching for clues he might have left online or in a journal.
The gunman did not have a criminal history reflected in Pennsylvania’s public court records. A voter registration record listed Crooks as a registered Republican, though federal campaign finance records show he donated $15 to the Progressive Turnout Project, a liberal voter turnout group, through the Democratic donation platform ActBlue in January 2021.
Law enforcement officers closed down all roads leading toward the home of the suspect’s family in Bethel Park. Numerous relatives did not respond to messages seeking comment.
Grzybek, who lives about a half-mile down the same street as the gunman’s family, said the area was in shock.
“Most people just can’t believe that this has happened in our neighborhood,” he said. “I typically walk my dogs every morning, and the number of people that I’ve seen walking through our street, just driving down and just stopping to take video and pictures, I think is pretty remarkable.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Students; Law enforcement; Social networks; Families & family life; Political campaigns; Presidents; Middle class; Mental health; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Secondary schools; Firearms; Voter behavior

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Pittsburgh Pennsylvania; New York; United States--US; Pennsylvania

People: Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; United States; Attacks On Police; Healy, Jack; E Learning; Pennsylvania; Computers And The Internet; Democratic Party; Education (K 12); Computer And Video Games; Secret Service; Trump, Donald J; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Campaign Finance; Actblue; Pittsburgh, Pa, Shooting (2018); Robertson, Campbell; Philanthropy; Voting Rights, Registration And Requirements; Presidential Election Of 2024; Suburbs; Therapy And Rehabilitation; Crooks, Thomas Matthew (2003 24); Assassinations And Attempted Assassinations; Pittsburgh (Pa); Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: FBI Finds Few Red Flags on a Would-Be Assassin

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 15, 2024

Dateline: 2024-07-15T02:42:13Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3080007153

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fbi-finds-few-red-flags-on-would-be-assassin/docview/3080007153/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Parkinson's Expert Visited White House 8 Times in 8 Months, but Why Is Unclear: [National Desk]

Author: Baumgaertner, Emily; Baker, Peter

Publication info: Baumgaertner, Emily; Baker, Peter. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/parkinsons-expert-visited-white-house-8-times/docview/3076848246/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The White House said President Biden had met with a neurologist only three times in more than three years in office, and implied that the doctor's visits were related to treating other people.
An expert on Parkinson's disease from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center visited the White House eight times in eight months from last summer through this spring, including at least once for a meeting with President Biden's physician, according to official visitor logs.
The expert, Dr. Kevin Cannard, is a neurologist who specializes in movement disorders and recently published a paper on Parkinson's. The logs, released by the White House, document visits from July 2023 through March of this year. More recent visits, if there have been any, would not be released until later under the White House's voluntary disclosure policy.
It was unclear whether Dr. Cannard was at the White House to consult specifically about the president or was there for unrelated meetings. Dr. Cannard's LinkedIn page describes him as "supporting the White House Medical Unit" for more than 12 years. His biography on Doximity, a website for health professionals, lists him as a "neurology consultant to the White House Medical Unit and the physician to the president" from 2012 to 2022, which would include the administrations of Presidents Barack Obama and Donald J. Trump.
Records from the Obama administration, when Mr. Biden was vice president, show that Dr. Cannard made at least 10 visits in 2012 plus a family tour; four in 2013; one in 2014; four in 2015; and eight in 2016. Mr. Trump rescinded Mr. Obama's voluntary White House visitors disclosure policy, so records are not available for his four years in office.
Dr. Cannard did not respond to repeated requests for comment. In a statement released at 9:40 p.m. on Monday, Dr. Kevin O'Connor, the White House physician, confirmed that Dr. Cannard had seen Mr. Biden three times during the three and a half years of his presidency, but did not directly say whether any of his other visits were related to consulting on the president's health.
Instead, Dr. O'Connor implied that most of Dr. Cannard's visits were related to treating other people who work at the White House. "Prior to the pandemic, and following its end, he has held regular neurology clinics at the White House Medical Clinic in support of the thousands of active-duty members assigned in support of White House operations," Dr. O'Connor wrote.
Confirming what a White House spokesman said earlier in the day, Dr. O'Connor said that Mr. Biden had seen Dr. Cannard each year as part of his overall annual physical checkup and that the latest examination had found no sign of Parkinson's. "President Biden has not seen a neurologist outside of his annual physical," Dr. O'Connor wrote.
Dr. Cannard met on Jan. 17 with Dr. O'Connor as well as Dr. John Atwood, a cardiologist at Walter Reed, and another person in the early evening in the White House residence clinic, the logs showed. That meeting came a month before Mr. Biden underwent his most recent annual physical checkup at Walter Reed on Feb. 28.
In a six-page letter released after that checkup, Dr. O'Connor said the president's medical team had conducted "an extremely detailed neurologic exam" that had yielded "no findings which would be consistent with" Parkinson's, stroke or other central neurological disorders. Dr. O'Connor did not say whether the examination contained common tests for assessing cognitive decline or detecting signs of dementia that are often recommended for older adults.
The White House has said in recent days that there has been no reason to conduct further examination since February. Questions about Mr. Biden's health, and specifically about Parkinson's, have proliferated since his disastrous debate performance against Mr. Trump on June 27. In interviews with ABC News on Friday and MSNBC on Monday, Mr. Biden said he had the equivalent of a neurological exam every day because of the pressure of presidential duties.
The visitor logs, which have also been reported by other news organizations, including The New York Post and The Guardian, indicated that Dr. Cannard's first recorded visit to the White House during the Biden administration was on Nov. 15, 2022. The records indicate that he was visiting Joshua Simmons, whose title is not listed.
Dr. Cannard's eight more recent visits started on July 28, 2023, when he was listed as meeting with Megan Nasworthy, a White House liaison to Walter Reed. She was listed as the person visited for seven of those meetings, which consistently occurred early, between 7 and 9 a.m. on Fridays, with the exception of the last meeting, which occurred on Thursday, March 28, the day before Good Friday. The logs note a 10th visit that appeared to be for a family tour of the White House.
Andrew Bates, a White House spokesman, said that while the president always travels with regular doctors, "he has not seen specialists in Delaware," where he has private residences.
Around the time of the first meetings, Dr. Cannard published a research paper in the journal Parkinsonism & Related Disorders on the early stages of Parkinson's.
An array of neurologists who have not personally examined Mr. Biden said they observed symptoms in his public appearances that were consistent with Parkinson's or a related disease, such as hypophonic speech, forward flexed posture, a shuffling gait, masked face and irregular speech pattern. But they emphasized that a specific diagnosis could not be given without firsthand examination.
White House officials said that Mr. Biden had shown no signs of Parkinson's and that Dr. O'Connor found no reason to re-evaluate Mr. Biden for the disease since his physical in February. Mr. Bates also said the president has never taken Levodopa or other drugs for that condition.
In his interview with ABC News on Friday, Mr. Biden declined to agree to an independent neurological and cognitive exam. "I get a cognitive test every day," he said, meaning that the exceptional challenges of the presidency effectively tested him on a daily basis.
Calling into "Morning Joe" on MSNBC on Monday morning, Mr. Biden insisted again that his confusion and halting performance at the debate were an aberration due in part to an infection or other minor ailment, and were not a sign of a larger medical issue.
"If there was something that was wrong that night, it's not like it comes and that's one night and it goes away," he said. "That's why I've been out. I've been testing myself, testing everywhere I go. Going out and making the case. The night of that debate, I went out. I was out until 2 o'clock in the morning that very night. That very night. It drives me nuts, people talking about this."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Meetings; Presidents; Disclosure; Parkinson's disease

Business indexing term: Subject: Disclosure

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: MSNBC; NAICS: 513140, 516210; Name: Walter Reed Army Medical Center-Washington DC; NAICS: 622110, 928110; Name: ABC Inc; NAICS: 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/08/us/politics/parkinsons-expert-white-house.html

Title: Parkinson's Expert Visited White House 8 Times in 8 Months, but Why Is Unclear:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 9, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3076848246

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/parkinsons-expert-visited-white-house-8-times/docview/3076848246/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 9, 2024

Last updated: 2025-07-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Yes, Collapsing Under Weighty Expectations May Be the Coach's Fault: [Sports Desk]

Author: Smith, Rory

Publication info: Smith, Rory. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yes-collapsing-under-weighty-expectations-may-be/docview/3076324155/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The U.S. collapsed under the weight of expectations at the Copa América. Its next move could determine if there is a repeat, or a revival, at the 2026 World Cup.
The criteria were rigorous. The data analytics were advanced. The metrics were sophisticated, and the hiring methods cutting-edge. Most important, as U.S. Soccer set out on its global search for a new men's national team coach last year, it had at its disposal the one thing every successful soccer team needs: a multifaceted evaluation mechanism.
That was not all. There was much more corporate jargon to come. Matt Crocker, U.S. Soccer's technical director, had worked out that there were 22 elements to coaching a single soccer team -- including driving "player off-camp engagement" and supporting "squad auditing" -- as well as eight "core competencies."
This list, too, was exhaustive. Any candidate for the head coaching position had to possess a "vision-led identity" -- making the whole thing sound a bit like a help-wanted plea for an optician -- in addition to being a creative developer and a passionate innovator, which we should stress are absolutely not the same thing.
Crocker must have felt as if he and his staff had ticked every box, covered every base, when the search concluded with the previous incumbent, Gregg Berhalter, being replaced by himself. With the benefit of hindsight, sadly, there should have been a ninth core competency for the coach of the U.S. men's national team: Don't lose to Panama.
It has been that sort of week for U.S. Soccer. On Monday, a few days after that harrowing loss to Panama, Berhalter's team fell to Uruguay, eliminating it from a Copa América on home soil at the group stage. It's a particularly troubling humiliation, given that the country will host the World Cup in two years.
The reaction has been, well, predictable. The players are filled with regret, and sorrow, and just a little self-loathing. The fans are bubbling with fury. That U.S. Soccer's response was to promise yet another thorough review has done little to quell the mounting dissatisfaction: As far as most fans are concerned, the only viable outcome is an obvious one.
"It is time to make a change in the head coaching position," read a statement this week from the American Outlaws, the "largest U.S. Soccer supporter group." (It was good of them to put that bit in corporate speak, U.S. Soccer's native language.)
This is not, it has to be said, exactly an outlandish demand. Berhalter performed at somewhere around par at his first World Cup, guiding a young American side through a reasonably exacting group before falling, in the round of 16, to the Netherlands. But what is effectively his second spell in charge has been dispiriting to say the least.
Though his team won the Nations League earlier this year, it did so on the back of defeat in the semifinals of the 2023 Gold Cup -- again to Panama, which is proving to be its nemesis -- and a comprehensive loss to Colombia in a friendly match. A dismaying showing at Copa América was many things, but it was not really a surprise.
Nor does Berhalter have the excuse, as he did in 2022, that he has a young side. The United States' key players are all in their mid-20s, and are now approaching what should be their prime.
And while there is an argument to be made that the cost of playing soccer in the United States is prohibitive for many families, limiting the country's talent pool, it is not one that really applies here.
Only three members of Berhalter's Copa América squad play in Major League Soccer. He had six representatives from the Premier League and four from Italy's Serie A at his disposal, as well as others who play in Spain, France, Belgium and the Netherlands.
The United States may not have quite as much truly world-class talent as it might like to think, but that does not need to be inhibitive. Venezuela and Panama have both made the Copa quarterfinals. Slovakia, Slovenia, Georgia and Austria all made the round of 16 at Euro 2024. Switzerland is in last eight. Their playing resources are not significantly deeper, or higher quality, than those available to the United States.
The fact that their results have been so much better does -- unfortunately -- cast the harsh light of scrutiny onto the coach. It is hard not to argue that Berhalter has failed to make the most of what he does have available. And that, ultimately, is the job of an international coach.
As tempting as it is to mock U.S. Soccer's tendency toward the tortured language of management consultants, to dismiss its belief that the best parallel for the complexities of elite sports can be found in the world of Wall Street and Silicon Valley, to sneer at the distinct air of LinkedIn that swirls around the organization, it should be noted that Crocker is smart, adroit and well regarded.
His work at Southampton and the English Football Association -- also a place that has historically loved a "root-and-branch" review -- was impressive. He has enough experience to know that knee-jerk decisions rarely lead to happy outcomes. There is a nonzero chance that the phrase "react in haste, repent at leisure" is scoured into his soul.
And yet it is difficult not to wonder whether, at some point, everyone involved in U.S. Soccer has lost sight of what a national team manager actually needs to do. Not just the organization, with its PowerPoint presentations, its personality profiles and its "abstract reasoning testing," but the staff, the players and even the fans, too.
Berhalter has frequently spoken about his job, as coach, as being to "change the way the world sees American soccer." It is a message that has clearly burrowed into the brains of his players.
"We want to change the way that the world sees American soccer, to be honest, that's one of our goals," Christian Pulisic said a couple of years ago.
"We set out on a mission four years ago to change the way the world views American soccer," his teammate Weston McKennie said last year. "And now our motto is to change soccer in America forever."
There was an echo of that idea in the statement produced by the American Outlaws, too. "Every game isn't just about the result," it wrote. "It's an opportunity to capture America's attention, and build an everlasting bond between new fans and the team. It's an opportunity to compel new fans to put on the game and lasting fans to share the team with others."
This is an admirable, if quixotic, sentiment. Soccer is already rooted in the American sporting landscape. Millions of people play it. Millions of people watch it. There is a strong, resilient, well-attended domestic league. American players are dotted throughout Europe. The women's team was, for a long time, the best in the world.
Soccer has had America's attention for some time. True, the rest of the world may not pay a vast amount of attention, but that is hardly rare. Other than the Premier League, no domestic tournament really compels the attention of a foreign audience. Fans in Italy are not hungrily consuming the latest from the German Bundesliga. Soccer is characteristically parochial, and all the better for it.
More immediately, though, this belief that the United States is not playing to win games but hearts and minds piles undue pressure on the players. It creates an urgency, a will to panic, among fans that need not exist. And, crucially, it has clearly come to contort the way the game's authorities think.
In Crocker's hiring process, the one that led to the reinstatement of Berhalter, he dismissed focusing on the "next game, the next result" as the sort of small-time thinking indicative of a "legacy coach." Driven by the unquenchable desire to grow the game, U.S. Soccer had decided it needed the opposite of that, a big-picture guy, a stage-four galaxy brain.
And that is all well and good, right up to the point when a defeat to Panama means elimination on home soil, and the specter of impending humiliation -- and the spurning of the biggest opportunity of all -- sits just over the horizon.
U.S. Soccer's job is to think about tomorrow, to consider where the game goes, to have a vision-led identity. It is the coach's job to take McKennie, Pulisic, Gio Reyna and all of the others, and turn them into a team that can win a few games in 2026, maybe make a quarterfinal. There are not eight core competencies for a national team coach. There is one, and it is really, really obvious.
Now Euro 2024 Gets Good. Hopefully.
Euro 2024 has not -- until this point -- been what might be described as a classic. There have of course been moments. There are always moments. Mert Gunok's jaw-dropping save to preserve Turkey's win against Austria. Georgia's thrilling, emotional victory over Portugal. Hungary's ultimately pointless triumph over Scotland. Ruben Vargas's artful, curling strike to send Switzerland to the quarterfinals. Jude Bellingham's acrobatic salvo to spare English blushes.
And there has been color in rich and varied abundance: the dancing Dutch fans, the battalions of black-clad ultras, the passions and the pregame pageants staged by fans of -- though not necessarily from -- Turkey, Albania, Georgia and Romania. It's all good material.
But the tournament as a whole feels as if it has been scrabbling around, just a little, for momentum. This may well be structural. The group stage was, necessarily, a slow burn: starting with 24 teams but eliminating only eight tends to concentrate the drama in the last round of games.
It also has a knock-on effect in the round of 16, where there were too many fixtures with an obvious favorite: Switzerland against Italy and Austria against Turkey being the only exceptions. As a rule, the rest of the games took the form of a spirited underdog trying by tooth and claw to hold back the tide, ultimately without success.
There is, though, good news for the next two weeks: a mouthwatering quarterfinal lineup. France's meeting with Portugal will not, judging by this tournament, be especially dynamic, but there is a compelling tension in a meeting of two teams with realistic ambitions of winning the tournament.
Switzerland will present a faltering England with its first genuine test; the game functions as a study in whether a slick, well-drilled side can overcome a team packed with individual talent.
Spain has been the tournament's most impressive outfit thus far; its opponent, Germany, has home-field advantage and a gathering purpose.
But, just as Turkey's game with Austria was the most intriguing of the last round, its encounter with the Netherlands may well be the pick of this particular bunch.
Tradition dictates that the Dutch, even without their entire first-choice midfield, should be the favorite. Turkey, though, is all energy and drive and mayhem, and has two of the best players of the tournament in Arda Guler and Ferdi Kadioglu.
The Euros have been flickers and sparks, so far. This should be the point where they catch light.
Rory Smith is a global sports correspondent for The New York Times. Sign up for his weekly world soccer newsletter at nytimes.com/rory.
Photograph Weston McKennie after the United States lost to Panama during Copa América last month. Now the team faces a self-inflicted crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK); It is hard not to argue that Gregg Berhalter has failed to make the most of his team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO MUNOZ/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A28.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Core competencies; Coaches & managers; Soccer

Business indexing term: Subject: Core competencies

Location: Italy; Netherlands; United States--US; Panama

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/05/world/americas/usmnt-berhalter.html

Title: Yes, Collapsing Under Weighty Expectations May Be the Coach's Fault:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.28

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 7, 2024

column: The On Soccer Newsletter

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3076324155

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yes-collapsing-under-weighty-expectations-may-be/docview/3076324155/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Some of Biden's Donors Are Turning on Him, Quietly, After His Debate: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore; Vogel, Kenneth P; Goldmacher, Shane; Kelly, Kate

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore; Vogel, Kenneth P; Goldmacher, Shane; Kelly, Kate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-bidens-donors-are-turning-on-him-quietly/docview/3075517396/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some of the president's past supporters want a new candidate, but they are leery of going public.
Wealthy Democratic donors who believe a different nominee would be the party's best chance to hold the White House are increasingly gritting their teeth in silence about President Biden, fearful that any move against him could backfire.
As of late Tuesday, the party's moneyed class was carefully monitoring post-debate poll results and the positioning of elected Democrats for signs that support for Mr. Biden was cracking.
Earlier moves by donors to mount their own campaigns to pressure Mr. Biden to step down as the party's presidential candidate have either fizzled out or prompted pushback from fellow contributors and operatives.
The deadlock reflects a broader paralysis within the party about how to handle a fraught situation that could inflame intraparty rifts, alienate key constituencies, damage personal relationships and benefit a Republican candidate most of the donors believe poses a threat to democracy.
The dynamic started taking shape mere hours after the debate.
At a breakfast on Friday morning at the Hotel Jerome in Aspen, Colo., where nearly 50 Democratic donors had gathered for a preplanned meeting convened by the super PAC American Bridge, one person asked the crowd for a show of hands of how many thought Mr. Biden should step aside. Nearly everyone in the room raised their hands, according to two people present.
Some members of the Democracy Alliance network of liberal financiers proposed a public statement calling on Mr. Biden to stand down, setting off a vigorous debate among some members of the group, with some floating their dream tickets. But the group's board met after the debate and decided to maintain its support for Mr. Biden, according to a person briefed on the decision.
On a private email list including members of another liberal donor collective called Way to Win, participants expressed frustration with the Democratic Party's circling of the wagons around Mr. Biden and urged that Vice President Kamala Harris be considered for the top spot on the ticket.
A small private online poll distributed after the debate to liberal donors and their advisers found that of dozens of respondents, more than 70 percent indicated that they were "ready to explore Plan B."
And on Wall Street, some of Mr. Biden's wealthiest past backers -- including Seth Klarman, the billionaire chief executive of the hedge fund Baupost and a sharp critic of former President Donald J. Trump -- have privately discussed whether to look beyond Mr. Biden, according to two people briefed on his thinking.
On Tuesday, both American Bridge and the Democracy Alliance hosted calls for donors anxious about the situation. Of the more than a dozen donors who spoke on the Bridge call, only one argued that the party should stick with Mr. Biden, according to a participant. Others expressed a desire to move on.
And next week, the dilemma is expected to be a hot topic on the sidelines of the annual meeting of chief executives at the Allen & Company summit in Sun Valley, Idaho, according to a person close to several major donors.
The deliberations among wealthy Democrats, detailed in more than two dozen interviews as well as in written communications reviewed by The New York Times, only intensified as the Biden campaign and the party establishment formed a protective wall around him in the days after the debate.
The party's aggressive defense of Mr. Biden scared off donors from publicly calling for his replacement, said Maggie Kulyk, the owner of a wealth management firm and a board member of the Women Donors Network.
"Toeing this line makes us look almost, but not quite, as morally bankrupt as the Republican Party," she said. "I mean, c'mon, man! Know when to say when."
Ms. Kulyk added that donor coalitions might be timid about calling out Mr. Biden because they do not want to alienate donors "who feel strongly that we just need to stay the course."
But, she said, "I don't think the wall is very strong," adding, "If a few voices came out, it could all come apart. And in my mind, I think that's what needs to happen."
Donor support is one of the indicators being closely watched to gauge whether Mr. Biden will be able to survive the mounting doubts caused by his weak debate performance. Other factors include the stances of elected Democrats, some of whom began on Tuesday to question whether it is in the party's best interest to stick with Mr. Biden, as well as post-debate polls.
The backing of major contributors matters to Mr. Biden. Both Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden have harnessed digital fund-raising to their advantage during difficult moments, such as Mr. Biden's catastrophic debate and Mr. Trump's criminal conviction. But it is seven-figure donors who are essential to financing negative ads by super PACs, for instance.
The Biden team, along with some donors themselves, are uneasy about the suggestion that major contributors could orchestrate a change of the ticket.
"To suggest that the donor community could do that is scary," said Craig Kaplan, a lawyer and Democratic donor in New York. "Money plays too much of a role in politics already."
The debate has particularly riven Democratic donor groups that are typically fairly harmonious. At Way to Win, a donor collaborative founded during the peak of Trump-era resistance, organization leaders have touted Ms. Harris as a potential replacement for Mr. Biden.
Jen Fernandez Ancona, a founder of the group, stressed Ms. Harris's electoral viability to allies in an internal email chain reviewed by The Times: "I absolutely believe we can do it with Harris at the top of a ticket and a good V.P. choice."
Tory Gavito, another founder of Way to Win, said in an interview that the organization's official position stopped short of calling for Ms. Harris to lead the ticket.
If Mr. Biden withdrew, and Ms. Harris ascended to the top of the ballot, she would inherit the campaign's cash reserves, which stood at $ 212 million at the beginning of last month. If another candidate were elevated to the top of the ticket, things could get more complicated. "Think it through," said Steve Silberstein, a major Democratic donor. "You've got to think three moves ahead of this game."
Democratic donors have hotly debated prospective replacements beyond Ms. Harris, such as Gov. Gavin Newsom of California and Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan. Some donors have reached out to Mr. Newsom to encourage him to make a run, according to a person familiar with the outreach.
In Silicon Valley, efforts by Reid Hoffman, the billionaire founder of LinkedIn, to rally fellow Silicon Valley donors behind Mr. Biden have been controversial among his peers. In an email blast this week, a Hoffman adviser criticized Way to Win and Democracy Alliance.
One billionaire megadonor peer of Mr. Hoffman called an email he had sent minimizing the impact of the debate "shocking." And some other donors who received it found it too dismissive of the risks of keeping Mr. Biden as the nominee, according to two people close to other major donors. Tech entrepreneurs who have been dismissive of Mr. Biden's chances privately include the investor Ron Conway and the StubHub chief executive Eric Baker, according to people close to them.
On Wall Street, where executives tend to be unsentimental about cutting their losses, a half-dozen prominent Democratic donors said Mr. Biden's chances had plummeted after the debate, at times using expletives to describe the situation.
In recent days, some company leaders and Democratic political operatives have called the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, Jamie Dimon, according to someone with knowledge of the calls, to gauge his interest in replacing Mr. Biden. (Mr. Dimon has said repeatedly that he will not run.)
Michael Novogratz, a cryptocurrency investor who supported Mr. Biden in 2020 but now worries about his age, welcomed the moment. "I have been advocating for other choices," he wrote in a text to The Times. "The poor performance at the debate opened that door for the first time."
Mr. Klarman, the hedge-fund manager and a strong supporter of Mr. Biden in the run-up to the debate, has in recent days told friends and fellow donors that they should seriously consider exploring a Plan B, citing his debate performance, according to a person who has spoken to him.
"The most important thing President Biden -- and all of us who have supported him to date -- can do is prioritize the defeat of Donald Trump in this election," Mr. Klarman said in a statement. "I trust President Biden, who has been a truly great president, will continue to keep this at the center of every decision about the path forward."
Some donors and their political advisers said in interviews that Democrats would be better off focusing on groups that could help the party regardless of who is atop the ticket.
Steve Phillips, a longtime Democratic donor in San Francisco who described himself as having been "deluged with frantic calls, emails and texts from fellow Democratic donors desperately seeking a way to remove Biden from the presidential ticket," said he had counseled his peers to "just hunker down, ride this out and focus on voter mobilization." He added, "That's a much better use of your time than worrying about whether Gretchen Whitmer could be the candidate."
Donors pushing for replacing Mr. Biden should be careful what they wish for, warned John Morgan, a lawyer who said he had raised nearly $ 1 million for the Biden campaign and was planning a summer fund-raiser for Mr. Biden.
"I fear that the scrum for a new nominee could cause more infighting and do more harm than good in the overall scheme," Mr. Morgan wrote in a text. "None of us will decide -- the president will."
Still, the president's supportive outside groups and their donors are beginning to plot how they would shift gears without Mr. Biden. The billionaire Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz, one of the party's single biggest givers, was asked on social media on Tuesday what the party should do about Mr. Biden.
"Ah well that's easy, they just need to," Mr. Moskovitz joked, cutting himself off midsentence. He did not write another word.
Photograph Seth Klarman, a backer of President Biden, above, has privately discussed whether to look beyond Mr. Biden. Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, below left, has been considered by some as a replacement. A billboard paid for by the Democratic National Committee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG, VIA GETTY IMAGES; RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Nominations; Hedge funds; Debates; Executives; Political parties; Political campaigns; Election results; Negative campaigning; Presidential elections; Democracy; Political finance

Business indexing term: Subject: Hedge funds Executives

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Democratic Party; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/03/us/politics/biden-donors-debate.html

Title: Some of Biden's Donors Are Turning on Him, Quietly, After His Debate:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 4, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3075517396

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/some-bidens-donors-are-turning-on-him-quietly/docview/3075517396/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Politics of Discussing Politics in the Workplace: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kessler, Sarah; Mattu, Ravi

Publication info: Kessler, Sarah; Mattu, Ravi. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/politics-discussing-workplace/docview/3073772507/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some companies have banned political discussions at work, but that might be easier said than done.
Offices across the nation -- and Slack channels, the modern water cooler -- were abuzz Friday morning with voluble opinions about the presidential debate from the night before. How bad was Biden's performance? Should Biden step aside? Who should replace him? Can that even happen? Are voters more focused on performance than substance? How many times did Trump lie? Did Biden lie, too?
For most chief executives, presidential elections are a nightmare -- they create division inside teams, take up valuable time and can turn into a big distraction.
Kim Scott, a former Google executive and the author of "Radical Candor," described the sentiment of human resources executives who were at a recent gathering: "They are dreading this election because it's going to kill productivity for months."
So what's the solution? The C-suite may want to just hit the off button. But that may be easier said than done.
Around the time of the 2020 election, a couple of small companies, Coinbase and Basecamp, made big news when they introduced policies that banned political conversations at work, prompting dozens of employees resign. But much bigger firms have since introduced similar policies without inciting the same mass departure or public backlash.
In 2022, Meta asked employees not to discuss the Supreme Court ruling on the constitutional right to abortion, and shortly after that added other topics, including elections. Google's chief executive, Sundar Pichai, followed protests by employees over the company's cloud computing contract with the Israeli government with an announcement that noted, "This is a business, and not a place to act in a way that disrupts co-workers or makes them feel unsafe, to attempt to use the company as a personal platform or to fight over disruptive issues or debate politics."
Executives are feeling anxious about employee discourse. In a survey by the law firm Littler this year, about half of the 400 C-suite executives, in-house lawyers and human resource professionals polled said they were either moderately or very concerned about managing divisive political beliefs among employees. "I think that's a natural reaction given the divisiveness," said William Minor, DLA Piper's Washington managing partner.
Will a ban get you sued? Probably not. Political activities at work generally have little legal protection, according to Littler. But there are still some circumstances under which a ban could get legally perilous, such as when it affects a certain protected class of people, or if a company is operating in any of at least 11 states with laws that prohibit employers from punishing employees for expressing political views.
Is it practical? Also probably not, say some management experts. Scott said managers didn't know and couldn't control what their employees talked about. "It's delusional," she said of bans, adding, "When you say you can't talk about something, disagreements and assumptions pile up, and then they finally explode in a way that's way more dangerous and counterproductive." She recommends focusing on building a culture of respect instead.
There are other ways to rein in the water cooler. If an office political debate is becoming a big distraction from work, address the subpar performance, not the political conversation, said Johnathan Nightingale, a co-founder of Raw Signal Group, a management training firm. "It's a much more direct approach than saying, 'The following topics are off limits because they might cause you to be distracted from your work,"' he said.
Other policies may already address political debates that get out of hand. "I think companies are smart to sort of look at all of their policies," Minor said. Social media or harassment rules may already cover big disruptions that stem from divisive politics, and most corporate policies prohibit the use of company resources for personal political activity, he noted. "Often I think that's a better way to go," he said.
But that doesn't mean a ban can't work for anyone. Basecamp's chief executive, Jason Fried, recently told the BBC that since the big departure of employees who disagreed with the no-politics policy, there hadn't been any situations in which he had needed to enforce it. He called introducing the policy "probably one of the best decisions we've ever made." -- Sarah Kessler
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
President Biden's poor debate performance sent panic through the Democratic Party. Biden's faltering display in his first debate this year with former President Donald Trump renewed concerns about his age and ability to serve a second term, prompting some donors and Democratic strategists to discuss replacing him as the party's presidential candidate.
The Supreme Court made a series of decisions that limited the power of executive agencies. The justices on Friday overturned the Chevron doctrine, a Reagan-era precedent that allows government agencies leeway to interpret laws. The court released the ruling a day after it rejected the S.E.C.'s use of in-house administrative tribunals in fraud cases, threatening a process used by other agencies including the F.T.C. and I.R.S.
The Fed's preferred inflation measure cooled last month. The Personal Consumption Expenditures index climbed 2.6 percent from the previous May, down from 2.8 percent in April. The inflation rate remained above the Fed's 2 percent target, however, as investors bet on at least one rate cut this year.
Warren Buffett revealed details about his will and how his wealth will be distributed. The famed investor told The Wall Street Journal that almost all of his billions would be bequeathed to a charitable foundation run by his three children. He also disclosed that the Gates Foundation wouldn't receive any more money after his death.
How business leaders are thinking about the debate
Not all C-suite leaders are trying to stay out of the political fray. Among the most substantial responses to the jarring presidential debate this week were letters that Ray Dalio, the Bridgewater founder, and Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder and Greylock partner, sent to their contacts via email.
In his email, Hoffman said he had been inundated with questions about whether there should be a public campaign to pressure Biden to step aside. In Hoffman's view, the answer is no. "When he does poorly, he tends to bounce back -- and then win," he wrote.
Hoffman encouraged his contacts to consider how Trump's supporters reacted when he was convicted of 34 felonies:
"They ruthlessly and immediately closed ranks, because they understand that at this stage of the race, they must spend every minute and dime either boosting their old man, or tearing down ours. If we're musing on Biden's flaws, we're not organizing around Trump's flaws. That's bad for us and good for them."
He also argued that Biden had the right team; the right "values, instincts, patriotism and courage"; and still a chance at winning the race:
"The fundamentals matter vastly more than a single debate. Perhaps the best historical analogy is from 1984, when Ronald Reagan's first debate performance raised concerns about his age. He turned things around in the next debate, and won the election in a landslide."
Dalio, by contrast, focused on who might replace Biden as a candidate, suggesting that the choice could shape the next era of politics. The Republican side will consist of "players from the hard right," he wrote, and Biden's replacement would determine whether the Democratic side would "be from the soft left (socialists with liberal values) or hard left (closer to communists)."
He explained:
"We should be thinking about 1) the choice being between the right or left and how far right or left they are, and the facts that 2) the Republicans will field a leader and team that is from the hard right (strongly capitalist, nationalist, isolationist with deeply conservative values), 3) over the next few months, we will learn how far left the leader and players on the Democratic team will be, 4) the markets will prefer those on the right over those on the left, and 5) unfortunately, those of the bipartisan middle (i.e. those who respect civil rules of engagement and cooperate to create bipartisan leadership, which would be best) are pretty much out of the picture. Of course, personalities and competencies also matter some -- unfortunately, personality will matter much more than competence."
There wasn't much optimism in Dalio's email, which ended with his conclusion that the election is likely to come down to a choice between two extremists. "This leaves us with a pretty disturbing domestic picture in a world in which the other four big forces (debt/money/economics, international great power conflict, acts of nature/climate, and new technologies) will likely also be disruptive to the existing world order," he wrote.
On our radar: 'What Went Wrong With Capitalism?'
Ruchir Sharma is worried about America. The chair of Rockefeller International and a frequent business and markets commentator, he left his native India for the United States, partly inspired by Ronald Reagan's promise of greater economic freedoms. Now, he warns that capitalism needs a reset.
DealBook talked to him about his new book, "What Went Wrong With Capitalism?" The conversation has been edited and condensed for clarity.
Why did you write this book?
I'm all for the government playing a constructive role in the economy, but was aghast at its excesses during and since the pandemic. Just like the "revolution in pain management" addicted America to opiates, our economic managers addicted the nation to state relief by rolling out bigger bailouts in every crisis.
Having grown up with socialism and its ill effects in India, I was also stunned by polls showing many young Americans prefer socialism to capitalism. They see big corporations and billionaires as products of excessively free markets, rather than the beneficiaries of big government.
You say that Republicans and Democrats are equally to blame. How?
Presidents of both parties have been building a suite of habits -- spending, borrowing, stimulating, rescuing, regulating -- for decades. Bailouts were considered heretical before the 1980s, yet by the time of the pandemic even firms tied to Berkshire Hathaway were getting offers of relief. Capitalism requires churn and competition, not aid for Warren Buffett. The stimulus was too big, and lasted too long after the pandemic was over.
State relief supports the rich, and creates deadwood companies. Zombies -- firms that don't earn enough to cover interest payments -- were 2 percent of all public companies in 1990. Now they are around 20 percent. Bipartisan devotion to big government is zombifying capitalism.
Also since the 1990s, presidents of both parties have been adding 3,000 new regulations a year -- while withdrawing a total of 20. The retreat of the state is a myth, and many regulations favor businesses large enough to afford the high costs, which prevents start-ups from emerging.
What aspects of government are good for capitalism?
I am sympathetic to strong antitrust, possibly banning big companies from buying start-ups, and to welfare built on respect for individual freedom -- child-care tax breaks, for example. But the relentless boom in regulation needs to slow.
As for the Fed, its mandate needs to go beyond consumer prices and include prices for assets -- stocks, bonds -- when those prices are surging. Booming asset prices fuel inequality and frustration with capitalism.
It sounds like you are arguing for a reboot of state institutions.
We have socialized risk -- a system of state guarantees against economic pain for anyone, in which the rich and powerful do benefit most. So yes, I advocate a more modern state, which would be a smaller one.
Thanks for reading! We'll see you Monday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Presidential elections; Employees; Tribunals & commissions; Executives; Corporate culture; Work environment

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Executives Corporate culture Work environment

People: Reagan, Ronald Wilson

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/29/business/dealbook/biden-trump-the-politics-of-talking-about-it-at-the-office.html

Title: The Politics of Discussing Politics in the Workplace:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 1, 2024

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 307 3772507

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/politics-discussing-workplace/docview/3073772507/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Church Picks a Pastor but Ruffles Feathers: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Bellafante, Ginia

Publication info: Bellafante, Ginia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/church-picks-pastor-ruffles-feathers/docview/3073708207/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Behind the opaque process that just selected the next pastor at Abyssinian Baptist Church.
Ever since Adam Clayton Powell Jr.'s reign, beginning in the late 1930s, Abyssinian Baptist has been one of the most influential Black churchs in the country, a force in the political life of New York and an economic and social engine in Harlem, where it has stood for a century. When the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, who presided over the church for three decades, died two years ago at the age of 73, his legacy was felt both at the level of spiritual inspiration and material advantage. As chairman of the Abyssinian Development Corporation, he delivered roughly $ 1 billion to residential and commercial projects in Harlem, brought a new high school to the neighborhood and worked to blunt the sharpest edges of gentrification.
As former Mayor Michael Bloomberg put it when the pastor died, "Reverend Butts took the idea of building the kingdom of God literally."
Perhaps because of this outsize imprint, the process of naming his successor has been divisive, raising questions among some congregants around transparency and bias and whether the church, with a few thousand members, can sustain its prominence, or even stability. Over the past two years, the search for a new leader has been consuming. On Sunday, it resulted in the controversial election of a Philadelphia pastor named Kevin R. Johnson, who is described on the website for his current congregation -- Dare to Imagine Inc. -- less in the language of liturgy than in the parlance of LinkedIn: "a proven executive in transforming organizations into innovative, high-performing, fiscally sound and pioneering institutions."
In a statement issued right after the election, the Rev. Dr. C. Vernon Mason, a longtime Abyssinian deacon and a well-known former civil rights lawyer, said that the past two years had sent him on a "heartbreaking journey." According to institutional rules, he explained, a viable candidate needed "a proven record of at least 12 to 15-plus years of successful leadership over a large Black Baptist church." He went on: "The relentless pursuit to advance a particular candidate who did not meet the most basic requirement defies me."
The first public sign of tension around the hiring process came six months ago, when one jettisoned candidate, the Rev. Dr. Eboni Marshall Turman, an associate professor at the Yale Divinity School, filed a civil rights suit against the church, claiming that she did not advance to a final round of interviews because she was a woman. She had also never held the chief role in a major Baptist church. But having served at Abyssinian for more than 10 years -- she was the youngest woman ever to be named an assistant minister -- Dr. Turman, the suit claims, had been told by Mr. Butts that she was the "smartest minister" he ever had but that she had no hope of becoming senior pastor because of her sex. In a statement made when the suit was filed, the church denied the discrimination charge, maintaining that it put "faith, fairness, integrity and inclusivity at the center" of everything it did.
Throughout the spring those virtues were cast in doubt as accusations and counter-accusations about how thoroughly the search committee of 27 had stuck to bylaws and protocols and deep-dive vetting, in making its selection, circled the congregation. In contentious meetings and in petitions, letters and declarations, members of the church questioned, for example, why a leader of a nondenominational church had been elevated. (A spokeswoman for Abyssinian, LaToya Evans, said that Dr. Johnson was not available to be interviewed.)
A graduate of Morehouse College with a master's degree from the Union Theological Seminary and a doctorate in education from Columbia, Dr. Johnson worked at Abyssinian as a young pastor in the 1990s. Later, he ran Bright Hope, a well-known Baptist church in North Philadelphia but resigned after seven years following concerns about church finances, criticism of his apparent wish to run for mayor and a broken promise to include a charter school in a community development project.
All of this had been reported in the local press when he left the church in 2014. Two months ago, in a letter to Abyssinian trustees and deacons, 12 church members, writing that they represented a group of hundreds, asked how Dr. Johnson had become the leading contender out of a field of more than 40, given his tenure at Bright Hope.
When I asked Ms. Evans about Bright Hope, she responded by email to say: "We're focused on facts, continuing the legacy of Abyssinian and beginning this new chapter for the church." She confirmed that Dr. Johnson had not undergone a psychological evaluation even though that had been discussed as part of the hiring procedures no matter who would ultimately be chosen. "Rev. Dr. Johnson was recommended to the congregation by the Pastoral Search Committee following a rigorous interview and committee voting process where he emerged as the top candidate," she added.
A May letter from that committee to church members attempted to appease skeptics. It praised Dr. Johnson as "a proven fund-raiser" and the mood at his current church, Dare to Imagine, as uplifting for "the Christian love and warmth that first started in the parking lot." He founded it out of his house and grew the church to a congregation of 1,500 that now occupies a seven-acre campus. Committee members were impressed by what he had achieved: "College students participating in service, young families joining and men not only working but worshiping." They also singled out his engagement with "virtual members" hundreds of miles away.
When Samuel DeWitt Proctor, a mentor to Martin Luther King Jr., succeeded the towering Adam Clayton Powell Jr. as senior pastor at Abyssinian in 1972, he was elected in a four-way race. At some point during the past half-century the rules changed. Now congregants were simply voting yes or no on the final candidate chosen by a committee. Some congregants hoped for a broader field. Earlier this month, 115 signed a petition to try to stop last Sunday's vote. It proceeded regardless and Dr. Johnson, who will start his new role in a few weeks, won in a count that the church says is confidential.
"I don't think people are really against Johnson per se, but they're against the process," Barbara Lescouflair, a member of Abyssinian for 25 years told me the day after the election.
"We're fighting within the church," she continued. "We're not talking to one another. We're angry. I have seen a lot of things in Abyssinian but nothing like this."
On May 10, a senior deacon sent a memorandum to the search committee and the board of trustees with the subject heading: "Tainted, Flawed, Tarnished Pastor Search That Favored One Candidate." The deacon was met with a cease-and-desist letter from Abyssinian's lawyers, claiming that he had "impermissibly disclosed confidential information" and made "potentially defamatory statements" regarding the church.
The anger and friction aside, at heart are questions about how hierarchical institutions should govern themselves as they pursue progressive social and political agendas in a modern world. Since its founding in Lower Manhattan in 1808 and move to Harlem in the 1920s, Abyssinian has become a kind of global brand. How can community and corporate initiative coexist?
Email bigcity@nytimes.com; follow Ginia Bellafante on X: @GiniaNYT
Photograph The Rev. Dr. Kevin R. Johnson is the Abyssinian Baptist Church's new senior pastor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARMIN MUHAMMAD/BRIAN COMMUNICATIONS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page MB3.

Subject: Leadership; Baptist churches; Civil rights

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership

People: Johnson, Kevin R

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/28/nyregion/abyssinian-baptist-church-kevin-johnson.html

Title: A Church Picks a Pastor but Ruffles Feathers:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 30, 2024

column: Big City

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3073708207

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/church-picks-pastor-ruffles-feathers/docview/3073708207/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Grab Them. Then Stump Them.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/grab-them-then-stump/docview/3069047215/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: What's a five-letter word for an activity that media and technology companies are increasingly relying on to gain subscribers and keep them coming back?
G
A
M
E
S
Apple released a series of word-focused puzzles in its subscription news service last fall. LinkedIn, which is owned by Microsoft, debuted a set of word games this spring. News sites including Morning Brew, The Washington Post, Vox Media and The Boston Globe have added new puzzles beyond the crossword and hired staff to work on games. The publication you are reading has also invested in a collection of brainteasers.
It isn't all fun and games, exactly. For media companies, games are a way to attract new customers as their sites face declining traffic from Google, X and Meta, which have backed away from emphasizing news. For tech companies with editorial offerings, the puzzles are a way to entice new subscribers while engaging existing users who may not return to the apps daily.
"A publication is more than the stories it produces. It's an experience to look forward to, a pleasure," said John Temple, a former journalist and co-founder of Amuse Labs, which sells a software platform that helps publishers create puzzles. "They want to recreate that same satisfying experience for people that they might have had over years of doing a crossword in the newspaper."
Adding games and puzzles has become central to many publishers' strategies over the past few years, with momentum spiking in recent months as Apple and LinkedIn jumped in. As these news and tech companies vie for consumer attention against competitors like Netflix, Spotify and other forms of digital entertainment, others are likely to follow.
Many of the games are not Call of Duty-like shooters or the next Angry Birds. They are often word or logic puzzles, which can help people feel a sense of accomplishment for exercising their intellectual muscles. For companies with editorial products, word games also aren't drastically different from their core businesses.
There are early signs that the games are working. At The New York Times, new subscriptions for non-news products -- which include subscriptions for Games, Cooking, Wirecutter and The Athletic -- surpassed new subscriptions for the core news offering in the first quarter. (The Times doesn't provide numbers for games subscriptions alone.) Apple and LinkedIn said, without giving specifics, that early results were promising.
Publishers have a long history of adding games to their news offerings. For more than a century, newspapers included word games and brain teasers. The New York World published the first crossword on its "Fun" page on Dec. 21, 1913.
An exception was The Times, which promoted itself as "strictly a newspaper for intelligent, thoughtful people." That shifted after Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, dragging the United States into World War II. Times editors said that because of the heavy news environment, readers might want a diversion from relentlessly bleak headlines. In February 1942, The Times introduced its first crossword puzzle, which became a hallmark of the paper.
Publishers and tech platforms today have found the news cycle just as challenging, with wars in Israel-Gaza and Ukraine, as well as the looming U.S. presidential election and the culture wars that surround it. News and tech executives have sought to provide at least some refuge, however brief, from what can seem like an endless stream of bad news.
"News and current events are often characterized by things that are intractable," said Ross Trudeau, the puzzles editor at Apple News. "Puzzles are a way of saying some of these problems do have solutions -- even elegant ones."
(Mr. Trudeau comes from a lineage of media bona fides. His parents are Garry Trudeau, best known for creating the "Doonesbury" comic strip, and Jane Pauley, the television news anchor and journalist.)
The Times has had breakout games beyond its crossword puzzle. They include homespun creations like Spelling Bee, where users create as many words as possible with a handful of letters, and Connections, where people group a series of words that have a similar link. In 2022, The Times bought Wordle, a word guessing game that was a surprise hit, from its creator, who was a Reddit engineer. The game went viral when people shared their Wordle scores on social media.
Others have noticed. Last fall, Apple debuted a daily set of crossword puzzles for subscribers to Apple News+, its paid subscription service that curates articles from partner publishers. (The Times left the program in 2020.) Last month, Apple introduced a spelling game, Quartiles, where users spell words based on a jumbled series of fragmented word tiles.
"The more value we add to Apple News+, the more subscribers we bring in, which benefits our publishing partners," said Lauren Kern, the editor in chief of Apple News. Apple has also integrated Apple News+ puzzles into Games Center, its gaming social network, which lets users compete with friends for top scores.
LinkedIn followed with three puzzle games, which are featured prominently on its website and mobile apps. Dan Roth, editor in chief at LinkedIn, said the goal was to keep the content in line with the company's "professional network" brand, while also giving people a reason to regularly return and engage in conversations, both publicly and privately on the site.
"One of the main goals of LinkedIn is to bring people to the site, take the knowledge that's in their heads and share it with their network," Mr. Roth said in an interview. "You sometimes have to prime the pump to get people to start sharing, and adding games is a clear way to do that."
The companies said their approach to making games started with humans. Apple trumpeted its diverse team of puzzle makers and contributors to appeal to a broader audience, and said it tried to avoid crossword jargon in puzzle clues.
LinkedIn hired Paolo Pasco, a longtime crossword constructor and recent Harvard graduate, as its first games editor. The Times has highlighted its games team by showing the often low-tech process of handwriting and crafting the most popular puzzles on the site.
All of these companies are in the business of building new habits for consumers. That's especially true for new casual customers, whom they may bring into their apps with games but hope to keep around long enough to introduce them to other products, such as podcasts, sports -- and even hard news.
"When we see subscribers engage with both games and news in any given week, we're seeing some of the best long-term subscriber retention from that pattern," said Jonathan Knight, head of games at The Times. "So we're doing lots of things to encourage that behavior."
People need to feel good about visiting the apps, many of the companies said, even if it's in the fleeting but satisfying moment of completing a crossword puzzle at a personal best time.
"It's time well spent, and you're deciding how it fits into your life," Mr. Knight said. "You do one puzzle a day. Put it down and come down to the next one when you want. It's a real sense of achievement, and people can feel good about that."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Crossword puzzles; Subscriptions; Editors; Games; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/11/technology/news-tech-sites-games.html

Title: Grab Them. Then Stump Them.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 18, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3069047215

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/grab-them-then-stump/docview/3069047215/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Grab Them. Then Stump Them.

Author: Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/grab-them-then-stump/docview/3068908927/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — What’s a five-letter word for an activity that media and technology companies are increasingly relying on to gain subscribers and keep them coming back?
GAMES
Apple released a series of word-focused puzzles in its subscription news service last fall. LinkedIn, which is owned by Microsoft, debuted a set of word games this spring. News sites including Morning Brew, The Washington Post, Vox Media and The Boston Globe have added new puzzles beyond the crossword and hired staff to work on games. The publication you are reading has also invested in a collection of brainteasers.
It isn’t all fun and games, exactly. For media companies, games are a way to attract new customers as their sites face declining traffic from Google, the social platform X and Meta, which have backed away from emphasizing news. For tech companies with editorial offerings, the puzzles are a way to entice new subscribers while engaging existing users who may not return to the apps daily.
“A publication is more than the stories it produces. It’s an experience to look forward to, a pleasure,” said John Temple, a former journalist and co-founder of Amuse Labs, which sells a software platform that helps publishers create puzzles. “They want to re-create that same satisfying experience for people that they might have had over years of doing a crossword in the newspaper.”
Adding games and puzzles has become central to many publishers’ strategies over the past few years, with momentum spiking in recent months as Apple and LinkedIn jumped in. As these news and tech companies vie for consumer attention against competitors like Netflix, Spotify and other forms of digital entertainment, others are likely to follow.
Many of the games are not Call of Duty-like shooters or the next Angry Birds. They are often word or logic puzzles, which can help people feel a sense of accomplishment for exercising their intellectual muscles. For companies with editorial products, word games also aren’t drastically different from their core businesses.
There are early signs that the games are working. At The New York Times, new subscriptions for non-news products — which include subscriptions for Games, Cooking, Wirecutter and The Athletic — surpassed new subscriptions for the core news offering in the first quarter. (The Times doesn’t provide numbers for games subscriptions alone.) Apple and LinkedIn said, without giving specifics, that early results were promising.
Publishers have a long history of adding games to their news offerings. For more than a century, newspapers included word games and brain teasers. The New York World published the first crossword on its “Fun” page on Dec. 21, 1913.
An exception was the Times, which promoted itself as “strictly a news paper for intelligent, thoughtful people.” That shifted after Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, dragging the United States into World War II. Times editors said that because of the heavy news environment, readers might want a diversion from relentlessly bleak headlines. In February 1942, the Times introduced its first crossword puzzle, which became a hallmark of the paper.
Publishers and tech platforms today have found the news cycle just as challenging, with the Israel-Hamas and Russia-Ukraine wars, as well as the looming U.S. presidential election and the culture wars that surround it. News and tech executives have sought to provide at least some refuge, however brief, from what can seem like an endless stream of bad news.
“News and current events are often characterized by things that are intractable,” said Ross Trudeau, the puzzles editor at Apple News. “Puzzles are a way of saying some of these problems do have solutions — even elegant ones.”
(Trudeau comes from a lineage of media bona fides. His parents are Garry Trudeau, best known for creating the “Doonesbury” comic strip, and Jane Pauley, the television news anchor and journalist.)
The Times has had breakout games beyond its crossword puzzle. They include homespun creations such as Spelling Bee, where users create as many words as possible with a handful of letters, and Connections, where people group a series of words that have a similar link. In 2022, the Times bought Wordle, a word guessing game that was a surprise hit, from its creator, who was a Reddit engineer. The game went viral when people shared their Wordle scores on social media.
Others have noticed. Last fall, Apple debuted a daily set of crossword puzzles for subscribers to Apple News+, its paid subscription service that curates articles from partner publishers. (The Times left the program in 2020.) Last month, Apple introduced a spelling game, Quartiles, where users spell words based on a jumbled series of fragmented word tiles.
“The more value we add to Apple News+, the more subscribers we bring in, which benefits our publishing partners,” said Lauren Kern, the editor-in-chief of Apple News. Apple has also integrated Apple News+ puzzles into Games Center, its gaming social network, which lets users compete with friends for top scores.
LinkedIn followed with three puzzle games, which are featured prominently on its website and mobile apps. Dan Roth, editor-in-chief at LinkedIn, said the goal was to keep the content in line with the company’s “professional network” brand, while also giving people a reason to regularly return and engage in conversations, both publicly and privately on the site.
“One of the main goals of LinkedIn is to bring people to the site, take the knowledge that’s in their heads and share it with their network,” Roth said in an interview. “You sometimes have to prime the pump to get people to start sharing, and adding games is a clear way to do that.”
The companies said their approach to making games started with humans. Apple trumpeted its diverse team of puzzle makers and contributors to appeal to a broader audience, and said it tried to avoid crossword jargon in puzzle clues.
LinkedIn hired Paolo Pasco, a longtime crossword constructor and recent Harvard University graduate, as its first games editor. The Times has highlighted its games team by showing the often low-tech process of handwriting and crafting the most popular puzzles on the site.
All of these companies are in the business of building new habits for consumers. That’s especially true for new casual customers, whom they may bring into their apps with games but hope to keep around long enough to introduce them to other products, such as podcasts, sports — and even hard news.
“When we see subscribers engage with both games and news in any given week, we’re seeing some of the best long-term subscriber retention from that pattern,” said Jonathan Knight, head of games at the Times. “So we’re doing lots of things to encourage that behavior.”
People need to feel good about visiting the apps, many of the companies said, even if it’s in the fleeting but satisfying moment of completing a crossword puzzle at a personal best time.
“It’s time well spent, and you’re deciding how it fits into your life,” Knight said. “You do one puzzle a day. Put it down and come down to the next one when you want. It’s a real sense of achievement, and people can feel good about that.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Crossword puzzles; Subscriptions; Editors; Games; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Netflix Inc; Trudeau, Ross (Crossword Constructor); Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Book Trade And Publishing; Connections (Game); Collectors And Collections; Comic Books And Strips; New York Times; Books And Literature; Harvard University; Trudeau, Garry; Vox Media Inc; Kern, Lauren (Journalist); Pearl Harbor (Hawaii); Grabtaxi Holdi ngs Pte Ltd; United States; Touch (Sense); Mobile Applications; Temple University; Company Reports; Ukraine; Washington Post; Linkedin Corporation; Israel; Elections; Pasco, Paolo (Crossword Constructor); Crossword Puzzles; Boston Globe; Politics And Government; Spelling; Apple Inc; Google Inc; Social Media; Defense And Military Forces; Reddit Inc; X (Formerly Twitter); Apple Music; Computers And The Internet; News And News Media; Spotify; Cartoons And Cartoonists; E Sports; Athletic Media Co; Gaza Strip; Computer And Video Games; Japan; Newspapers; Television; Wordle (Puzzle); Meta Platforms Inc; New York World, The (Newspaper); Business

Title: Grab Them. Then Stump Them.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 17, 2024

Dateline: 2024-06-17T21:53:02Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3068908927

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/grab-them-then-stump/docview/3068908927/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A.I. Start-Up To Settle Suit By Providing Equity Stake: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-start-up-settle-suit-providing-equity-stake/docview/3068300887/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The facial recognition start-up doesn't have the funds to settle a class-action lawsuit, so lawyers are proposing equity for those whose faces were scraped from the internet.
A facial recognition start-up, accused of invasion of privacy in a class-action lawsuit, has agreed to a settlement, with a twist: Rather than cash payments, it would give a 23 percent stake in the company to Americans whose faces are in its database.
Clearview AI, which is based in New York, scraped billions of photos from the web and social media sites like Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram to build a facial recognition app used by thousands of police departments, the Department of Homeland Security and the F.B.I. After The New York Times revealed the company's existence in 2020, lawsuits were filed across the country. They were consolidated in federal court in Chicago as a class action.
The litigation has proved costly for Clearview AI, which would most likely go bankrupt before the case made it to trial, according to court documents. The company and those who sued it were "trapped together on a sinking ship," lawyers for the plaintiffs wrote in a court filing proposing the settlement.
"These realities led the sides to seek a creative solution by obtaining for the class a percentage of the value Clearview could achieve in the future," added the lawyers, from Loevy + Loevy in Chicago.
Anyone in the United States who has a photo of himself or herself posted publicly online -- so almost everybody -- could be considered a member of the class. The settlement would collectively give the members a 23 percent stake in Clearview AI, which is valued at $ 225 million, according to court filings. (Twenty-three percent of the company's current value would be about $ 52 million.)
If the company goes public or is acquired, those who had submitted a claim form would get a cut of the proceeds. Alternatively, the class could sell its stake. Or the class could opt, after two years, to collect 17 percent of Clearview's revenue, which it would be required to set aside.
The plaintiffs' lawyers would also be paid from the eventual sale or cash-out; they said they would ask for no more than 39 percent of the amount received by the class. (Thirty-nine percent of $ 52 million would be about $ 20 million.)
"Clearview AI is pleased to have reached an agreement in this class-action settlement," said the company's lawyer, Jim Thompson, a partner at Lynch Thompson in Chicago.
The settlement still needs to be approved by Judge Sharon Johnson Coleman of U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Notice of the settlement would be posted in online ads and on Facebook, Instagram, X, Tumblr, Flickr and other sites from which Clearview scraped photos.
While it seems like an unusual legal remedy, there have been comparable situations, said Samuel Issacharoff, a New York University law professor. The 1998 settlement between tobacco companies and state attorneys general required the companies to pay billions of dollars over decades into a fund for health care costs.
"That was being paid out of their future revenue streams," Mr. Issacharoff said. "States became beneficial owners of the companies moving forward."
Jay Edelson, a class-action lawyer, is a proponent of "future stakes settlement" in cases involving start-ups with limited funds. Mr. Edelson has also sued Clearview AI, alongside the American Civil Liberties Union, in a state lawsuit in Illinois that was settled in 2022, with Clearview agreeing not to sell its database of 40 billion photos to businesses or individuals.
Mr. Edelson, though, said there was an "ick factor" to this proposed settlement.
"Now you have people who are injured by Clearview trampling on their privacy rights becoming financially interested in Clearview finding new ways to trample them," he said.
Evan Greer, director of Fight for the Future, a privacy advocacy organization, was also critical.
"If mass surveillance is harmful, the remedy should be stopping them from doing that, not paying pennies to the people who are harmed," Ms. Greer said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Privacy; Facial recognition technology; Attorneys; Startups; Class action lawsuits; Social networks; Equity stake; Artificial intelligence

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys Startups Social networks Equity stake Artificial intelligence

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Clearview AI Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/13/business/clearview-ai-facial-recognition-settlement.html

Title: A.I. Start-Up To Settle Suit By Providing Equity Stake:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 15, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3068300887

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-start-up-settle-suit-providing-equity-stake/docview/3068300887/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lawmakers Question Microsoft Executive About Company's Presence in China: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Weise, Karen

Publication info: Weise, Karen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lawmakers-question-microsoft-executive-about/docview/3067615288/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Brad Smith testified before a House committee a year after Chinese hackers infiltrated Microsoft's technology and penetrated government networks.
Republican lawmakers questioned a senior Microsoft executive on Thursday about the company's presence in China, about a year after Chinese hackers used the tech giant's systems to launch a devastating hack of federal government networks.
Several members of the House Committee on Homeland Security asked Brad Smith, Microsoft's president, in an hourslong hearing how a critical contractor for the U.S. government like Microsoft could maintain a commercial business in China, which Mr. Smith said accounted for about 1.4 or 1.5 percent of the company's sales.
"Is it really worth it?" asked Representative Carlos Gimenez, a Republican from Florida.
Mr. Smith argued that Microsoft's business in China served American interests by protecting the trade secrets of Microsoft's American customers operating there and learning from what's going on in the rest of the world.
He added that Microsoft had denied Chinese government requests to turn over sensitive information. "I will tell you that there are days when questions are put to Microsoft, and they come across my desk, and I say, 'No,"' he said.
The hearing was a response to a scathing March report by the Department of Homeland Security's Cyber Safety Review Board. The report detailed how "a cascade of security failures at Microsoft" allowed a hacking team called Storm-0558, which the report said was an espionage group affiliated with the Chinese government, to infiltrate Microsoft's email systems in May and June last year.
The report criticized Microsoft for having "a corporate culture that deprioritized both enterprise security investments and rigorous risk management" and said the company's cybersecurity practices were critical national security because "Microsoft's products and services are ubiquitous."
The hackers somehow obtained a digital key -- what the report called "cryptographic crown jewels" -- for Microsoft's security mechanisms that let them forge the credentials of other users. They compromised the accounts of 22 organizations and more than 500 individuals around the world, including Commerce Secretary Gina M. Raimondo and the U.S. ambassador to China, Nicholas Burns. More than 60,000 emails were downloaded just from the computer network of the State Department, which discovered the breach.
The intrusion "should never have happened," the report said. It said Microsoft still did not even know how the hackers had obtained the digital key. It also chided Microsoft for making inaccurate public statements about the hack in the fall.
Microsoft has walked a delicate line in China. It has closed some businesses, such as the LinkedIn professional social network, but offers cloud computing services in China and houses engineering teams and a prized research lab there as well.
Mr. Smith said at the hearing that Microsoft had been shrinking its engineering presence in China and last month offered to relocate 700 or 800 employees who "were going to need to move out of China in order to keep their job."
The company's top executives, including Mr. Smith and the chief executive, Satya Nadella, have debated the future of the research lab and instituted guardrails that restrict researchers from politically sensitive work, The New York Times reported in January.
Mr. Smith pledged an urgent security effort inside Microsoft through what he called "the single largest cybersecurity engineering project in the history of digital technology."
Despite the tough report on Microsoft's security lapses, lawmakers at the hearing did not question Mr. Smith aggressively and instead focused on ways the government and private sector could work together.
"This is not a gotcha hearing," Representative Bennie Thompson of Mississippi, the committee's ranking Democrat, said in his opening remarks.
Mr. Smith stunned lawmakers when he described the scale of the challenge. He said Microsoft detected more than 300 million attacks a day on its customers.
Microsoft in January disclosed a separate hack, by a group sponsored by Russian intelligence, that the report did not cover.
In November, Microsoft announced a top-to-bottom overhaul of its security practices, its biggest security initiative in two decades, and in May said it would tie the compensation of its top executives to the overhaul's progress.
Mr. Smith said the company's board had approved a plan to tie a third of the individual performance bonuses for senior executives to cybersecurity. He also said all Microsoft employees would be evaluated on cybersecurity in their twice-a-year performance reviews.
Microsoft's competitors have pounced on its vulnerability. NetChoice, a trade group whose backers include Google, Amazon and Meta, released a poll of voters critiquing the government's reliance on Microsoft. NetChoice and several other trade groups backed by competitors sent letters to Biden administration officials calling for the government to use a wider variety of technology vendors.
A public relations firm that lists Google as a client regularly emails reporters when negative stories about Microsoft's hacks appear, at times offering up experts to speak with. This week, the business software company Salesforce sent a comment to reporters promoting its security culture.
Andy Jassy, Amazon's chief executive, told investors in late April that security would be critical for customers that are choosing which A.I. services to use.
"If you just pay attention to what's been happening over the last year or two," he said, "not all the providers have the same track record."
Photograph Brad Smith, president of Microsoft, testified Thursday before a U.S. House Homeland Security Committee hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH FRANTZ/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Corporate culture; Data encryption; National security; Legislators; Executives; Congressional committees; Cybersecurity

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate culture Executives

Location: China; United States--US

People: Smith, Brad

Company / organization: Name: Microsoft Corp; NAICS: 334610, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/13/technology/microsoft-hearing-security.html

Title: Lawmakers Question Microsoft Executive About Company's Presence in China:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 14, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3067615288

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lawmakers-question-microsoft-executive-about/docview/3067615288/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An A.I.-Generated News Site Prized Clicks Over Truth: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hill, Kashmir; Hsu, Tiffany

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir; Hsu, Tiffany. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-generated-news-site-prized-clicks-over-truth/docview/3065654344/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The news was featured on MSN.com: "Prominent Irish broadcaster faces trial over alleged sexual misconduct." At the top of the story was a photo of Dave Fanning.
But Mr. Fanning, an Irish D.J. and talk-show host famed for his discovery of the rock band U2, was not the broadcaster in question.
"You wouldn't believe the amount of people who got in touch," said Mr. Fanning, who called the error "outrageous."
The falsehood, visible for hours on the default homepage for anyone in Ireland who used Microsoft Edge as a browser, was the result of an artificial intelligence snafu.
A fly-by-night journalism outlet called BNN Breaking had used an A.I. chatbot to paraphrase an article from another news site, according to a BNN employee. BNN added Mr. Fanning to the mix by including a photo of a "prominent Irish broadcaster." The story was then promoted by MSN, a web portal owned by Microsoft.
The story was deleted from the internet a day later, but the damage to Mr. Fanning's reputation was not so easily undone, he said in a defamation lawsuit filed in Ireland against Microsoft and BNN Breaking. His is just one of many complaints against BNN, a site based in Hong Kong that published numerous falsehoods during its short time online as a result of what appeared to be generative A.I. errors.
BNN went dormant in April, while The New York Times was reporting this article. The company and its founder did not respond to multiple requests for comment. Microsoft had no comment on MSN's featuring the misleading story with Mr. Fanning's photo or his defamation case, but the company said it had terminated its licensing agreement with BNN.
During the two years that BNN was active, it had the veneer of a legitimate news service, claiming a worldwide roster of "seasoned" journalists and 10 million monthly visitors, surpassing the The Chicago Tribune's self-reported audience. Prominent news organizations like The Washington Post, Politico and The Guardian linked to BNN's stories. Google News often surfaced them, too.
A closer look, however, would have revealed that individual journalists at BNN published lengthy stories as often as multiple times a minute, writing in generic prose familiar to anyone who has tinkered with the A.I. chatbot ChatGPT. BNN's "About Us" page featured an image of four children looking at a computer, some bearing the gnarled fingers that are a telltale sign of an A.I.-generated image.
How easily the site and its mistakes entered the ecosystem for legitimate news highlights a growing concern: A.I.-generated content is upending, and often poisoning, the online information supply.
Many traditional news organizations are already fighting for traffic and advertising dollars. For years, they competed for clicks against pink slime journalism -- so-called because of its similarity to liquefied beef, an unappetizing, low-cost food additive.
Low-paid freelancers and algorithms have churned out much of the faux-news content, prizing speed and volume over accuracy. Now, experts say, A.I. could turbocharge the threat, easily ripping off the work of journalists and enabling error-ridden counterfeits to circulate even more widely -- as has already happened with travel guidebooks, celebrity biographies and obituaries.
The result is a machine-powered ouroboros that could squeeze out sustainable, trustworthy journalism. Even though A.I.-generated stories are often poorly constructed, they can still outrank their source material on search engines and social platforms, which often use A.I. to help position content. The artificially elevated stories can then divert advertising spending, which is increasingly assigned by automated auctions without human oversight.
NewsGuard, a company that monitors online misinformation, identified more than 800 websites that use A.I. to produce unreliable news content. The websites, which seem to operate with little to no human supervision, often have generic names -- such as iBusiness Day and Ireland Top News -- that are modeled after actual news outlets. They crank out material in more than a dozen languages, much of which is not clearly disclosed as being artificially generated, but could easily be mistaken as being created by human writers.
The quality of the stories examined by NewsGuard is often poor, the company said, and they frequently include false claims about political leaders, celebrity death hoaxes and other fabricated events.
Real Identities, Used by A.I.
"You should be utterly ashamed of yourself," one person wrote in an email to Kasturi Chakraborty, a journalist based in India whose byline was on BNN's story with Mr. Fanning's photo.
Ms. Chakraborty worked for BNN Breaking for six months, with dozens of other journalists, mainly freelancers with limited experience, based in countries like Pakistan, Egypt and Nigeria, where the salary of around $ 1,000 per month was attractive. They worked remotely, communicating via WhatsApp and on weekly Google Hangouts.
Former employees said they thought they were joining a legitimate news operation; one had mistaken it for BNN Bloomberg, a Canadian business news channel. BNN's website insisted that "accuracy is nonnegotiable" and that "every piece of information underwent rigorous checks, ensuring our news remains an undeniable source of truth."
But this was not a traditional journalism outlet. While the journalists could occasionally report and write original articles, they were asked to primarily use a generative A.I. tool to compose stories, said Ms. Chakraborty and Hemin Bakir, a journalist based in Iraq who worked for BNN for almost a year. They said they had uploaded articles from other news outlets to the generative A.I. tool to create paraphrased versions for BNN to publish.
Mr. Bakir, who now works at a broadcast network called Rudaw, said that he had been skeptical of this approach but that BNN's founder, a serial entrepreneur named Gurbaksh Chahal, had described it as "a revolution in the journalism industry."
Mr. Chahal's evangelism carried weight with his employees because of his wealth and seemingly impressive track record, they said. Born in India and raised in Northern California, Mr. Chahal made millions in the online advertising business in the early 2000s and wrote a how-to book about his rags-to-riches story that landed him an interview with Oprah Winfrey. A business trend chaser, he created a cryptocurrency (briefly promoted by Paris Hilton) and manufactured Covid tests during the pandemic.
But he also had a criminal past. In 2013, he attacked his girlfriend at the time, and was accused of hitting and kicking her more than 100 times, generating significant media attention because it was recorded by a video camera he had installed in the bedroom of his San Francisco penthouse. The 30-minute recording was deemed inadmissible by a judge, however, because the police had seized it without a warrant. Mr. Chahal pleaded guilty to battery, was sentenced to community service and lost his role as chief executive at RadiumOne, an online marketing company.
After an arrest involving another domestic violence incident with a different partner in 2016, he served six months in jail.
Mr. Chahal, now 41, eventually relocated to Hong Kong, where he started BNN Breaking in 2022. On LinkedIn, he described himself as the founder of ePiphany AI, a large language learning model that he said was superior to ChatGPT; this was the tool that BNN used to generate its stories, according to former employees.
Mr. Chahal claimed he had created ePiphany, but it was so similar to ChatGPT and other A.I. chatbots that employees assumed he had licensed another company's software.
Mr. Chahal did not respond to multiple requests for comment for this article. One person who did talk to The Times for this article received a threat from Mr. Chahal for doing so.
At first, employees were asked to put articles from other news sites into the tool so that it could paraphrase them, and then to manually "validate" the results by checking them for errors, Mr. Bakir said. A.I.-generated stories that weren't checked by a person were given a generic byline of BNN Newsroom or BNN Reporter. But eventually, the tool was churning out hundreds, even thousands, of stories a day -- far more than the team could "validate."
Mr. Chahal told Mr. Bakir to focus on checking stories that had a significant number of readers, such as those republished by MSN.com.
Employees did not want their bylines on stories generated purely by A.I., but Mr. Chahal insisted on this. Soon, the tool randomly assigned their names to stories.
This crossed a line for some BNN employees, according to screenshots of WhatsApp conversations reviewed by The Times, in which they told Mr. Chahal that they were receiving complaints about stories they didn't realize had been published under their names.
"It tarnished our reputations," Ms. Chakraborty said.
Mr. Chahal did not seem sympathetic. According to three journalists who worked at BNN and screenshots of WhatsApp conversations reviewed by The Times, Mr. Chahal regularly directed profanities at employees and called them idiots and morons. When employees said purely A.I.-generated news, such as the Fanning story, should be published under the generic "BNN Newsroom" byline, Mr. Chahal was dismissive.
"When I do this, I won't have a need for any of you," he wrote on WhatsApp.
Mr. Bakir replied to Mr. Chahal that assigning journalists' bylines to A.I.-generated stories was putting their integrity and careers in "jeopardy."
"You are fired," Mr. Chahal responded, and removed him from the WhatsApp group.
Countless Mistakes
Over the past year, BNN racked up numerous complaints about getting facts wrong, fabricating quotes from experts and stealing content and photos from other news sites without credit or compensation.
One disinformation researcher reviewed more than 1,000 BNN stories and concluded that a quarter of them had been lifted from five sites, including Reuters, The Associated Press and the BBC. Another researcher found evidence that BNN had placed its logo on images that it did not own or license.
The Times identified multiple inaccuracies and context-free statements in BNN stories that seemed to extend beyond simple human error. There were sources who were misattributed or absent, descriptions of specific events without references to where or when they occurred and a collage of gun imagery illustrating a story about microwaves. One story, about journalists tackling disinformation at a literature festival, invented a panelist and incorrectly included another.
After BNN suggested that Dungeness crabs, which are from the West Coast, were native to Maryland, an official with the state's Department of Natural Resources chastised BNN on X, calling on Google to "delist these stupid AI outfits that aggregate news and get things wildly incorrect."
After a lawyer complained on LinkedIn that a story on BNN had invented quotes from him, BNN removed him from the story. BNN also changed the date on the story to one before the publication date on an opinion column that the lawyer believed was the source of the quote.
The story with the photo of Mr. Fanning, which Ms. Chakraborty said had been generated by A.I. with her name randomly assigned to it, was published because news about the trial of an Irish broadcaster accused of sexual misconduct was trending. The broadcaster wasn't named in the original article because he had a super injunction -- a gag order that forbids news media to name a person in its coverage -- so the A.I. presumably paired the text with a generic photo of a "prominent Irish broadcaster."
Mr. Fanning's lawyers at Meagher Solicitors, an Irish firm that specializes in defamation cases, reached out to BNN and never received a response, though the story was deleted from BNN's and MSN's sites. In January, he filed a defamation case against BNN and Microsoft in the High Court of Ireland. BNN responded by publishing a story that month about Mr. Fanning that accused him of "desperate tactics in money hustling lawsuit."
This was a strategy that Mr. Chahal favored, according to former BNN employees. He used his news service to exercise grudges, publishing slanted stories about a politician from San Francisco he disliked, Wikipedia after it published a negative entry about BNN Breaking and Elon Musk after accounts belonging to Mr. Chahal, his wife and his companies were suspended on X.
A Strong Motivator
The appeal of using A.I. for news is clear: money.
The increasing popularity of programmatic advertising -- which uses algorithms to automatically place ads across the internet -- allows A.I.-powered news sites to generate revenue by mass-producing low-quality clickbait content, said Sander van der Linden, a social psychology professor and fake-news expert at the University of Cambridge.
Experts are nervous about how A.I.-fueled news could overwhelm accurate reporting with a deluge of junk content distorted by machine-powered repetition. A particular worry is that A.I. aggregators could chip away even further at the viability of local journalism, siphoning away its revenue and damaging its credibility by contaminating the information ecosystem.
Many audiences already struggle to discern machine-generated material from reports produced by human journalists, Mr. van der Linden said.
"It's going to have a negative impact on trusted news," he said.
Local news outlets say A.I. operations like BNN are leeches: stealing intellectual property by disgorging journalists' work, then monetizing the theft by gaming search algorithms to raise their profile among advertisers.
"We're no longer getting any slice of the advertising cake, which used to support our journalism, but are left with a few crumbs," said Anton van Zyl, the owner of the Limpopo Mirror in South Africa, whose articles, it seemed, had been rewritten by BNN.
In March, Google rolled out an update to "reduce unoriginal content in search results," targeting sites with "spammy" content, whether produced by "automation, humans or a combination," according to a corporate blog post. BNN's stories stopped showing up in search results soon after.
Before ending its agreement with BNN Breaking, Microsoft had licensed content from the site for MSN.com, as it does with reputable news organizations such as Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal, republishing their articles and splitting the advertising revenue.
CNN recently reported that Microsoft-hired editors who once curated the articles featured on MSN.com have increasingly been replaced by A.I. Microsoft confirmed that it used a combination of automated systems and human review to curate content on MSN.
BNN stopped publishing stories in early April and deleted its content. Visitors to the site now find BNNGPT, an A.I. chatbot that, when asked, says it was built using open-source models.
But Mr. Chahal wasn't abandoning the news business. Within a week or so of BNN Breaking's shutting down, the same operation moved to a new website called TrimFeed.
TrimFeed's About Us page had the same set of values that BNN Breaking's had, promising "a media landscape free of distortions." On Tuesday, after a reporter informed Mr. Chahal that this article would soon be published, TrimFeed shut down as well,
Photograph Left, Gurbaksh Chahal, the founder of BNN Breaking. Below, BNN's site. Bottom, Dave Fanning, a talk-show host, filed a defamation lawsuit against BNN Breaking and Microsoft, which featured the site's work on MSN.com. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIELLE LURIE/SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; PAULO NUNES DOS SANTOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU4, BU5.

Subject: Journalism; Journalists; Defamation; Employees; Websites; Artificial intelligence

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Artificial intelligence

Location: China; Ireland; India; Hong Kong China

Company / organization: Name: WhatsApp Inc; NAICS: 513210; Name: MSN.com; NAICS: 516210; Name: Microsoft Corp; NAICS: 334610, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/06/technology/bnn-breaking-ai-generated-news.html

Title: An A.I.-Generated News Site Prized Clicks Over Tr uth:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 9, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3065654344

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-generated-news-site-prized-clicks-over-truth/docview/3065654344/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Russia Detains Frenchman in Security Case: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Nechepurenko, Ivan

Publication info: Nechepurenko, Ivan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/russia-detains-frenchman-security-case/docview/3065154820/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The detention is the latest in a series in which foreigners have been arrested or held against their will in Russia, exacerbating tensions with the West.
Russian investigators said on Thursday that they had detained a French national in Moscow on suspicion of collecting intelligence about activities of the Russian military, adding to a list of foreign citizens held in the country since the invasion of Ukraine.
The Russian state news agency TASS identified the detained individual, citing its sources in law enforcement, as Laurent Vinatier. The agency said Mr. Vinatier was employed as a consultant at the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, a Swiss-based nonprofit.
On its website, the center states that its mission is to "prevent and resolve armed conflicts around the world through mediation and discreet diplomacy."
Responding to a request for comment, the nonprofit confirmed that Mr. Vinatier worked as an adviser and that he had been detained in Russia.
"We are working to get more details of the circumstances and to secure Laurent's release," the center said.
Mr. Vinatier has worked with the nonprofit since 2014 as adviser in its Russia/Eurasia program, according to his profile on the social network LinkedIn. He listed "facilitating meetings," and "passing messages" as among his duties. He also worked as a risk adviser, researcher and lecturer at various schools and institutes, with Russia as his primary focus.
President Emmanuel Macron of France took note of the arrest in remarks during a televised interview Thursday night.
"One of our compatriots has been arrested in Russia," Mr. Macron said. He did not identify the man but said he worked for a Swiss nongovernmental organization -- not the French government.
"In no way was this someone who worked for France," Mr. Macron said. French authorities are remaining "very vigilant" and will provide all necessary consular protections for the man who was arrested, he added.
Since the start of the full-scale war in Ukraine, Western journalists and researchers visiting or living in Russia have found it increasingly risky to work in the country as they have gotten caught up in the worst crisis in relations between Moscow and Western states in decades.
Russia's state Investigative Committee said in a statement that the detained French national would be charged for failing to register as a "foreign agent," a charge that carries a punishment of up to five years in prison.
The statement said that during repeated visits to Russia, the detained individual had held meetings with Russian citizens to "purposefully collect information in the field of military and military-technical activities of Russia" and that this information "can be used against the security of the state."
The agency published a video in which it showed security officials detaining a man in jeans and a black shirt who was sitting at a veranda outside a restaurant in central Moscow. The man's face was blurred in the video.
Mr. Vinatier has joined a list of Westerners in Russian custody including Evan Gershkovich, a reporter for The Wall Street Journal; Paul Whelan, a former U.S. Marine; and Alsu Kurmasheva, an editor working for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.
On Wednesday a court in St. Petersburg said that it had sentenced Yuri Malev, a Russian American national, to three and a half years in a penal colony after he posted memes and other posts that criticized the country, its leadership and its war in Ukraine on social media.
The detentions of Westerners in Russia in recent years have raised fears that the Kremlin is seeking to use them as bargaining chips to be exchanged for Russian individuals held in the West.
Aurelien Breeden contributed reporting.
Aurelien Breeden contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A9.

Subject: Social networks; Intelligence gathering; Political prisoners

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Russia; France; Ukraine

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/06/world/europe/russia-french-national-arrest.html

Title: Russia Detains Frenchman in Security Case:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.9

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 7, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3065154820

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/russia-detains-frenchman-security-case/docview/3065154820/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Israel, in Secret, Tried to Sway U.S.: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Frenkel, Sheera

Publication info: Frenkel, Sheera. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israel-secret-tried-sway-u-s/docview/3064814075/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Israel's Ministry of Diaspora Affairs ordered the operation, which used fake social media accounts urging U.S. lawmakers to fund Israel's military, according to officials and documents about the effort.
Israel organized and paid for an influence campaign last year targeting U.S. lawmakers and the American public with pro-Israel messaging, as it aimed to foster support for its actions in the war with Gaza, according to officials involved in the effort and documents related to the operation.
The covert campaign was commissioned by Israel's Ministry of Diaspora Affairs, a government body that connects Jews around the world with the State of Israel, four Israeli officials said. The ministry allocated about $ 2 million to the operation and hired Stoic, a political marketing firm in Tel Aviv, to carry it out, according to the officials and the documents.
The campaign began in October and remains active on the platform X. At its peak, it used hundreds of fake accounts that posed as real Americans on X, Facebook and Instagram to post pro-Israel comments. The accounts focused on U.S. lawmakers, particularly ones who are Black and Democrats, such as Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the House minority leader from New York, and Senator Raphael Warnock of Georgia, with posts urging them to continue funding Israel's military.
ChatGPT, the artificial intelligence-powered chatbot, was used to generate many of the posts. The campaign also created three fake English-language news sites featuring pro-Israel articles.
The Israeli government's connection to the influence operation, which The New York Times verified with four current and former members of the Ministry of Diaspora Affairs and documents about the campaign, has not previously been reported. FakeReporter, an Israeli misinformation watchdog, identified the effort in March. Last week, Meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram, and OpenAI, which makes ChatGPT, said they had also found and disrupted the operation.
The secretive campaign signals the lengths Israel was willing to go to sway American opinion on the war in Gaza. The United States has long been one of Israel's staunchest allies, with President Biden recently signing a $ 15 billion military aid package for the country. But the conflict has been unpopular with many Americans, who have called for Mr. Biden to withdraw support for Israel in the face of mounting civilian deaths in Gaza.
The operation is the first documented case of the Israeli government's organizing a campaign to influence the U.S. government, social media experts said. While coordinated government-backed campaigns are not uncommon, they are typically difficult to prove. Iran, North Korea, China, Russia and the United States are widely believed to back similar efforts around the world, but often mask their involvement by outsourcing the work to private companies or running them through a third country.
"Israel's role in this is reckless and probably ineffective," said Achiya Schatz, the executive director of FakeReporter. That Israel "ran an operation that interferes in U.S. politics is extremely irresponsible."
Israel's Ministry of Diaspora Affairs denied involvement in the campaign and said it had no connection to Stoic. Stoic didn't respond to requests for comment.
The campaign didn't have a widespread impact, Meta and OpenAI said last week. The fake accounts accumulated more than 40,000 followers across X, Facebook and Instagram, FakeReporter found. But many of those followers may have been bots and didn't generate a large audience, Meta said.
The operation began just weeks into the war in October, according to Israeli officials and the documents on the effort. Dozens of Israeli tech start-ups received emails and WhatsApp messages that month inviting them to join urgent meetings to become "digital soldiers" for Israel during the war, according to messages viewed by The Times. Some of the emails and messages were sent from Israeli government officials, while others came from tech start-ups and incubators.
The first meeting was held in Tel Aviv in mid-October. It appeared to be an informal gathering where Israelis could volunteer their technical skills to help the country's war effort, three attendees said. Members of several government ministries also took part, they said.
Participants were told that they could be "warriors for Israel" and that "digital campaigns" could be run on behalf of the country, according to recordings of the meetings.
The Ministry of Diaspora Affairs commissioned a campaign aimed at the United States, the Israeli officials said. A budget of about $ 2 million was set, according to one message viewed by The Times.
Stoic was hired to run the campaign. On its website and on LinkedIn, Stoic says it was founded in 2017 by a team of political and business strategists and calls itself a political marketing and business intelligence firm. Other companies may have been hired to run additional campaigns, one Israeli official said.
Many of the campaign's fake accounts on X, Instagram and Facebook posed as fictional American students, concerned citizens and local constituents. The accounts shared articles and statistics that backed Israel's position in the war.
The operation focused on more than a dozen members of Congress, many of whom are Black and Democrats, according to an analysis by FakeReporter. Representative Ritchie Torres, a Democrat from New York who is outspoken about his pro-Israel views, was targeted in addition to Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Warnock.
Some of the fake accounts responded to posts by Mr. Torres on X by commenting on antisemitism on college campuses and in major U.S. cities. In response to a Dec. 8 post on X by Mr. Torres about fire safety, one fake account replied, "Hamas is perpetrating the conflict," referring to the Islamist militant group. The post included a hashtag that said Jews were being persecuted.
On Facebook, the fake accounts posted on Mr. Jeffries's public page by asking if he had seen a report about the United Nations' employing members of Hamas in Gaza.
Mr. Torres, Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Warnock didn't respond to requests for comment.
The campaign also created three fake news sites with names like Non-Agenda and UnFold Magazine, which stole and rewrote material from outlets including CNN and The Wall Street Journal to promote Israel's stance during the war, according to FakeReporter's analysis. Fake accounts on Reddit then linked to the articles on the so-called news sites to help promote them.
The effort was sloppy. Profile pictures used in some accounts sometimes didn't match the fictional personas they cultivated, and the language used in posts was stilted.
In at least two instances, accounts with profile photos of Black men posted about being a "middle-aged Jewish woman." On 118 posts in which the fake accounts shared pro-Israel articles, the same sentence appeared: "I gotta reevaluate my opinions due to this new information."
Last week, Meta and OpenAI published reports attributing the influence campaign to Stoic. Meta said it had removed 510 Facebook accounts, 11 Facebook pages, 32 Instagram accounts and one Facebook group tied to the operation. OpenAI said Stoic had created fictional personas and biographies meant to stand in for real people on social media services used in Israel, Canada and the United States to post anti-Islamic messages. Many of the posts remain on X.
X didn't respond to a request for comment.
On its LinkedIn page, Stoic has promoted its ability to run campaigns backed by A.I. "As we look ahead, it's clear that A.I.'s role in political campaigns is set for a transformative leap, reshaping the way campaigns are strategized, executed and evaluated," it wrote.
By Friday, Stoic had removed those posts from LinkedIn.
Photograph The campaign targeted over a dozen members of Congress, including two Democrats from New York, Representatives Ritchie Torres, left, and Hakeem Jeffries, the House minority leader. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES; HAIYUN JIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10.

Subject: Military aid; Startups; Legislators; Social networks; Political parties; Jewish people; False information; Scandals; Chatbots; Diaspora; International relations-US

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Israel; Gaza Strip; Tel Aviv Israel

People: Torres, Ritchie; Jeffries, Hakeem S

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/05/technology/israel-campaign-gaza-social-media.html

Title: Israel, in Secret, Tried to Sway U.S.:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 6, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3064814075

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israel-secret-tried-sway-u-s/docview/3064814075/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Israel Secretly Targets U.S. Lawmakers With Influence Campaign on Gaza War

Author: Frenkel, Sheera

Publication info: Frenkel, Sheera. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israel-secretly-targets-u-s-lawmakers-with/docview/3065014907/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TEL AVIV, Israel — Israel organized and paid for an influence campaign last year targeting U.S. lawmakers and the American public with pro-Israel messaging, as it aimed to foster support for its actions in the war in the Gaza Strip, according to officials involved in the effort and documents related to the operation.
The covert campaign was commissioned by Israel’s Ministry of Diaspora Affairs, a government body that connects Jews around the world with the state of Israel, four Israeli officials said. The ministry allocated about $2 million to the operation and hired Stoic, a political marketing firm in Tel Aviv, to carry it out, according to the officials and the documents.
The campaign began in October and remains active on the social platform X. At its peak, it used hundreds of fake accounts that posed as real Americans on X, Facebook and Instagram to post pro-Israel comments. The accounts focused on U.S. lawmakers, particularly ones who are Black and Democrats, such as Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, the House minority leader from New York, and Sen. Raphael Warnock of Georgia, with posts urging them to continue funding Israel’s military.
ChatGPT, the artificial intelligence-powered chatbot, was used to generate many of the posts. The campaign also created three fake English-language news sites featuring pro-Israel articles.
The Israeli government’s connection to the influence operation, which The New York Times verified with four current and former members of the Ministry of Diaspora Affairs and documents about the campaign, has not previously been reported. FakeReporter, an Israeli misinformation watchdog, identified the effort in March. Last week, Meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram, and OpenAI, which makes ChatGPT, said they had also found and disrupted the operation.
The secretive campaign signals the lengths Israel was willing to go to sway American opinion on the war in Gaza. The United States has long been one of Israel’s staunchest allies, with President Joe Biden recently signing a $15 billion military aid package for the country. But the conflict has been unpopular with many Americans, who have called for Biden to withdraw support for Israel in the face of mounting civilian deaths in Gaza.
The operation is the first documented case of the Israeli government’s organizing a campaign to influence the U.S. government, social media experts said. While coordinated government-backed campaigns are not uncommon, they are typically difficult to prove. Iran, North Korea, China, Russia and the United States are widely believed to back similar efforts around the world, but often mask their involvement by outsourcing the work to private companies or running them through a third country.
“Israel’s role in this is reckless and probably ineffective,” said Achiya Schatz, the executive director of FakeReporter. That Israel “ran an operation that interferes in U.S. politics is extremely irresponsible.”
Israel’s Ministry of Diaspora Affairs denied involvement in the campaign and said it had no connection to Stoic. Stoic didn’t respond to requests for comment.
The campaign didn’t have a widespread impact, Meta and OpenAI said last week. The fake accounts accumulated more than 40,000 followers across X, Facebook and Instagram, FakeReporter found. But many of those followers may have been bots and didn’t generate a large audience, Meta said.
The operation began just weeks into the war in October, according to Israeli officials and the documents on the effort. Dozens of Israeli tech startups received emails and WhatsApp messages that month inviting them to join urgent meetings to become “digital soldiers” for Israel during the war, according to messages viewed by the Times. Some of the emails and messages were sent from Israeli government officials, while others came from tech startups and incubators.
The first meeting was held in Tel Aviv in mid-October. It appeared to be an informal gathering where Israelis could volunteer their technical skills to help the country’s war effort, three attendees said. Members of several government ministries also took part, they said.
Participants were told that they could be “warriors for Israel” and that “digital campaigns” could be run on behalf of the country, according to recordings of the meetings.
The Ministry of Diaspora Affairs commissioned a campaign aimed at the U.S., the Israeli officials said. A budget of about $2 million was set, according to one message viewed by the Times.
Stoic was hired to run the campaign. On its website and on LinkedIn, Stoic says it was founded in 2017 by a team of political and business strategists and calls itself a political marketing and business intelligence firm. Other companies may have been hired to run additional campaigns, one Israeli official said.
Many of the campaign’s fake accounts on X, Instagram and Facebook posed as fictional U.S. students, concerned citizens and local constituents. The accounts shared articles and statistics that backed Israel’s position in the war.
The operation focused on more than a dozen members of Congress, many of whom are Black and Democrats, according to an analysis by FakeReporter. Rep. Ritchie Torres, D-N.Y., who is outspoken about his pro-Israel views, was targeted in addition to Jeffries and Warnock.
Some of the fake accounts responded to posts by Torres on X by commenting on antisemitism on college campuses and in major U.S. cities. In response to a Dec. 8 post on X by Torres about fire safety, one fake account replied, “Hamas is perpetrating the conflict,” referring to the Islamic militant group. The post included a hashtag that said Jews were being persecuted.
On Facebook, the fake accounts posted on Jeffries’ public page by asking if he had seen a report about the United Nations’ employing members of Hamas in Gaza.
Torres, Jeffries and Warnock didn’t respond to requests for comment.
The campaign also created three fake news sites with names like Non-Agenda and UnFold Magazine, which stole and rewrote material from outlets including CNN and The Wall Street Journal to promote Israel’s stance during the war, according to FakeReporter’s analysis. Fake accounts on Reddit then linked to the articles on the so-called news sites to help promote them.
The effort was sloppy. Profile pictures used in some accounts sometimes didn’t match the fictional personas they cultivated, and the language used in posts was stilted.
In at least two instances, accounts with profile photos of Black men posted about being a “middle-aged Jewish woman.” On 118 posts in which the fake accounts shared pro-Israel articles, the same sentence appeared: “I gotta reevaluate my opinions due to this new information.”
Last week, Meta and OpenAI published reports attributing the influence campaign to Stoic. Meta said it had removed 510 Facebook accounts, 11 Facebook pages, 32 Instagram accounts and one Facebook group tied to the operation. OpenAI said Stoic had created fictional personas and biographies meant to stand in for real people on social media services used in Israel, Canada and the United States to post anti-Islamic messages. Many of the posts remain on X.
X didn’t respond to a request for comment.
On its LinkedIn page, Stoic has promoted its ability to run campaigns backed by AI. “As we look ahead, it’s clear that AI’s role in political campaigns is set for a transformative leap, reshaping the way campaigns are strategized, executed and evaluated,” it wrote.
By Friday, Stoic had removed those posts from LinkedIn.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Military aid; Startups; Legislators; Social networks; Political parties; Press conferences; Jewish people; False information; Scandals; Chatbots; Diaspora

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Israel; Gaza Strip; Tel Aviv Israel

People: Torres, Ritchie; Jeffries, Hakeem S

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Senate; Minorities; United States; Jews And Judaism; Bhaskar, Gabriela; University Of Georgia; Fakereporter (Nonprofit); House Of Representatives; Hamas; Russian Americans; Linkedin Corporation; Canada; Georgia; Elections; Palestinians; Israel; Georgia (Georgian Republic); English Language; Politics And Government; Elections, House Of Representatives; United Nations; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Iran; Warnock, Raphael G; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Muslims And Islam; Whatsapp Inc; Defense And Military Forces; Reddit Inc; X (Formerly Twitter); United States Politics And Government; Names, Geographical; Muslim Americans; Discrimination; Wall Street Journal; Tel Aviv (Israel); Openai Labs; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; World; Black People; International Relations; News And News Media; Cnn; Diaspora; Rumors And Misinformation; Facebook Inc; Democratic Party; Torres, Ritchie (1988 ); Foreign Aid; North Korea; Polls And Public Opinion; Gaza Strip; Federal Aid (Us); Civilian Casualties; Artificial Intelligence; Schatz, Achiya; Newspapers; Robberies And Thefts; Impostors (Criminal); United States International Relations; Instant Messaging; Russia; Meta Platforms Inc; Appointments And Executive Changes; Terrorism; Start Ups; New York Times; Jeffries, Hakeem; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Israel Secretly Targets U.S. Lawmakers With Influence Campaign on Gaza War

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 5, 2024

Dateline: 2024-06-05T21:46:25Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3065014907

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israel-secretly-targets-u-s-lawmakers-with/docview/3065014907/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Internet's Final Frontier: Remote Amazon Tribes of Brazil: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Nicas, Jack; Moriyama, Victor

Publication info: Nicas, Jack; Moriyama, Victor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/internets-final-frontier-remote-amazon-tribes/docview/3062967839/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As the speeches dragged on, eyes drifted to screens. Teenagers scrolled Instagram. One man texted his girlfriend. And men crowded around a phone streaming a soccer match while the group's first female leader spoke.
Just about anywhere, a scene like this would be mundane. But this was happening in a remote Indigenous village in one of the most isolated stretches of the planet.
The Marubo people have long lived in communal huts scattered hundreds of miles along the Ituí River deep in the Amazon rainforest. They speak their own language, take ayahuasca to connect with forest spirits and trap spider monkeys to make soup or keep as pets.
They have preserved this way of life for hundreds of years through isolation -- some villages can take a week to reach. But since September, the Marubo have had high-speed internet thanks to Elon Musk.
The 2,000-member tribe is one of hundreds across Brazil that are suddenly logging on with Starlink, the satellite-internet service from Space X, Mr. Musk's private space company. Since its entry into Brazil in 2022, Starlink has swept across the world's largest rainforest, bringing the web to one of the last offline places on Earth.
The New York Times traveled deep into the Amazon to visit Marubo villages to understand what happens when a tiny, closed civilization suddenly opens to the world.
"When it arrived, everyone was happy," said Tsainama Marubo, 73, sitting on the dirt floor of her village's maloca, a 50-foot-tall hut where the Marubo sleep, cook and eat together. The internet brought clear benefits, like video chats with faraway loved ones and calls for help in emergencies. "But now, things have gotten worse," she said.
She was kneading jenipapo berries to make a black body paint and wearing ropes of jewelry made from snail shells. Lately, the youth had become less interested in making such dyes and jewelry, she said. "Young people have gotten lazy because of the internet," she said. "They're learning the ways of the white people."
Then she paused and added, "But please don't take our internet away."
The Marubo are struggling with the internet's fundamental dilemma: It has become essential -- at a cost.
After only nine months with Starlink, the Marubo are already grappling with the same challenges that have racked American households for years: teenagers glued to phones; group chats full of gossip; addictive social networks; online strangers; violent video games; scams; misinformation; and minors watching pornography.
Modern society has dealt with these issues over decades as the internet continued its relentless march. The Marubo and other Indigenous tribes, who have resisted modernity for generations, are now confronting the internet's potential and peril all at once, while debating what it will mean for their identity and culture.
That debate has arrived now because of Starlink, which has quickly dominated the satellite-internet market worldwide by providing service once unthinkable in such remote areas. SpaceX has done so by launching 6,000 low-orbiting Starlink satellites -- roughly 60 percent of all active spacecraft -- to deliver speeds faster than many home internet connections to just about anywhere on Earth, including the Sahara, the Mongolian grasslands and tiny Pacific islands.
Business is soaring. Mr. Musk recently announced that Starlink had surpassed three million customers across 99 countries. Analysts estimate that annual sales are up roughly 80 percent from last year, to about $ 6.6 billion.
Starlink's rise has given Mr. Musk control of a technology that has become critical infrastructure in many parts of the globe. It is being used by troops in Ukraine, paramilitary forces in Sudan, Houthi rebels in Yemen, a hospital in Gaza and emergency responders across the world.
But perhaps Starlink's most transformative effect is in areas once largely out of the internet's reach, like the Amazon. There are now 66,000 active contracts in the Brazilian Amazon, touching 93 percent of the region's legal municipalities. That has opened new job and education opportunities for those who live in the forest. It has also given illegal loggers and miners in the Amazon a new tool to communicate and evade authorities.
One Marubo leader, Enoque Marubo (all Marubo use the same surname), 40, said he immediately saw Starlink's potential. After spending years outside the forest, he said he believed the internet could give his people new autonomy. With it, they could communicate better, inform themselves and tell their own stories.
Last year, he and a Brazilian activist recorded a 50-second video seeking help getting Starlink from potential benefactors. He wore his traditional Marubo headdress and sat in the maloca. A toddler wearing a necklace of animal teeth sat nearby.
They sent it off. Days later, they heard back from a woman in Oklahoma.
The Tribe
The Javari Valley Indigenous Territory is one of the most isolated places on Earth, a dense stretch of rainforest the size of Portugal with no roads and a maze of waterways. Nineteen of the 26 tribes in the Javari Valley live in full isolation, the highest concentration in the world.
The Marubo were once uncontacted, too, roaming the forest for hundreds of years, until rubber tappers arrived near the end of the 19th century. That led to decades of violence and disease -- and the arrival of new customs and technology. The Marubo began wearing clothes. Some learned Portuguese. They swapped bows for firearms to hunt wild boar, and machetes for chain saws to clear plots for cassava.
One family in particular pushed this change. In the 1960s, Sebastião Marubo was one of the first Marubo to live outside the forest. When he returned, he brought another new technology: the boat motor. It cut trips from weeks to days.
His son Enoque emerged as a leader of the next generation, eager to pull his tribe into the future. Enoque has split his life between the forest and the city, working at one point as a graphic designer for Coca-Cola. So when Marubo leaders became interested in getting internet connections, they went to him to ask how.
Enoque got his answer when Mr. Musk came to Brazil. In 2022, the SpaceX owner and Jair Bolsonaro, Brazil's president at the time, announced Starlink's arrival in front of a screen that said, "Connecting the Amazon."
Enoque and Flora Dutra, a Brazilian activist who works with Indigenous tribes, sent letters to more than 100 members of Congress asking for Starlink. None responded.
Then early last year, Ms. Dutra saw an American woman speak at a space conference. Ms. Dutra checked the woman's Facebook page and saw her posing outside SpaceX's headquarters. "I knew she was the one," she said.
The Benefactor
Allyson Reneau's LinkedIn page describes her as a space consultant, keynote speaker, author, pilot, equestrian, humanitarian, chief executive, board director and mother of 11 biological children. In person, she says she makes most of her money coaching gymnastics and renting houses near Norman, Okla.
Her story is ripe for the "Today Show" -- and, indeed, she has told it there. She enrolled in college at 47, got a master's degree from Harvard Extension School at 55 and then became a traveling motivational speaker. Her social media shows her with children in Rwanda, on television in Pakistan and at conferences in South Africa.
The attention she has attracted has not always been well received. In 2021, she was interviewed on CNN and Fox News for "rescuing" an all-girls robotics team from Afghanistan during the Taliban takeover. But days later, lawyers for the robotics team told Ms. Reneau to stop taking credit for a rescue she had little to do with.
Ms. Reneau said she did not try to help people for fame. "Otherwise, I'd be telling you about all the projects I do all over the world," she said in an interview. "It's the look on the face, it's the hope in the eyes. That's the trophy."
She said she had that perspective when she received a video from a stranger last year asking to help connect a remote Amazon tribe.
She had never been to Brazil but thought the return on investment was high. Enoque was asking for 20 Starlink antennas, which would cost roughly $ 15,000, to transform life for his tribe.
"Do you remember Charlie Wilson?" Ms. Reneau asked me. She was referring to the Texas congressman who secured Stinger missiles that helped the Afghan mujahedeen defeat the Soviets in the 1980s -- but that critics say also unintentionally gave rise to the Taliban.
Mr. Wilson changed that war with one weapon, she said. "I could see that this was similar," she said. "One tool would change everything in their life. Health care, education, communication, protection of the forest."
Ms. Reneau said she bought the antennas with her own money and donations from her children. Then she booked a flight to go help deliver them.
The Connection
The internet arrived on the backs of men. They trudged miles through the forest, barefoot or in flip-flops, carrying two antennas each.
Just behind were Enoque, Ms. Dutra, Ms. Reneau and a cameraman documenting her journey.
In the villages, they nailed the antennas to the tops of poles and plugged them into solar panels. The antennas then began connecting Starlink satellites to villagers' phones. (Some Marubo already had phones, often bought with government welfare checks, to take photographs and communicate when in a city.)
The internet was an immediate sensation. "It changed the routine so much that it was detrimental," Enoque admitted. "In the village, if you don't hunt, fish and plant, you don't eat."
Leaders realized they needed limits. The internet would be switched on for only two hours in the morning, five hours in the evening, and all day Sunday.
During those windows, many Marubo are crouched over or reclined in hammocks on their phones. They spend lots of time on WhatsApp. There, leaders coordinate between villages and alert the authorities to health issues and environmental destruction. Marubo teachers share lessons with students in different villages. And everyone is in much closer contact with faraway family and friends.
To Enoque, the biggest benefit has been in emergencies. A venomous snake bite can require swift rescue by helicopter. Before the internet, the Marubo used amateur radio, relaying a message between several villages to reach the authorities. The internet made such calls instantaneous. "It's already saved lives," he said.
The Debate
In April, seven months after Starlink's arrival, more than 200 Marubo gathered in a village for meetings.
Enoque brought a projector to show a video about bringing Starlink to the villages. As proceedings began, some leaders in the back of the audience spoke up. The internet should be turned off for the meetings, they said. "I don't want people posting in the groups, taking my words out of context," another said.
During the meetings, teenagers swiped through Kwai, a Chinese-owned social network. Young boys watched videos of the Brazilian soccer star Neymar Jr. And two 15-year-old girls said they chatted with strangers on Instagram. One said she now dreamed of traveling the world, while the other wants to be a dentist in São Paulo.
This new window to the outside world had left many in the tribe feeling torn.
"Some young people maintain our traditions," said TamaSay Marubo, 42, the tribe's first woman leader. "Others just want to spend the whole afternoon on their phones."
Kâipa Marubo, a father of three, said he was happy that the internet was helping educate his children. But he also was concerned about the first-person-shooter video games his two sons play. "I'm worried that they're suddenly going to want to mimic them," he said. He tried to delete the games, but believed his sons had other hidden apps.
Alfredo Marubo, leader of a Marubo association of villages, has emerged as the tribe's most vocal critic of the internet. The Marubo pass down their history and culture orally, and he worries that knowledge will be lost. "Everyone is so connected that sometimes they don't even talk to their own family," he said.
He is most unsettled by the pornography. He said young men were sharing explicit videos in group chats, a stunning development for a culture that frowns on kissing in public. "We're worried young people are going to want to try it," he said of the graphic sex depicted in the videos. He said some leaders had told him they had already observed more aggressive sexual behavior from young men.
Alfredo and Enoque, as the heads of dueling Marubo associations, were already political rivals, but their disagreement over the internet has created a bitter dispute. After Ms. Dutra and Ms. Reneau delivered the antennas, Alfredo reported them for lacking proper permission from federal authorities to enter protected Indigenous territory. In turn, Ms. Dutra criticized Alfredo in interviews and Enoque said he was not welcome at the tribal meetings.
The Future
Ms. Dutra now has a goal to bring Starlink to hundreds more Indigenous groups across the Amazon, including Brazil's largest remote tribe, the Yanomami.
Some Brazilian government officials and nongovernmental agencies said they worried that the internet was being rolled out to tribes too quickly, often without training on the dangers.
Ms. Dutra said Indigenous groups wanted and deserved connections. The criticism, she said, was part of a long tradition of outsiders telling the Indigenous how to live. "This is called ethnocentrism -- the white man thinking they know what's best," she said.
Enoque and Ms. Dutra said they planned to provide internet training. No Marubo interviewed said they had yet received it.
In April, Ms. Reneau traveled back to the forest. At Enoque's request, she bought four more antennas. Two were headed to the Korubo, a tribe of less than 150 people that was first contacted in 1996 and still has some members in full isolation.
Sitting on a log, eating dried beef and boiled cassava served on the maloca's dirt floor, Ms. Reneau said she recognized the internet was "a double-edged sword." So when she posts on Facebook about bringing the Marubo internet, she said, she always stresses that a leader requested it.
"I don't want people to think I'm bringing this in to force it on them," she said. She added that she hoped they could "preserve the purity of this incredible culture because once it's gone, it's gone."
Later at that same meal, Enoque's father, Sebastião, said the tribe's journey with the internet had been foretold.
Decades ago, the most respected Marubo shaman had visions of a hand-held device that could connect with the entire world. "It would be for the good of the people," he said. "But in the end, it wouldn't be."
"In the end," he added, "there would be war."
His son sat on the log across from him, listening. "I think the internet will bring us much more benefit than harm," Enoque said, "at least for now."
Regardless, he added, going back was no longer an option.
"The leaders have been clear," he said. "We can't live without the internet."
Flávia Milhorance and Lis Moriconi contributed reporting from Rio de Janeiro.
Flávia Milhorance and Lis Moriconi contributed reporting from Rio de Janeiro.
Photograph Using a cellphone in the Manakieaway village of the Marubo people, who have had high-speed internet access since September. (A1); Many Marubo people have signed up for Facebook and Instagram accounts since Starlink arrived. One 15-year-old girl said she now dreamed of traveling the world; another said she wants to be a dentist in São Paulo.; Applying body paint made with fruit. The youth of the tribe have become less interested in making traditional dyes and jewelry, Tsainama Marubo, 73, said.; Enoque Marubo has split his life between the forest and the city. He said he immediately saw Starlink's potential to give his people new autonomy.; Voa Marubo with her pet monkey in the Manakieaway village. (A12); A Starlink antenna in the Manakieaway village of the Marubo. Since September, the 2,000-member tribe has been going online with the satellite-internet service from Space X, the space company owned by Elon Musk. "When it arrived, everyone was happy," said Tsainama Marubo, 73. "But now, things have gotten worse," she said.; The Marubo diet consists of cassava, wild boar, fish and banana porridge.; Young people play on their phones, but there's still time to play in the river. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VICTOR MORIYAMA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12, A13.

Subject: Jewelry; Rainforests; Satellites; Social networks; Earth; Robotics; Native peoples; Satellite communications; Internet access

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Amazon Basin; Brazil

Company / organization: Name: Taliban; NAICS: 813940; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/02/world/americas/starlink-internet-elon-musk-brazil-amazon.html

Title: The Internet's Final Frontier: Remote Amazon Tribes of Brazil:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 2, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3062967839

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/internets-final-frontier-remote-amazon-tribes/docview/3062967839/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Internet’s Final Frontier: Remote Amazon Tribes

Author: Nicas, Jack

Publication info: Nicas, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/internet-s-final-frontier-remote-amazon-tribes/docview/3062943420/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
JAVARI VALLEY INDIGENOUS TERRITORY — As the speeches dragged on, eyes drifted to screens. Teenagers scrolled Instagram. One man texted his girlfriend. And men crowded around a phone streaming a soccer match while the group’s first female leader spoke.
Just about anywhere, a scene like this would be mundane. But this was happening in a remote Indigenous village in one of the most isolated stretches of the planet.
The Marubo people have long lived in communal huts scattered hundreds of miles along the Ituí River deep in the Amazon rainforest. They speak their own language, take ayahuasca to connect with forest spirits and trap spider monkeys to make soup or keep as pets.
They have preserved this way of life for hundreds of years through isolation — some villages can take a week to reach. But since September, the Marubo have had high-speed internet thanks to Elon Musk.
The 2,000-member tribe is one of hundreds across Brazil that are suddenly logging on with Starlink, a satellite-internet service from Space X, Musk’s private space company. Since its entry into Brazil in 2022, Starlink has swept across the world’s largest rainforest, bringing the web to one of the last offline places on Earth.
The New York Times traveled deep into the Amazon to visit Marubo villages to understand what happens when a tiny, closed civilization suddenly opens to the world.
“When it arrived, everyone was happy,” said Tsainama Marubo, 73, sitting on the dirt floor of her village’s maloca, a 50-foot-tall hut where the Marubo sleep, cook and eat together. The internet brought clear benefits, including video chats with faraway loved ones and calls for help in emergencies. “But now, things have gotten worse,” she said.
She was kneading jenipapo berries to make a black body paint and wearing ropes of jewelry made from snail shells. Lately, the youth had become less interested in making such dyes and jewelry, she said. “Young people have gotten lazy because of the internet,” she said. “They’re learning the ways of the white people.”
Then she paused and added, “But please don’t take our internet away.”
The Marubo are struggling with the internet’s fundamental problem: It has become essential — at a cost.
After only nine months with Starlink, the Marubo are already grappling with the same challenges that have racked American households for years: teenagers glued to phones; group chats full of gossip; addictive social networks; online strangers; violent video games; scams; misinformation; and minors watching pornography.
Modern society has dealt with these issues over decades as the internet continued its relentless march. The Marubo and other Indigenous tribes, who have resisted modernity for generations, are now confronting the internet’s potential and peril all at once, while debating what it will mean for their identity and culture.
That debate has arrived now because of Starlink, which has quickly dominated the satellite-internet market worldwide by providing service once unthinkable in such remote areas. SpaceX has done so by launching 6,000 low-orbiting Starlink satellites — roughly 60% of all active spacecraft — to deliver speeds faster than many home internet connections to just about anywhere on Earth, including the Sahara, the Mongolian grasslands and tiny Pacific islands.
Business is soaring. Musk recently announced that Starlink had surpassed 3 million customers across 99 countries. Analysts estimate that annual sales are up roughly 80% from last year, to about $6.6 billion.
Starlink’s rise has given Musk control of a technology that has become critical infrastructure in many parts of the globe. It is being used by troops in Ukraine, paramilitary forces in Sudan, Houthi rebels in Yemen, a hospital in the Gaza Strip and emergency responders across the world.
But perhaps Starlink’s most transformative effect is in areas once largely out of the internet’s reach, including the Amazon. There are now 66,000 active contracts in the Brazilian Amazon, touching 93% of the region’s legal municipalities. That has opened new job and education opportunities for those who live in the forest. It has also given illegal loggers and miners in the Amazon a new tool to communicate and evade authorities.
One Marubo leader, Enoque Marubo (all Marubo use the same surname), 40, said he immediately saw Starlink’s potential. After spending years outside the forest, he said he believed the internet could give his people new autonomy. With it, they could communicate better, inform themselves and tell their own stories.
Last year, he and a Brazilian activist recorded a 50-second video seeking help getting Starlink from potential benefactors. He wore his traditional Marubo headdress and sat in the maloca. A toddler wearing a necklace of animal teeth sat nearby.
They sent it off. Days later, they heard back from a woman in Oklahoma.
The Tribe
The Javari Valley Indigenous Territory is one of the most isolated places on Earth, a dense stretch of rainforest the size of Portugal with no roads and a maze of waterways. Nineteen of the 26 tribes in the Javari Valley live in full isolation, the highest concentration in the world.
The Marubo were once uncontacted, too, roaming the forest for hundreds of years, until rubber tappers arrived near the end of the 19th century. That led to decades of violence and disease — and the arrival of new customs and technology. The Marubo began wearing clothes. Some learned Portuguese. They swapped bows for firearms to hunt wild boar, and machetes for chain saws to clear plots for cassava.
One family in particular pushed this change. In the 1960s, Sebastião Marubo was one of the first Marubo to live outside the forest. When he returned, he brought another new technology: the boat motor. It cut trips from weeks to days.
His son Enoque emerged as a leader of the next generation, eager to pull his tribe into the future. Enoque has split his life between the forest and the city, working at one point as a graphic designer for Coca-Cola. So when Marubo leaders became interested in getting internet connections, they went to him to ask how.
Enoque got his answer when Musk came to Brazil. In 2022, the SpaceX owner and Jair Bolsonaro, Brazil’s president at the time, announced Starlink’s arrival in front of a screen that said, “Connecting the Amazon.”
Enoque and Flora Dutra, a Brazilian activist who works with Indigenous tribes, sent letters to more than 100 members of Congress asking for Starlink. None responded.
Then early last year, Dutra saw an American woman speak at a space conference. Dutra checked the woman’s Facebook page and saw her posing outside SpaceX’s headquarters. “I knew she was the one,” she said.
The Benefactor
Allyson Reneau’s LinkedIn page describes her as a space consultant, keynote speaker, author, pilot, equestrian, humanitarian, chief executive, board director and mother of 11 biological children. In person, she says she makes most of her money coaching gymnastics and renting houses near Norman, Oklahoma.
Her story is ripe for the “Today Show” — and, indeed, she has told it there. She enrolled in college at 47, got a master’s degree from Harvard Extension School at 55 and then became a traveling motivational speaker. Her social media shows her with children in Rwanda, on television in Pakistan and at conferences in South Africa.
The attention she has attracted has not always been well received. In 2021, she was interviewed on CNN and Fox News for “rescuing” an all-girls robotics team from Afghanistan during the Taliban takeover. But days later, lawyers for the robotics team told Reneau to stop taking credit for a rescue she had little to do with.
Reneau said she did not try to help people for fame. “Otherwise, I’d be telling you about all the projects I do all over the world,” she said in an interview. “It’s the look on the face, it’s the hope in the eyes. That’s the trophy.”
She said she had that perspective when she received a video from a stranger last year asking to help connect a remote Amazon tribe.
She had never been to Brazil but thought the return on investment was high. Enoque was asking for 20 Starlink antennas, which would cost roughly $15,000, to transform life for his tribe.
“Do you remember Charlie Wilson?,” Reneau asked. She was referring to the Texas congressman who secured Stinger missiles that helped the Afghan mujahedeen defeat the Soviets in the 1980s — but that critics say also unintentionally gave rise to the Taliban.
Wilson changed that war with one weapon, she said. “I could see that this was similar,” she said. “One tool would change everything in their life. Health care, education, communication, protection of the forest.”
Reneau said she bought the antennas with her own money and donations from her children. Then she booked a flight to go help deliver them.
The Connection
The internet arrived on the backs of men. They trudged miles through the forest, barefoot or in flip-flops, carrying two antennas each.
Just behind were Enoque, Dutra, Reneau and a cameraperson documenting her journey.
In the villages, they nailed the antennas to the tops of poles and plugged them into solar panels. The antennas then began connecting Starlink satellites to villagers’ phones. (Some Marubo already had phones, often bought with government welfare checks, to take photographs and communicate when in a city.)
The internet was an immediate sensation. “It changed the routine so much that it was detrimental,” Enoque admitted. “In the village, if you don’t hunt, fish and plant, you don’t eat.”
Leaders realized they needed limits. The internet would be switched on for only two hours in the morning, five hours in the evening and all day Sunday.
During those windows, many Marubo are crouched over or reclined in hammocks on their phones. They spend lots of time on WhatsApp. There, leaders coordinate between villages and alert authorities to health issues and environmental destruction. Marubo teachers share lessons with students in different villages. And everyone is in much closer contact with faraway family and friends.
To Enoque, the biggest benefit has been in emergencies. A venomous snake bite can require swift rescue by helicopter. Before the internet, the Marubo used amateur radio, relaying a message between several villages to reach authorities. The internet made such calls instantaneous. “It’s already saved lives,” he said.
The Debate
In April, seven months after Starlink’s arrival, more than 200 Marubo gathered in a village for meetings.
Enoque brought a projector to show a video about bringing Starlink to the villages. As proceedings began, some leaders in the back of the audience spoke up. The internet should be turned off for the meetings, they said. “I don’t want people posting in the groups, taking my words out of context,” another said.
During the meetings, teenagers swiped through Kwai, a Chinese-owned social network. Young boys watched videos of Brazilian soccer star Neymar Jr. And two 15-year-old girls said they chatted with strangers on Instagram. One said she now dreamed of traveling the world, while the other wants to be a dentist in Sao Paulo.
This new window to the outside world had left many in the tribe feeling torn.
“Some young people maintain our traditions,” said TamaSay Marubo, 42, the tribe’s first woman leader. “Others just want to spend the whole afternoon on their phones.”
Kâipa Marubo, a father of three, said he was happy that the internet was helping educate his children. But he also was concerned about the first-person-shooter video games that his two sons play. “I’m worried that they’re suddenly going to want to mimic them,” he said. He tried to delete the games but believed his sons had other hidden apps.
Alfredo Marubo, leader of a Marubo association of villages, has emerged as the tribe’s most vocal critic of the internet. The Marubo pass down their history and culture orally, and he worries that knowledge will be lost. “Everyone is so connected that sometimes they don’t even talk to their own family,” he said.
He is most unsettled by the pornography. He said young men were sharing explicit videos in group chats, a stunning development for a culture that frowns on kissing in public.
“We’re worried young people are going to want to try it,” he said of the graphic sex depicted in the videos. He said some leaders had told him they had already observed more aggressive sexual behavior from young men.
Alfredo and Enoque, as the heads of dueling Marubo associations, were already political rivals, but their disagreement over the internet has created a bitter dispute. After Dutra and Reneau delivered the antennas, Alfredo reported them for lacking proper permission from federal authorities to enter protected Indigenous territory. In turn, Dutra criticized Alfredo in interviews and Enoque said he was not welcome at the tribal meetings.
The Future
Dutra now has a goal to bring Starlink to hundreds more Indigenous groups across the Amazon, including Brazil’s largest remote tribe, the Yanomami.
Some Brazilian government officials and nongovernmental agencies said they worried that the internet was being rolled out to tribes too quickly, often without training on the dangers.
Dutra said Indigenous groups wanted and deserved connections. The criticism, she said, was part of a long tradition of outsiders telling the Indigenous how to live. “This is called ethnocentrism — the white man thinking they know what’s best,” she said.
Enoque and Dutra said they planned to provide internet training. No Marubo interviewed said they had yet received it.
In April, Reneau traveled back to the forest. At Enoque’s request, she bought four more antennas. Two were headed to the Korubo, a tribe of less than 150 people that was first contacted in 1996 and still has some members in full isolation.
Sitting on a log, eating dried beef and boiled cassava served on the maloca’s dirt floor, Reneau said she recognized the internet was “a double-edged sword.” So when she posts on Facebook about bringing the Marubo internet, she said, she always stresses that a leader requested it.
“I don’t want people to think I’m bringing this in to force it on them,” she said. She added that she hoped they could “preserve the purity of this incredible culture because once it’s gone, it’s gone.”
Later at that same meal, Enoque’s father, Sebastião, said the tribe’s journey with the internet had been foretold.
Decades ago, the most respected Marubo shaman had visions of a handheld device that could connect with the entire world. “It would be for the good of the people,” he said. “But in the end, it wouldn’t be.”
“In the end,” he added, “there would be war.”
His son sat on the log across from him, listening. “I think the internet will bring us much more benefit than harm,” Enoque said, “at least for now.”
Regardless, he added, going back was no longer an option.
“The leaders have been clear,” he said. “We can’t live without the internet.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Since September, the Marubo, an isolated Amazon tribe, were connected to high-speed internet through Elon Musk’s Starlink. Jack Nicas, The New York Times’s Brazil bureau chief, visited the tribe’s remote Indigenous villages to see what the internet has changed for them. BY Jack Nicas, Rebecca Suner and James Surdam for The New York Times. The New York Times mime-type= video/mp4 source= https://nytapi.wieck.com/feed/ayaCl/video/AaT4YzpE/encode/5db30165-0232-4f23-9ebc-3be86f6dff15?expires=2024-06-18T19:00:00.948019Z&signature=+Iau14u/rtd+YQ7h6cHFHqLhauI= alternate-text= Since September, the Marubo, an isolated Amazon tribe, were connected to high-speed internet through Elon Musk’s Starlink. Jack Nicas, The New York Times’s Brazil bureau chief, visited the tribe’s remote Indigenous villages to see what the internet has changed for them. BY Jack Nicas, Rebecca Suner and James Surdam for The New York Times. > Since September, the Marubo, an isolated Amazon tribe, were connected to high-speed internet through Elon Musk’s Starlink. Jack Nicas, The New York Times’s Brazil bureau chief, visited the tribe’s remote Indigenous villages to see what the internet has changed for them. BY Jack Nicas, Rebecca Suner and James Surdam for The New York Times. The New York Times

Subject: Internet; Rainforests; Social networks; Earth; Jewelry; Satellites; Robotics

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Amazon Basin; New York; United States--US; Brazil; Oklahoma

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 51611 0, 516120; Name: Taliban; NAICS: 813940; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Animal Behavior; Yemen; Politics And Government; South Africa; Starlink Satellite Constellation (Spacex); Hunger Strikes; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Pets; Ussr (Former Soviet Union); Animal Abuse, Rights And Welfare; Mobile Applications; Amazon River; Coca Cola Company; Ukraine; Private Spaceflight; Linkedin Corporation; Yanomami Indians; Youth; Elections; Men And Boys; Satellites; Indigenous People; Violence (Media And Entertainment); Rescues; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Logging Industry; Frontier Airlines Inc; Sahara Desert; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Whatsapp Inc; Defense And Military Forces; Missiles And Missile Defense Systems; Mongolia; Texas; Sao Paulo (Brazil); Women And Girls; Rivers; AmazonCom Inc; Portugal; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; World; News And News Media; Cnn; Rumors And Misinformation; Facebook Inc; Brazil; Pakistan; Education (K 12); Computer And Video Games; Earth; Norman (Okla); Houthis; Space And Astronomy; Afghanistan; Fox News Channel; Bolsonaro, Jair (1955 ); Instant Messaging; Africa; Television; Tribes (Play); Javari Valley (Brazil); Sudan; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Neymar; Baluchistan (Pakistan); Terrorism; Oklahoma; Amazon Jungle; New York Times; Infrastructure (Public Works); Forests And Forestry; Rwanda; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological

Title: The Internet’s Final Frontier: Remote Amazon Tribes

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 1, 2024

Dateline: 2024-06-01T16:53:17Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3062943420

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/internet-s-final-frontier-remote-amazon-tribes/docview/3062943420/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sites Host Propaganda From Russia: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hsu, Tiffany; Steven Lee Myers

Publication info: Hsu, Tiffany; Steven Lee Myers. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sites-host-propaganda-russia/docview/3062320006/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A study found that hundreds of sites, many without obvious Kremlin links, copied Russian propaganda and spread it to unsuspecting audiences ahead of the E.U. election.
The website calling itself Man Stuff News caters to a certain sensibility, with categories like "Backyard Grilling," "TV Shows for Guys" and "Beard Grooming." A recent article headlined "Tips for Dads During Labor" offered this nugget of advice: "Just remember to spend some time together before deciding whether or not to give birth."
Get to its section devoted to world news, however, and the nature of the coverage changes drastically. There, a recent article belittled an international warrant to arrest Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, for war crimes. It repeated, word for word, an article that had appeared a day before under a different byline on the website for RT, Russia's global television network.
RT, which the U.S. State Department describes as a key player in the Kremlin's disinformation and propaganda apparatus, has been blocked in the European Union, Canada and other countries since Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022. Sites like Man Stuff News, however, have helped RT sidestep the restrictions and continue reaching European and American audiences, according to a new report.
Replicas of RT articles have been laundered thousands of times through hundreds of sites, according to the report, written by researchers from the German Marshall Fund, the University of Amsterdam and the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, a research nonprofit. The sites include content aggregators like Infowars, run by the conspiracy theorist Alex Jones; mirrors of RT repurposed from abandoned "zombie" sites; faux local news outlets with names like San Francisco Telegraph; and domains focusing on spirituality, yoga, extraterrestrials and the apocalypse. Many of the articles were then further disseminated through social media.
The rationale for reposting RT content most likely varies from site to site, but the surreptitious republishing represents a particular danger in the European Union, where concerns about Kremlin-linked disinformation campaigns are intensifying, especially as Russia tries to weaken European support for Ukraine ahead of parliamentary elections next week.
"This is really the tip of the Russian propaganda iceberg," said Bret Schafer, a co-author of the report and a senior fellow at German Marshall Fund. "It was quite evident when we were running the search results in the E.U. that if Russian propaganda is not showing up on Russian domains, it's getting through, which is sort of a double whammy because it's not just evading restrictions and bans, it's doing so on sites that are less transparent than RT itself."
RT said in a statement that its content did not follow the "U.S. State Department/NATO party line" and added that it is "very glad that RT's news content is so massively popular with a wide range of platforms and users."
A message sent to an email address listed for the Man Stuff News website registration went unanswered. The site offers few details about where it is based or who operates it.
As non-Russian sources parroted the Kremlin's talking points, they helped legitimize the narratives to an often unsuspecting audience, the researchers concluded. The copied articles, which the researchers described as "Russia's propaganda nesting dolls," targeted a huge geographic swath of viewers via sites registered in at least 40 countries across six continents, including in countries where RT is ostensibly blocked. When factoring in RT's content in languages other than English along with other Kremlin-controlled media outlets, the true scope of Russian propaganda laundering is probably much greater, the researchers said.
Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, said in a speech this month that she was "particularly concerned about the rise of foreign interference and manipulation in our societies, our democracies and our elections." She cited "swarms of negative disinformation" about specific issues and candidates and malicious attempts at "buying influence and causing chaos."
Last month, a consortium of 36 European fact-checking organizations said that false or misleading content about the European Union or Ukraine was among the most prevalent forms of disinformation it had encountered.
An E.U. report this year said operatives abroad -- most obviously from Russia, but also China -- were coordinating on "virtually all platforms" to create an alternative information environment that would erode trust in democracy. Last month, the European Commission conducted a pre-election stress test to evaluate the platforms' preparedness against A.I.-generated fakery, influence campaigns from bot accounts and other threats.
Since 2022, the Kremlin has been unable to gain access to some of its main messaging channels in the West after Canada and the European Union took RT off their airwaves. This month, the bloc suspended four other Russian media outlets from broadcasting.
In the United States, government regulators did not take action against the Russian network's American outpost, RT America. Instead, television distributors across the country cut ties with RT America in early 2022, and it shut down within days.
Online platforms have also tried to curb RT's reach; YouTube blocked global access to channels affiliated with RT and said it strove to remove harmful misinformation. Laundered RT content, however, persists there and on other platforms, researchers said, echoing findings from other research groups. On YouTube, RT articles seemed to have been narrated using an automated text-to-speech generator to evade filters. Content copied from RT also appeared on major social and messaging sites like Facebook, LinkedIn, Pinterest, Substack, Telegram and X, as well as on niche platforms such as Gab and Rumble, the researchers said.
Working from more than 1,500 RT articles published last year, the researchers looked for websites that featured similar content or metadata, limiting their search to results geolocated in the United States and Belgium, the European Union's de facto capital.
Some of the sites were probably circulating RT's content with the network's permission, the researchers said, while others had plagiarized RT without its knowledge. The sites may have been ideologically aligned with the Kremlin, or more intent on driving traffic to boost visibility or ad revenue. Some of the sites disclosed that they were reposting RT content. (Man Stuff News ended its copy of the article about Mr. Putin's arrest warrant by posting the web address of the original RT story.)
Verbatim replicas of RT articles appeared on media outlets affiliated with governments in Cambodia, Iran, Nigeria and Yemen, as well as on one Lebanese outlet owned by Hezbollah, an Iranian-backed Lebanese militia. Researchers connected one website to a conservative Catholic online ministry in Texas that had posts about abortion, candlemaking and, in an example lifted from RT, the lack of aid after an earthquake in Syria.
Researchers noted that RT was far from the only Kremlin media outlet being laundered. As major elections approach in the European Union and the United States, Russian disinformation operatives have honed their strategies. Recent videos featuring synthetic voices and other signs of manipulation by artificial intelligence targeted right-wing American voters with fake messages about President Biden. Fake news organizations crafted by Russian operatives have mimicked actual American outlets while promoting Kremlin propaganda; one former sheriff's deputy in Florida who received political asylum in Moscow has built more than 160 such fake sites.
Photograph RT, which the U.S. says is a key player in the Kremlin's propaganda apparatus, has been banned in the European Union, Canada and other countries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MISHA FRIEDMAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Social networks; Researchers; Propaganda; False information; Arrest warrants; Elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Russia; United States--US; Canada; Ukraine

Company / organization: Name: European Commission; NAICS: 928120; Name: German Marshall Fund of the US; NAICS: 541720; Name: Department of State; NAICS: 928120; Name: RT America; NAI CS: 516120; Name: European Union; NAICS: 926110, 928120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/30/business/media/russia-rt-disinformation-europe-ban.html

Title: Sites Host Propaganda From Russia:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 31, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3062320006

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sites-host-propaganda-russia/docview/3062320006/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Maybe It Can Also Replace Your C.E.O.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Streitfeld, David

Publication info: Streitfeld, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/maybe-can-also-replace-your-c-e-o/docview/3060953997/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Chief executives are vulnerable to the same forces buffeting their employees. Leadership is important, but so is efficiency -- and cost-cutting.
As artificial intelligence programs shake up the office, potentially making millions of jobs obsolete, one group of perpetually stressed workers seems especially vulnerable.
These employees analyze new markets and discern trends, both tasks a computer could do more efficiently. They spend much of their time communicating with colleagues, a laborious activity that is being automated with voice and image generators. Sometimes they must make difficult decisions -- and who is better at being dispassionate than a machine?
Finally, these jobs are very well paid, which means the cost savings of eliminating them is considerable.
The chief executive is increasingly imperiled by A.I., just like the writer of news releases and the customer service representative. Dark factories, which are entirely automated, may soon have a counterpart at the top of the corporation: dark suites.
This is not just a prediction. A few successful companies have begun to publicly experiment with the notion of an A.I. leader, even if at the moment it might largely be a branding exercise.
A.I. has been hyped as the solution to all corporate problems for about 18 months now, ever since OpenAI rolled out ChatGPT in November 2022. Silicon Valley put $ 29 billion last year into generative A.I. and is selling it hard. Even in its current rudimentary form, A.I. that mimics human reasoning is finding a foothold among distressed companies with little to lose and lacking strong leadership.
"In struggling companies, you'll be replacing operational management first but probably keep a few humans to think beyond the machines," said Saul J. Berman, a former senior consulting partner with IBM. Overall, he said, "the change delivered by A.I. in corporations will be as great or greater at the higher strategic levels of management as the lower ranks."
Chief executives themselves seem enthusiastic about the prospect -- or maybe just fatalistic.
EdX, the online learning platform created by administrators at Harvard and M.I.T. that is now a part of publicly traded 2U Inc., surveyed hundreds of chief executives and other executives last summer about the issue. Respondents were invited to take part and given what edX called "a small monetary incentive" to do so.
The response was striking. Nearly half -- 47 percent -- of the executives surveyed said they believed "most" or "all" of the chief executive role should be completely automated or replaced by A.I. Even executives believe executives are superfluous in the late digital age.
When Anant Agarwal, the founder of edX and a former director of M.I.T.'s Computer Science and A.I. Lab, first saw the 47 percent, his initial response was that the executives should be saying something else entirely.
"My first instinct is they would say, 'Replace all the employees but not me,"' he said. "But I thought more deeply and would say 80 percent of the work that a C.E.O. does can be replaced by A.I."
That includes writing, synthesizing, exhorting the employees. More subtly, A.I. -- if it reaches any of the levels its salespeople are promising -- will democratize the job of top management even while scaling it back.
"There used to be a curve of people who were good with numerical skills and those who were not," Mr. Agarwal said. "Then the calculator came along and was the great equalizer. I believe A.I. will do the same thing for literacy. Everybody could be C.E.O."
Working for the robots has been a long time coming, at least in the realm of popular culture. Perhaps the first use of the phrase "robot-boss" was in 1939 in a story by David C. Cooke in a pulp magazine called simply Science Fiction. It was not an empowering tale of mentorship and mutual support.
"Remember," the robot-boss says, "my photon gun will shoot faster than you can run, so don't try to get away."
Many science fiction stories and movies followed that portrayed the human-machine relationship in an equally dark light. Nevertheless, real people seemed to perversely warm to the idea. In a 2017 survey of 1,000 British workers commissioned by an online accounting firm, 42 percent said they would be "comfortable" taking orders from a computer.
Long before the current A.I. boom, Jack Ma, then the chief executive of the Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba, predicted that in 30 years "a robot will likely be on the cover of Time magazine as the best C.E.O." He pointed out that robots were quicker and more rational than humans, and were not driven by emotions like anger.
The Chinese online game company NetDragon Websoft, which has 5,000 employees, appointed what it calls an "A.I.-driven rotating C.E.O." named Tang Yu in 2022. "We believe A.I. is the future of corporate management," said the company's founder, Dejian Liu, adding that it was part of NetDragon's move into the "metaverse-based working community."
Tang Yu, who is personified as a woman, does not appear on an online chart of NetDragon's management team, but the company announced last month that she had won "the coveted title of 'China's Best Virtual Employee of the Year"' at the China Digital Human Industry Forum. Another executive picked up the award for her. NetDragon's A.I. employee team is in charge of performance evaluations and mentoring, among other duties, the company says.
On the other side of the world, the upscale Polish rum company Dictador announced in November that it had an A.I. humanoid C.E.O., Mika. She proclaimed on LinkedIn that she was "devoid of personal bias, ensuring unbiased and strategic choices that prioritize the organization's best interests."
Executives with the National Association of Chief Executive Officers might have something to say about this trend -- if only to deny it -- but its website does not list any actual human beings affiliated with the group. A message sent through a "contact us" prompt received no reply.
A.I. experts, the human kind, cautioned that we are still at the beginning of any transition but said this is a natural progression.
"We've always outsourced effort. Now we're outsourcing intelligence," said Vinay Menon, who leads the global A.I. practice at the consultant Korn Ferry. He warned that "while you may not need the same number of leaders, you will still need leadership."
For one thing, humans provide accountability in a way that machines do not. "A.I. may be exploited by some as a way to shield folks from having to take fiduciary responsibility," said Sean Earley, a managing director of the executive consulting firm Teneo. "At what point does it become culpable for a mistake?"
"Never" was the position one company took in court recently. A customer brought a case against Air Canada for declining to give the bereavement fare reduction that a chatbot on the airline's site had promised. The customer took his complaint to a small claims tribunal. Air Canada argued in its defense that it cannot be held liable for information provided by one of its agents, servants or representatives -- including a chatbot.
The judge ruled against the airline and in favor of the passenger in February, but the specter of a company's arguing that its own A.I. could not be trusted did not bode well for A.I. management teams. Air Canada declined to comment.
Much of the discussion over the last year about A.I. in the workplace has revolved around how rank-and-file employees are at risk unless they incorporate new technology into their jobs -- without, of course, letting their jobs become A.I. Automation historically puts workers at risk even as it benefits investors and managers.
Now the tables are turned. Researchers speculate that automation on the executive level could even help lower-level workers.
"Someone who is already quite advanced in their career and is already fairly self-motivated may not need a human boss anymore," said Phoebe V. Moore, professor of management and the futures of work at the University of Essex Business School. "In that case, software for self-management can even enhance worker agency."
The pandemic prepared people for this. Many office workers worked from home in 2020, and quite a few still do, at least several days a week. Communication with colleagues and executives is done through machines. It's just a small step to communicating with a machine that doesn't have a person at the other end of it.
"Some people like the social aspects of having a human boss," Ms. Moore said. "But after Covid, many are also fine with not having one."
Photograph Anant Agarwal, the founder of edX and a former director of M.I.T.'s Computer Science and A.I. Lab, said, "Everybody could be C.E.O." (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Workers; Computer science; Employees; Employment; Executives; Science fiction & fantasy; Robots; Leadership; Automation; Cost control; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Employees Employment Executives Leadership Automation Cost control

Location: China

People: Anant Agarwal

Company / organization: Name: Air Canada; NAICS: 481111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/28/technology/ai-chief-executives.html

Title: Maybe It Can Also Replace Your C.E.O.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 29, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3060953997

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/maybe-can-also-replace-your-c-e-o/docview/3060953997/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

If AI Can Do Your Job, Maybe It Can Also Replace Your CEO

Author: Streitfeld, David

Publication info: Streitfeld, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/if-ai-can-do-your-job-maybe-also-replace-ceo/docview/3061284413/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — As artificial intelligence programs shake up the office, potentially making millions of jobs obsolete, one group of perpetually stressed workers seems especially vulnerable.
These employees analyze new markets and discern trends, both tasks a computer could do more efficiently. They spend much of their time communicating with colleagues, a laborious activity that is being automated with voice and image generators. Sometimes they must make difficult decisions — and who is better at being dispassionate than a machine?
Finally, these jobs are very well paid, which means the cost savings of eliminating them is considerable.
The CEO is increasingly imperiled by AI, just like the writer of news releases and the customer service representative. Dark factories, which are entirely automated, may soon have a counterpart at the top of the corporation: dark suites.
This is not just a prediction. A few successful companies have begun to publicly experiment with the notion of an AI leader, even if at the moment it might largely be a branding exercise.
AI has been hyped as the solution to all corporate problems for about 18 months now, ever since OpenAI rolled out ChatGPT in November 2022. Silicon Valley put $29 billion last year into generative AI and is selling it hard. Even in its current rudimentary form, AI that mimics human reasoning is finding a foothold among distressed companies with little to lose and lacking strong leadership.
“In struggling companies, you’ll be replacing operational management first but probably keep a few humans to think beyond the machines,” said Saul J. Berman, a former senior consulting partner with IBM. Overall, he said, “the change delivered by AI in corporations will be as great or greater at the higher strategic levels of management as the lower ranks.”
CEOs themselves seem enthusiastic about the prospect — or maybe just fatalistic.
EdX, the online learning platform created by administrators at Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology that is now a part of publicly traded 2U Inc., surveyed hundreds of CEOs and other executives last summer about the issue. Respondents were invited to take part and given what edX called “a small monetary incentive” to do so.
The response was striking. Nearly half — 47% — of the executives surveyed said they believed “most” or “all” of the CEO role should be completely automated or replaced by AI. Even executives believe executives are superfluous in the late digital age.
When Anant Agarwal, the founder of edX and a former director of MIT’s Computer Science and AI Lab, first saw the 47%, his initial response was that the executives should be saying something else entirely.
“My first instinct is they would say, ‘Replace all the employees but not me,’” he said. “But I thought more deeply and would say 80% of the work that a CEO does can be replaced by AI.”
That includes writing, synthesizing, exhorting the employees. More subtly, AI — if it reaches any of the levels its salespeople are promising — will democratize the job of top management even while scaling it back.
“There used to be a curve of people who were good with numerical skills and those who were not,” Agarwal said. “Then the calculator came along and was the great equalizer. I believe AI will do the same thing for literacy. Everybody could be CEO.”
Working for the robots has been a long time coming, at least in the realm of popular culture. Perhaps the first use of the phrase “robot-boss” was in 1939 in a story by David C. Cooke in a pulp magazine called simply Science Fiction. It was not an empowering tale of mentorship and mutual support.
“Remember,” the robot-boss says, “my photon gun will shoot faster than you can run, so don’t try to get away.”
Many science fiction stories and movies followed that portrayed the human-machine relationship in an equally dark light. Nevertheless, real people seemed to perversely warm to the idea. In a 2017 survey of 1,000 British workers commissioned by an online accounting firm, 42% said they would be “comfortable” taking orders from a computer.
Long before the current AI boom, Jack Ma, then the CEO of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba, predicted that in 30 years “a robot will likely be on the cover of Time magazine as the best CEO.” He pointed out that robots were quicker and more rational than humans, and were not driven by emotions like anger.
Chinese online game company NetDragon Websoft, which has 5,000 employees, appointed what it calls an “AI-driven rotating CEO” named Tang Yu in 2022. “We believe AI is the future of corporate management,” said the company’s founder, Dejian Liu, adding that it was part of NetDragon’s move into the “metaverse-based working community.”
Tang Yu, who is personified as a woman, does not appear on an online chart of NetDragon’s management team, but the company announced last month that she had won “the coveted title of ‘China’s Best Virtual Employee of the Year’” at the China Digital Human Industry Forum. Another executive picked up the award for her. NetDragon’s AI employee team is in charge of performance evaluations and mentoring, among other duties, the company says.
On the other side of the world, upscale Polish rum company Dictador announced in November that it had an AI humanoid CEO, Mika. She proclaimed on LinkedIn that she was “devoid of personal bias, ensuring unbiased and strategic choices that prioritize the organization’s best interests.”
Executives with the National Association of Chief Executive Officers might have something to say about this trend — if only to deny it — but its website does not list any actual human beings affiliated with the group. A message sent through a “contact us” prompt received no reply.
AI experts, the human kind, cautioned that we are still at the beginning of any transition but said this is a natural progression.
“We’ve always outsourced effort. Now we’re outsourcing intelligence,” said Vinay Menon, who leads the global AI practice at the consultant Korn Ferry. He warned that “while you may not need the same number of leaders, you will still need leadership.”
For one thing, humans provide accountability in a way that machines do not. “AI may be exploited by some as a way to shield folks from having to take fiduciary responsibility,” said Sean Earley, a managing director of the executive consulting firm Teneo. “At what point does it become culpable for a mistake?”
“Never” was the position one company took in court recently. A customer brought a case against Air Canada for declining to give the bereavement fare reduction that a chatbot on the airline’s site had promised. The customer took his complaint to a small claims tribunal. Air Canada argued in its defense that it cannot be held liable for information provided by one of its agents, servants or representatives — including a chatbot.
The judge ruled against the airline and in favor of the passenger in February, but the specter of a company’s arguing that its own AI could not be trusted did not bode well for AI management teams. Air Canada declined to comment.
Much of the discussion over the past year about AI in the workplace has revolved around how rank-and-file employees are at risk unless they incorporate new technology into their jobs — without, of course, letting their jobs become AI. Automation historically puts workers at risk even as it benefits investors and managers.
Now the tables are turned. Researchers speculate that automation on the executive level could even help lower-level workers.
“Someone who is already quite advanced in their career and is already fairly self-motivated may not need a human boss anymore,” said Phoebe V. Moore, professor of management and the futures of work at the University of Essex Business School. “In that case, software for self-management can even enhance worker agency.”
The pandemic prepared people for this. Many office workers worked from home in 2020, and quite a few still do, at least several days a week. Communication with colleagues and executives is done through machines. It’s just a small step to communicating with a machine that doesn’t have a person at the other end of it.
“Some people like the social aspects of having a human boss,” Moore said. “But after COVID, many are also fine with not having one.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Workers; Artificial intelligence; Employees; Employment; Science fiction & fantasy; Robots; Leadership; Automation; Chief executive officers; Cost control; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Artificial intelligence Employees Employment Leadership Automation Chief executive offic ers Cost control

Location: New York; United States--US; China

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Air Canada; NAICS: 481111

Identifier / keyword: Great Britain; Careers And Professions; Robots And Robotics; Coaches And Managers; Workplace Environment; Berman, Saul J; Performance Evaluations (Labor); Artificial Intelligence; Executive Compensation; Massachusetts Institute Of Technology; Enterprise Computing; Appointments And Executive Changes; Harvard University; Massachusetts; Teneo Holdings Llc; Alibaba Group Holding Ltd; Science Fiction; Linkedin Corporation; Canada; E Learning; Telecommuting; International Business Machines Corporation; Air Canada; University Of Essex; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Ma, Jack; Outsourcing; Customer Relations; Decisions And Verdicts; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Edx; Executives And Management (Theory); Openai Labs; Poland; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Business; Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Streitfeld, David

Title: If AI Can Do Your Job, Maybe It Can Also Replace Your CEO

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 28, 2024

Dateline: 2024-05-28T22:16:10Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3061284413

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/if-ai-can-do-your-job-maybe-also-replace-ceo/docview/3061284413/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Musk Ramps Up Anti-Biden Posts on X: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Conger, Kate; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Conger, Kate; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/musk-ramps-up-anti-biden-posts-on-x/docview/3060247588/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The billionaire owner of X has increasingly been using his social media platform to criticize President Biden for his health and immigration policies, according to a New York Times analysis.
Last month, Elon Musk posted on X that President Biden "obviously barely knows what's going on."
"He is just a tragic front for a far left political machine," Mr. Musk wrote. It was the 29th time this year that he had posted about the president on X, formerly known as Twitter, which Mr. Musk bought in 2022.
Mr. Musk has steadily ramped up his criticism of Mr. Biden as the campaign season heats up before the November presidential election. Mr. Musk has posted about Mr. Biden on X at least seven times a month since January, attacking the president for everything from his age to his policies on immigration and health. Before that, he posted about Mr. Biden twice in December and not at all in November, according to a New York Times analysis. In all, Mr. Musk had posted nearly 40 times about Mr. Biden this year, compared with about 30 times for all of last year.
In contrast, Mr. Musk had posted more than 20 times on X this year about former President Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee. In those posts, Mr. Musk defended Mr. Trump, arguing that he is a victim of media and prosecutorial bias in the criminal cases that the former president faces.
Mr. Musk's posts about this year's presidential race stand out because he is signaling a willingness to tip the political scales as the owner of an influential social media platform, something that no other leader of a social media firm has done. And Mr. Musk exerts outsize influence over the political discourse on X, where he regularly posts to his 184 million followers.
Mark Zuckerberg, Meta's founder, has shied away from endorsing candidates and rarely posts political content on Facebook or Instagram. Satya Nadella, Microsoft's chief, and Sundar Pichai, Google's chief, have also not posted political commentary on their companies' social media platforms, LinkedIn and YouTube.
Bhaskar Chakravorti, the dean of global business at the Fletcher School at Tufts University, said Mr. Musk's outspokenness on his political views could have consequences.
"He has ownership and the largest follower base, and he is a much-larger-than-life character with almost godlike status" on one of the largest platforms for political discussion, Mr. Chakravorti said. "If he was to really come out and support a candidate and put his weight against it, it could have an impact."
The White House, the Biden campaign, Mr. Musk and X did not respond to requests for comment.
By bringing an ideological bent to X, Mr. Musk mirrors what media moguls like Rupert Murdoch, whose empire includes Fox News and The New York Post, have done by helping shape their outlets' coverage and broader political discourse, said Sarah Kreps, a professor and director of the Tech Policy Institute at Cornell University.
Mr. Murdoch "has a particular ideological valence and most people know what that is, and that permeates through his different media outlets," she said. "People can opt into those or opt out," similar to X. Some users -- put off by Mr. Musk's ideological bent -- have migrated to competing social media platforms, she said.
Still, Mr. Musk is unlikely to tip November's vote, social media experts said. Many of his followers already agree with his political stance, they said, and the platform has shifted right since his acquisition.
Mr. Musk has become more publicly supportive of right-wing candidates and views in recent years. As recently as 2022, he described himself as a centrist and a reluctant Democrat. He said he voted for Mr. Biden hesitantly in 2020. Political giving records show that Mr. Musk has not made national campaign contributions since 2020, when he gave to Republican and Democratic Senate candidates.
But in June 2022, Mr. Musk said he had voted for a Republican candidate for the first time in a special election for Texas' 34th Congressional District. In the national midterm elections that November, he urged voters to vote Republican in congressional races since a Democrat was in the White House.
That evolution continued last May when Mr. Musk hosted a buggy audio stream on X to announce and endorse Florida's governor, Ron DeSantis, for the Republican presidential nomination. Mr. Musk has not made another endorsement.
Mr. Musk has also repeatedly used X to vocally support right-wing politicians around the world, including Javier Milei, the president of Argentina; Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil; and Narendra Modi of India. He has then tried to use that good will to lobby for advantages in those countries for his other businesses, including SpaceX, a rocket company, and Tesla, which makes electric cars.
Mr. Musk has courted Mr. Trump, who was booted from X when it was still known as Twitter, after the Jan. 6, 2021, riot at the Capitol. After buying Twitter in 2022, Mr. Musk moved quickly to restore Mr. Trump's account, although the former president has posted only once on the platform since then.
Even though Mr. Musk has not endorsed Mr. Trump, he has had several conversations with the former president. In March, Mr. Musk and Republican donors met with Mr. Trump in Palm Beach, Fla., as the former president sought election donations.
Afterward, Mr. Musk posted on X that he was "not donating money to either candidate for US President."
Mr. Musk has been sympathetic to Mr. Trump in his posts. "The more unfair the attacks on Trump seem to the public, the higher he will rise in the polls," Mr. Musk wrote last week.
Mr. Musk has long been critical of Mr. Biden. In 2021, the billionaire slammed Mr. Biden for his decisions on electric vehicle promotion and subsidies, most of which favored unionized U.S. auto manufacturers. Tesla, where Mr. Musk is chief executive, has resisted efforts to unionize its manufacturing.
"My preference for the 2024 presidency is someone sensible and centrist," Mr. Musk posted in November 2022, weeks after buying Twitter -- and just as he brought Mr. Trump back onto the platform. He added that he had been hopeful about the Biden administration, but was "disappointed so far."
In January, Mr. Musk ramped up his critiques of Mr. Biden. He posted seven times about the president that month, primarily regarding immigration policies, just as the Biden administration sued Texas over a law that allowed local law enforcement to arrest migrants.
"I cannot see myself voting for Biden," Mr. Musk said, accusing the president of "facilitating illegal immigration."
In February, Mr. Musk said Mr. Biden supported lax immigration restrictions because they would give him and the Democratic Party an advantage in the November election.
"Biden's strategy is very simple: 1. Get as many illegals in the country as possible. 2. Legalize them to create a permanent majority -- a one-party state," Mr. Musk wrote. As the number of people crossing into the United States has reached record levels, Mr. Biden has called for a stricter crackdown on immigration and accused Republicans of stymieing his efforts.
Since then, Mr. Musk has escalated his commentary on Mr. Biden, posting 12 times in March and complaining the media is a "Biden cheering squad."
Last month, at a dinner party in Los Angeles, Mr. Musk along with other billionaires, including Mr. Murdoch and the venture capitalist Peter Thiel, discussed how to oppose Mr. Biden's re-election, according to a person familiar with the event, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive matters. The dinner was earlier reported by Puck.
During an interview with the former CNN host Don Lemon in March, Mr. Musk said that he would continue voicing his opinion but didn't want "to put a thumb on the scale monetarily that is significant," and that he might endorse a candidate during "the final stretch."
"I'm leaning away from Biden," he said, laughing.
Photograph Elon Musk exerts outsize influence over the political discourse on X, where he regularly posts to his 184 million followers. In January, Mr. Musk increased his critiques of President Biden, posting seven times about the president that month. He has escalated his commentary about Mr. Biden since then. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS; CHERISS MAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Immigration policy; Ideology; Politics; Electric vehicles; Social networks; Campaign contributions; State elections; Presidential elections; Candidates; Congressional elections; Endorsements

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Texas; New York; United States--US

People: Musk, Elon; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/24/technology/elon-musk-x-biden.html

Title: Musk Ramps Up Anti-Biden Posts on X:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 27, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3060247588

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/musk-ramps-up-anti-biden-posts-on-x/docview/3060247588/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Elon Musk Ramps Up Anti-Biden Posts on X

Author: Conger, Kate; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Conger, Kate; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elon-musk-ramps-up-anti-biden-posts-on-x/docview/3060202164/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Last month, Elon Musk posted on the social platform X that President Joe Biden “obviously barely knows what’s going on.”
“He is just a tragic front for a far left political machine,” Musk wrote. It was the 29th time this year that he had posted about the president on X, formerly known as Twitter, which Musk bought in 2022.
Musk has steadily ramped up his criticism of Biden as the campaign season heats up before the November presidential election. Musk has posted about Biden on X at least seven times a month since January, attacking the president for everything from his age to his policies on immigration and health. Before that, he posted about Biden twice in December and not at all in November, according to a New York Times analysis. In all, Musk had posted nearly 40 times about Biden this year, compared with about 30 times for all of last year.
In contrast, Musk had posted more than 20 times on X this year about former President Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee. In those posts, Musk defended Trump, arguing that he is a victim of media and prosecutorial bias in the criminal cases that the former president faces .
Musk’s posts about this year’s presidential race stand out because he is signaling a willingness to tip the political scales as the owner of an influential social media platform, something that no other leader of a social media firm has done. And Musk exerts outsize influence over the political discourse on X, where he regularly posts to his 184 million followers.
Mark Zuckerberg, Meta’s founder, has shied away from endorsing candidates and rarely posts political content on Facebook or Instagram. Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief, and Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief, have also not posted political commentary on their companies’ social media platforms, LinkedIn and YouTube.
Bhaskar Chakravorti, the dean of global business at the Fletcher School at Tufts University, said Musk’s outspokenness on his political views could have consequences.
“He has ownership and the largest follower base, and he is a much-larger-than-life character with almost godlike status” on one of the largest platforms for political discussion, Chakravorti said. “If he was to really come out and support a candidate and put his weight against it, it could have an impact.”
The White House, the Biden campaign, Musk and X did not respond to requests for comment.
By bringing an ideological bent to X, Musk mirrors what media moguls such as Rupert Murdoch, whose empire includes Fox News and The New York Post, have done by helping shape their outlets’ coverage and broader political discourse, said Sarah Kreps, a professor and director of the Tech Policy Institute at Cornell University.
Murdoch “has a particular ideological valence and most people know what that is, and that permeates through his different media outlets,” she said. “People can opt into those or opt out,” similar to X. Some users — put off by Musk’s ideological bent — have migrated to competing social media platforms, she said.
Still, Musk is unlikely to tip November’s vote, social media experts said. Many of his followers already agree with his political stance, they said, and the platform has shifted right since his acquisition.
Musk has become more publicly supportive of right-wing candidates and views in recent years. As recently as 2022, he described himself as a centrist and a reluctant Democrat. He said he voted for Biden hesitantly in 2020. Political giving records show that Musk has not made national campaign contributions since 2020, when he gave to Republican and Democratic Senate candidates.
But in June 2022, Musk said he had voted for a Republican candidate for the first time in a special election for Texas’ 34th Congressional District. In the national midterm elections that November, he urged voters to vote Republican in congressional races since a Democrat was in the White House.
That evolution continued last May when Musk hosted a buggy audio stream on X to announce and endorse Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis for the Republican presidential nomination. Musk has not made another endorsement.
Musk has also repeatedly used X to vocally support right-wing politicians around the world, including Javier Milei, the president of Argentina; Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil; and Narendra Modi of India. He has then tried to use that goodwill to lobby for advantages in those countries for his other businesses, including SpaceX, a rocket company, and Tesla, which makes electric cars.
Musk has courted Trump, who was booted from X when it was still known as Twitter, after the Jan. 6, 2021, riot at the Capitol. After buying Twitter in 2022, Musk moved quickly to restore Trump’s account, although the former president has posted only once on the platform since then.
Even though Musk has not endorsed Trump, he has had several conversations with the former president. In March, Musk and Republican donors met with Trump in Palm Beach, Florida, as the former president sought election donations.
Afterward, Musk posted on X that he was “not donating money to either candidate for US President.”
Musk has been sympathetic to Trump in his posts. “The more unfair the attacks on Trump seem to the public, the higher he will rise in the polls,” Musk wrote last week.
Musk has long been critical of Biden. In 2021, he slammed Biden for his decisions on electric vehicle promotion and subsidies, most of which favored unionized U.S. auto manufacturers. Tesla, where Musk is CEO, has resisted efforts to unionize its manufacturing.
“My preference for the 2024 presidency is someone sensible and centrist,” Musk posted in November 2022, weeks after buying Twitter — and just as he brought Trump back onto the platform. He added that he had been hopeful about the Biden administration, but was “disappointed so far.”
In January, Musk ramped up his critiques of Biden. He posted seven times about the president that month, primarily regarding immigration policies, just as the Biden administration sued Texas over a law that allowed local law enforcement to arrest migrants.
“I cannot see myself voting for Biden,” Musk said, accusing the president of “facilitating illegal immigration.”
In February, Musk said Biden supported lax immigration restrictions because they would give him and the Democratic Party an advantage in the November election.
“Biden’s strategy is very simple: 1. Get as many illegals in the country as possible. 2. Legalize them to create a permanent majority — a one-party state,” Musk wrote. As the number of people crossing into the United States has reached record levels, Biden has called for a stricter crackdown on immigration and accused Republicans of stymieing his efforts.
Since then, Musk has escalated his commentary on Biden, posting 12 times in March and complaining the media is a “Biden cheering squad.”
Last month, at a dinner party in Los Angeles, Musk along with other billionaires, including Murdoch and venture capitalist Peter Thiel, discussed how to oppose Biden’s reelection, according to a person familiar with the event, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive matters. The dinner was earlier reported by Puck.
During an interview with former CNN host Don Lemon in March, Musk said that he would continue voicing his opinion but didn’t want “to put a thumb on the scale monetarily that is significant,” and that he might endorse a candidate during “the final stretch.”
”I’m leaning away from Biden," he said, laughing.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Immigration policy; Ideology; Politics; Electric vehicles; Social networks; Campaign contributions; Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Candidates; Congressional elections; Endorsements

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Texas; New York; United States--US; Florida

People: Musk, Elon; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Florida; Linkedin Corporation; Thiel, Peter A; Instagram Inc; Newspapers; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Desantis, Ron; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Immigration And Emigration; Primaries And Caucuses; Senate; Endorsements; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Presidential Election Of 2020; Elections; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; Elections, House Of Representatives; Palm Beach County (Fla); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Lobbying And Lobbyists; Nadella, Satya; Google Inc; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Social Media; Presidential Election Of 2024; X (Formerly Twitter); Presidents And Presidency (Us); United States Politics And Government; Texas; Lemon, Don; Federal State Relations (Us); Organized Labor; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); E Commerce; Law And Legislation; Tufts University; News And News Media; Cnn; Milei, Javier; Pichai, Sundar; YoutubeCom; Midterm Elections (2022); Facebook Inc; Brazil; Democratic Party; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Factories And Manufacturing; Polls And Public Opinion; Federal Aid (Us); Illegal Immigration; Republican Party; Fox News Channel; Media; United States International Relations; Bolsonaro, Jair (1955 ); Kreps, Sarah E; India; Storming Of The Us Capitol (Jan, 2021); Palm Beach (Fla); Cornell University; Television; Meta Platforms Inc; Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; New York Post; Business; Colleges And Universities; Microsoft Corp; Campaign Finance; Fringe Groups And Movements; New York Times; Modi, Narendra; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Age, Chronological; Murdoch, Rupert

Title: Elon Musk Ramps Up Anti-Biden Posts on X

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 26, 2024

Dateline: 2024-05-26T22:00:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3060202164

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elon-musk-ramps-up-anti-biden-posts-on-x/docview/3060202164/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Turbulence in 'Fairy Tale' Life Of Running Mate for Kennedy: [National Desk]

Author: Grind, Kirsten

Publication info: Grind, Kirsten. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/turbulence-fairy-tale-life-running-mate-kennedy/docview/3058399806/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Nicole Shanahan, a lawyer who was married to Sergey Brin, a Google founder, led a rarefied and sometimes turbulent life in Silicon Valley, according to a Times examination.
When Robert F. Kennedy Jr. was considering potential running mates for his presidential run, his shortlist was initially topped by two well-known men with unusual résumés: Aaron Rodgers, the N.F.L. quarterback and frequent purveyor of conspiracy theories, and Jesse Ventura, the former governor of Minnesota and professional wrestler known as "The Body."
Instead, Mr. Kennedy made a surprise pick -- a woman and a little-known figure with an unusual background: Nicole Shanahan.
Ms. Shanahan, 38, a onetime Silicon Valley lawyer, has never held public office and has scant name recognition. But she was selected after Mr. Rodgers and Mr. Ventura fell through as vice-presidential candidates and Mr. Kennedy's campaign needed money to fund its efforts to get onto state ballots, three people familiar with the events said. And money was something that Ms. Shanahan could provide in abundance.
Ms. Shanahan has a fortune of more than $ 1 billion that stems largely from her divorce settlement last year with Sergey Brin, a founder of Google, whose net worth exceeds $ 145 billion, three people with knowledge of her finances said. During their five-year marriage, Ms. Shanahan partied with Silicon Valley's elite and used recreational drugs including cocaine, ketamine and psychedelic mushrooms, according to eight people and documents reviewed by The New York Times. Ms. Shanahan and Mr. Brin separated after she had a sexual encounter with Elon Musk in 2021, three of the people said.
The incidents were part of a rarefied -- and sometimes turbulent -- life that Ms. Shanahan led in the nation's tech capital before her turn to politics, according to interviews with more than 20 people who know her or were briefed on her actions, as well as property records, court documents, tax records, emails and other messages reviewed by The Times. Many of the details of her life, including those of her divorce settlement, have not been reported.
"Status is very important to Nicole, and the amount of money you have," said Daniel Morris, a photographer based in Puerto Rico who was friends with Ms. Shanahan and her first husband, Jeremy Kranz, a technology investor.
On the campaign trail, Ms. Shanahan has depicted herself as a hardworking former entrepreneur and lawyer, a success story who once needed food stamps and a unifier who can heal a divided America. But she has omitted and embellished parts of her history, including aspects of her relationship with Mr. Brin, to make herself appear more relatable, according to the people who know her and documents reviewed by The Times.
In a February interview with The Times, Ms. Shanahan described herself as a onetime "Silicon Valley princess." In response to questions for this article, she texted: "I'm shocked the NYT is letting you run something like this." The Kennedy campaign didn't respond to requests for comment. Ms. Shanahan has publicly denied having an affair with Mr. Musk.
Mr. Musk, his lawyer and a spokeswoman for Mr. Brin did not return requests for comment.
Mr. Kennedy, who is running as an independent, picked Ms. Shanahan without his advisers having looked fully into her history or where her money was coming from, two people familiar with the campaign said. By then, she had already become a crucial financier of his run.
Ms. Shanahan, who has said she is a vaccine skeptic like Mr. Kennedy, funded a Super Bowl ad for Mr. Kennedy this year through a $ 4 million donation to a super PAC, American Values 2024. In March, she infused Mr. Kennedy's campaign with an additional $ 2 million. Last week, she said she had given an additional $ 8 million.
Their ticket has secured a place on the presidential ballot in Michigan, a swing state, as well as in five other states. Mr. Kennedy has enough signatures to reach the ballot in seven additional states, his campaign has said, potentially putting him and Ms. Shanahan in a position to tip the November election.
Ms. Shanahan is "exactly the right person," Mr. Kennedy said when he announced her as his running mate in March. He called her a "fierce warrior mom" who "overcame every daunting obstacle and went on to achieve the highest levels of the American dream."
A Yoga Festival
On the campaign trail, Ms. Shanahan, who grew up in Oakland, Calif., has said she knew what it was like to be "one misfortune away from disaster. "
Her father, Shawn Shanahan, couldn't hold down a job, was diagnosed with bipolar schizophrenia when she was 9 years old and died in 2014, she has said. Her family struggled, Ms. Shanahan has said, needing food stamps and government assistance.
Ms. Shanahan obtained an athletic scholarship to attend Saint Mary's College High School, a private Catholic school in Berkeley, Calif., according to the Kennedy campaign website. The school, which charges about $ 24,000 a year for tuition, confirmed that Ms. Shanahan had been a student but said it had never offered scholarships. Ms. Shanahan received some tuition assistance, the school said, but it declined to say how much.
Ms. Shanahan graduated from the University of Puget Sound in 2007, working at a Seattle law firm around the same time. She later worked at RPX, a patent firm, and in 2013, she founded ClearAccess IP, a patent tech company, according to her LinkedIn profile. She completed a law degree at the Santa Clara University School of Law in 2014.
Adam Philipp, the founder and managing partner of Aeon Law, the Seattle law firm where Ms. Shanahan worked, said he was impressed when she applied to be a paralegal in 2006. "She had a willingness to learn and an abundance of common sense," he said.
In 2011, Ms. Shanahan began dating Mr. Kranz, a tech investor in San Francisco. She told people that she had converted to Judaism during that time for the relationship. Mr. Kranz bought a $ 2.7 million penthouse with views of San Francisco about a month before their wedding in August 2014, according to property records.
That July, Ms. Shanahan met Mr. Brin at a yoga festival in Lake Tahoe, Calif., four people with knowledge of the events said. He had recently separated from Anne Wojcicki, his wife at the time. Mr. Brin and Ms. Shanahan embarked on an affair weeks before her wedding to Mr. Kranz, the people said.
Mr. Kranz discovered the relationship several days after he married Ms. Shanahan when he saw texts between her and Mr. Brin on her phone, they said. He filed to annul the marriage 27 days after the wedding, court records show.
Mr. Kranz planned to list fraud as a reason for the annulment, the people said. But Ms. Shanahan was concerned that a fraud claim would jeopardize her ability to practice law. While negotiating with Mr. Kranz about their split, she threatened to harm herself, three people said.
Instead of an annulment, Mr. Kranz agreed to a divorce without making a fraud claim. As part of their settlement, Ms. Shanahan was required to remove any evidence of Mr. Kranz from her social media accounts and pay him $ 20,000 in partial wedding costs and legal fees, court records show. Mr. Kranz did not respond to a request for comment.
In an interview with People magazine last year, Ms. Shanahan said she started dating Mr. Brin in 2015. She recounted wandering Stanford University's campus with the billionaire and discussing quantum physics.
"I was living in a fairy tale," she said. "It was magical."
Becoming a Philanthropist
Mr. Brin became Ms. Shanahan's entryway to the tech industry's upper echelons. The couple traveled the world, took trips on Mr. Brin's yachts and stayed in the most elite camps at Burning Man, the countercultural annual festival in the Nevada desert.
They married in 2018 and had a daughter, Echo, that same year. They owned properties in Lake Tahoe; Los Altos, Calif.; Montana; and Malibu, Calif., where Ms. Shanahan now spends much of her time.
In 2019, Ms. Shanahan began building a foundation, Bia-Echo, named for her daughter, that focuses on criminal justice and fertility longevity. (Ms. Shanahan has said she struggled to become pregnant.) She used more than $ 20 million from Mr. Brin for the effort, according to tax documents.
To raise her profile, Ms. Shanahan hired Matthew Hiltzik, a publicist who has worked with Katie Couric and other high-profile women. Her goal was to become a famous philanthropist like MacKenzie Scott, the former wife of the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, four people familiar with Ms. Shanahan's plans said.
In 2020, Ms. Shanahan sold ClearAccess IP to IPwe, a patent technology firm, in exchange for IPwe stock that was valued at more than $ 10 million, two people familiar with the deal said. IPwe filed for bankruptcy this year.
Around the time of the sale, Ms. Shanahan and Mr. Brin learned that Echo was autistic. Ms. Shanahan has said the diagnosis made her question the use of childhood vaccines. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says childhood vaccines are safe.
In 2021, she paid more than $ 200,000 for a lifestyle photographer to take her photos for a San Francisco Magazine article called "Nicole Shanahan Is Fighting the Good Fight," according to documents viewed by The Times. Ms. Shanahan was photographed in the country with horses, talking about her goals of creating a healthy and livable planet.
In the article, Ms. Shanahan said she had been sexually assaulted by an unnamed male co-worker while working for RPX. The episode caused her to sink into a severe depression and ultimately give up law, she said.
Daniel McCurdy, the chief executive of RPX, said in a statement that the company hadn't been informed of the claim before the article was published, and that it had engaged a law firm to conduct an investigation. It was inconclusive, he said.
A Marriage Crumbles
Mr. Brin and Ms. Shanahan found the coronavirus pandemic lockdowns challenging, three people close to the couple said. Among other things, they struggled with their daughter's autism diagnosis, the people said.
Ms. Shanahan began going out more without Mr. Brin, according to five people and documents viewed by The Times. At a party in early 2021 in Miami, Ms. Shanahan was so intoxicated by drugs and alcohol that she required an IV infusion, the documents show.
That fall, Ms. Shanahan threw a Studio 54-themed birthday party for herself at a New York club. Mr. Musk, a longtime friend of Mr. Brin's, attended. In December 2021, Ms. Shanahan saw Mr. Musk again at a private party in Miami that his brother, Kimbal Musk, was hosting in connection with the Art Basel festival.
At that party, Elon Musk and Ms. Shanahan took ketamine, a popular party drug that is legal with a prescription, and disappeared together for several hours, according to four people briefed on the event and documents related to it. Ms. Shanahan later told Mr. Brin that she had had sex with Mr. Musk, three of the people said. She also relayed the details to friends, family and advisers.
Mr. Brin and Ms. Shanahan separated about two weeks after the party, and he filed for divorce the next year, citing "irreconcilable differences," according to court documents.
In 2022, The Wall Street Journal reported Ms. Shanahan's encounter with Mr. Musk. Mr. Musk and Ms. Shanahan have denied an affair.
In her interview with People last year, Ms. Shanahan said she and Mr. Musk had been talking about her daughter's autism treatment that night. She also said it was humiliating to be known for a sexual act and called a cheater.
Ms. Shanahan and Mr. Brin took nearly 18 months to reach a divorce settlement, according to court records. During that time, she threatened to harm herself, two people briefed on the matter said. Their divorce became final last year.
Into Politics
For years, Ms. Shanahan donated to Democrats, according to donor filings. In 2020, she gave $ 25,000 to a political action committee backing President Biden. Then last year, she gave $ 6,600 to Mr. Kennedy -- the maximum allowed for an individual contributor -- when he was running as a Democrat for the presidential nomination.
In her February interview with The Times, Ms. Shanahan said she had initially been disappointed when Mr. Kennedy announced that he would run as an independent. But she began to pour money into his campaign, including the Super Bowl ad, which showed images of Mr. Kennedy superimposed on those of the 1960 presidential campaign of his uncle John F. Kennedy. At the time, Ms. Shanahan had spoken to Mr. Kennedy once and had never met him, she said.
In March, Ms. Shanahan and her new partner, Jacob Strumwasser, met Mr. Kennedy and his wife, Cheryl Hines, for dinner. During the meal, Mr. Strumwasser, who has worked in the crypto industry, suggested Ms. Shanahan for the vice president's job, she said in a podcast this month with Sage Steele, a former ESPN anchor. Mr. Kennedy liked Ms. Shanahan's story, people familiar with the campaign said.
In recent weeks, Ms. Shanahan has largely scrubbed her social media feeds, two people familiar with her and the Kennedy campaign said. Her social accounts are now populated with shots of herself without makeup at a farmers' market as well as wearing Western gear and posing with rifles in Texas with Mr. Strumwasser. In the past, her feeds showed her dressed up for high-end events and posing for selfies.
Ms. Shanahan began attending campaign events with Mr. Kennedy this month. At a fund-raiser in Nashville last week, she announced that she had given another $ 8 million to the campaign and said, "I think I know what they're going to say -- they're going to say Bobby only picked me for my money."
Her remark drew laughter from the crowd.
Rebecca Davis O'Brien contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Rebecca Davis O'Brien contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Photograph Nicole Shanahan, a lawyer, has a fortune of over $ 1 billion. (A1); Nicole Shanahan, a philanthropist, has stepped into the spotlight as Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s vice-presidential candidate. She has donated millions to the campaign. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Sergey Brin, left, a founder of Google, and Ms. Shanahan in Mountain View, Calif., in 2019. Elon Musk, above, who leads Tesla and SpaceX saw Ms. Shanahan at parties in 2021. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ETIENNE LAURENT/AFP, VIA GETTY IMAGES; KATE MUNSCH/REUTERS); Ms. Shanahan has never held public office and has scant name recognition. But she was selected after Aaron Rodgers and Jesse Ventura fell through, and Mr. Kennedy's campaign needed money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORDAN VONDERHAAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Weddings; Marriage; Food stamps; Divorce; Law firms; Tuition; State elections; Festivals; Fraud

Business indexing term: Subject: Law firms

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; Lake Tahoe; San Francisco California

People: Brin, Sergey; Shanahan, Nicole

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/22/technology/nicole-shanahan-rfk-jr-vp.html

Title: Turbulence in 'Fairy Tale' Life Of Running Mate for Kennedy:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 23, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3058399806

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/turbulence-fairy-tale-life-running-mate-kennedy/docview/3058399806/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Compan y May 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

‘Silicon Valley Princess’: Inside the Life of Nicole Shanahan, RFK Jr.’s Running Mate

Author: Grind, Kirsten

Publication info: Grind, Kirsten. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-princess-inside-life-nicole/docview/3058328117/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
OAKLAND, Calif. — When Robert F. Kennedy Jr. was considering potential running mates for his presidential run, his shortlist was initially topped by two well-known men with unusual resumes: Aaron Rodgers, the NFL quarterback and frequent purveyor of conspiracy theories, and Jesse Ventura, the former governor of Minnesota and professional wrestler known as “The Body.”
Instead, Kennedy made a surprise pick — a woman and a little-known figure with an unusual background: Nicole Shanahan.
Shanahan, 38, a onetime Silicon Valley lawyer, has never held public office and has scant name recognition. But she was selected after Rodgers and Ventura fell through as vice-presidential candidates and Kennedy’s campaign needed money to fund its efforts to get onto state ballots, three people familiar with the events said. And money was something that Shanahan could provide in abundance.
Shanahan has a fortune of more than $1 billion that stems largely from her divorce settlement last year with Sergey Brin, a founder of Google, whose net worth exceeds $145 billion, three people with knowledge of her finances said. During their five-year marriage, Shanahan partied with Silicon Valley’s elite and used recreational drugs including cocaine, ketamine and psychedelic mushrooms, according to eight people and documents reviewed by The New York Times. Shanahan and Brin separated after she had a sexual encounter with Elon Musk in 2021, three of the people said.
The incidents were part of a rarefied — and sometimes turbulent — life that Shanahan led in the nation’s tech capital before her turn to politics, according to interviews with more than 20 people who know her or were briefed on her actions, as well as property records, court documents, tax records, emails and other messages reviewed by the Times. Many of the details of her life, including those of her divorce settlement, have not been reported.
“Status is very important to Nicole, and the amount of money you have,” said Daniel Morris, a photographer based in Puerto Rico who was friends with Shanahan and her first husband, Jeremy Kranz, a technology investor.
On the campaign trail, Shanahan has depicted herself as a hardworking former entrepreneur and lawyer, a success story who once needed food stamps and a unifier who can heal a divided America. But she has omitted and embellished parts of her history, including aspects of her relationship with Brin, to make herself appear more relatable, according to the people who know her and documents reviewed by the Times.
In a February interview with the Times, Shanahan described herself as a onetime “Silicon Valley princess.” In response to questions for this article, she texted: “I’m shocked the NYT is letting you run something like this.” The Kennedy campaign didn’t respond to requests for comment. Shanahan has publicly denied having an affair with Musk.
Musk, his lawyer and a spokesperson for Brin did not return requests for comment.
Kennedy, who is running as an independent, picked Shanahan without his advisers having looked fully into her history or where her money was coming from, two people familiar with the campaign said. By then, she had already become a crucial financier of his run.
Shanahan, who has said she is a vaccine skeptic like Kennedy, funded a Super Bowl ad for Kennedy this year through a $4 million donation to a super political action committee, American Values 2024. In March, she infused Kennedy’s campaign with an additional $2 million. Last week, she said she had given an additional $8 million.
Their ticket has secured a place on the presidential ballot in Michigan, a swing state, as well as in five other states. Kennedy has enough signatures to reach the ballot in seven additional states, his campaign has said, potentially putting him and Shanahan in a position to tip the November election.
Shanahan is “exactly the right person,” Kennedy said when he announced her as his running mate in March. He called her a “fierce warrior mom” who “overcame every daunting obstacle and went on to achieve the highest levels of the American dream.”
A Yoga Festival
On the campaign trail, Shanahan, who grew up in Oakland, California, has said she knew what it was like to be “one misfortune away from disaster. ”
Her father, Shawn Shanahan, couldn’t hold down a job, was diagnosed with bipolar schizophrenia when she was 9 years old and died in 2014, she has said. Her family struggled, Shanahan has said, needing food stamps and government assistance.
Shanahan obtained an athletic scholarship to attend Saint Mary’s College High School, a private Catholic school in Berkeley, California, according to the Kennedy campaign website. The school, which charges about $24,000 a year for tuition, confirmed that Shanahan had been a student but said it had never offered scholarships. Shanahan received some tuition assistance, the school said, but it declined to say how much.
Shanahan graduated from the University of Puget Sound in 2007, working at a Seattle law firm around the same time. She later worked at RPX, a patent firm, and in 2013, she founded ClearAccess IP, a patent tech company, according to her LinkedIn profile. She completed a law degree at the Santa Clara University School of Law in 2014.
Adam Philipp, the founder and managing partner of Aeon Law, the Seattle law firm where Shanahan worked, said he was impressed when she applied to be a paralegal in 2006. “She had a willingness to learn and an abundance of common sense,” he said.
In 2011, Shanahan began dating Kranz, a tech investor in San Francisco. She told people that she had converted to Judaism during that time for the relationship. Kranz bought a $2.7 million penthouse with views of San Francisco about a month before their wedding in August 2014, according to property records.
That July, Shanahan met Brin at a yoga festival in Lake Tahoe, California, four people with knowledge of the events said. He had recently separated from Anne Wojcicki, his wife at the time. Brin and Shanahan embarked on an affair weeks before her wedding to Kranz, the people said.
Kranz discovered the relationship several days after he married Shanahan when he saw texts between her and Brin on her phone, they said. He filed to annul the marriage 27 days after the wedding, court records show.
Kranz planned to list fraud as a reason for the annulment, the people said. But Shanahan was concerned that a fraud claim would jeopardize her ability to practice law. While negotiating with Kranz about their split, she threatened to harm herself, three people said.
Instead of an annulment, Kranz agreed to a divorce without making a fraud claim. As part of their settlement, Shanahan was required to remove any evidence of Kranz from her social media accounts and pay him $20,000 in partial wedding costs and legal fees, court records show. Kranz did not respond to a request for comment.
In an interview with People magazine last year, Shanahan said she started dating Brin in 2015. She recounted wandering Stanford University’s campus with the billionaire and discussing quantum physics.
“I was living in a fairy tale,” she said. “It was magical.”
Becoming a Philanthropist
Brin became Shanahan’s entryway to the tech industry’s upper echelons. The couple traveled the world, took trips on Brin’s yachts and stayed in the most elite camps at Burning Man, the countercultural annual festival in the Nevada desert.
They married in 2018 and had a daughter, Echo, that same year. They owned properties in Lake Tahoe; Los Altos, California; Montana; and Malibu, California, where Shanahan now spends much of her time.
In 2019, Shanahan began building a foundation, Bia-Echo, named for her daughter, that focuses on criminal justice and fertility longevity. (Shanahan has said she struggled to become pregnant.) She used more than $20 million from Brin for the effort, according to tax documents.
To raise her profile, Shanahan hired Matthew Hiltzik, a publicist who has worked with Katie Couric and other high-profile women. Her goal was to become a famous philanthropist like MacKenzie Scott, the former wife of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, four people familiar with Shanahan’s plans said.
In 2020, Shanahan sold ClearAccess IP to IPwe, a patent technology firm, in exchange for IPwe stock that was valued at more than $10 million, two people familiar with the deal said. IPwe filed for bankruptcy this year.
Around the time of the sale, Shanahan and Brin learned that Echo was autistic. Shanahan has said the diagnosis made her question the use of childhood vaccines. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says childhood vaccines are safe.
In 2021, she paid more than $200,000 for a lifestyle photographer to take her photos for a San Francisco Magazine article called “Nicole Shanahan Is Fighting the Good Fight,” according to documents viewed by the Times. Shanahan was photographed in the country with horses, talking about her goals of creating a healthy and livable planet.
In the article, Shanahan said she had been sexually assaulted by an unnamed male co-worker while working for RPX. The episode caused her to sink into a severe depression and ultimately give up law, she said.
Daniel McCurdy, the chief executive of RPX, said in a statement that the company hadn’t been informed of the claim before the article was published, and that it had engaged a law firm to conduct an investigation. It was inconclusive, he said.
A Marriage Crumbles
Brin and Shanahan found the coronavirus pandemic lockdowns challenging, three people close to the couple said. Among other things, they struggled with their daughter’s autism diagnosis, the people said.
Shanahan began going out more without Brin, according to five people and documents viewed by the Times. At a party in early 2021 in Miami, Shanahan was so intoxicated by drugs and alcohol that she required an IV infusion, the documents show.
That fall, Shanahan threw a Studio 54-themed birthday party for herself at a New York club. Musk, a longtime friend of Brin’s, attended. In December 2021, Shanahan saw Musk again at a private party in Miami that his brother, Kimbal Musk, was hosting in connection with the Art Basel festival.
At that party, Elon Musk and Shanahan took ketamine, a popular party drug that is legal with a prescription, and disappeared together for several hours, according to four people briefed on the event and documents related to it. Shanahan later told Brin that she had had sex with Musk, three of the people said. She also relayed the details to friends, family and advisers.
Brin and Shanahan separated about two weeks after the party, and he filed for divorce the next year, citing “irreconcilable differences,” according to court documents.
In 2022, The Wall Street Journal reported Shanahan’s encounter with Musk. Musk and Shanahan have denied an affair.
In her interview with People last year, Shanahan said she and Musk had been talking about her daughter’s autism treatment that night. She also said it was humiliating to be known for a sexual act and called a cheater.
Shanahan and Brin took nearly 18 months to reach a divorce settlement, according to court records. During that time, she threatened to harm herself, two people briefed on the matter said. Their divorce became final last year.
Into Politics
For years, Shanahan donated to Democrats, according to donor filings. In 2020, she gave $25,000 to a political action committee backing President Joe Biden. Then last year, she gave $6,600 to Kennedy — the maximum allowed for an individual contributor — when he was running as a Democrat for the presidential nomination.
In her February interview with the Times, Shanahan said she had initially been disappointed when Kennedy announced that he would run as an independent. But she began to pour money into his campaign, including the Super Bowl ad, which showed images of Kennedy superimposed on those of the 1960 presidential campaign of his uncle John F. Kennedy. At the time, Shanahan had spoken to Kennedy once and had never met him, she said.
In March, Shanahan and her new partner, Jacob Strumwasser, met Kennedy and his wife, Cheryl Hines, for dinner. During the meal, Strumwasser, who has worked in the crypto industry, suggested Shanahan for the vice president’s job, she said in a podcast this month with Sage Steele, a former ESPN anchor. Kennedy liked Shanahan’s story, people familiar with the campaign said.
In recent weeks, Shanahan has largely scrubbed her social media feeds, two people familiar with her and the Kennedy campaign said. Her social accounts are now populated with shots of herself without makeup at a farmers’ market as well as wearing Western gear and posing with rifles in Texas with Strumwasser. In the past, her feeds showed her dressed up for high-end events and posing for selfies.
Shanahan began attending campaign events with Kennedy this month. At a fundraiser in Nashville, Tennessee, last week, she announced that she had given another $8 million to the campaign and said, “I think I know what they’re going to say — they’re going to say Bobby only picked me for my money.”
Her remark drew laughter from the crowd.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Weddings; Vaccines; Marriage; Food stamps; Divorce; Law firms; Tuition; State elections; Festivals; Fraud

Business indexing term: Subject: Law firms

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; California; Lake Tahoe; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Espn; Weddings And Engagements; Bezos, Mackenzie; Shanahan, Nicole (1985 ); Malibu (Calif); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Alcohol Abuse; Inventions And Patents; Western States (Us); Couric, Katie; Physics; Political Advertising; Kennedy, Robert F Jr; Puget Sound; Hines, Cheryl; Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Rodgers, Aaron; Mental Health And Disorders; United States; Super Bowl; Linkedin Corporation; Nevada; Centers For Disease Control And Prevention; Bankruptcies; Santa Clara University; Careers And Professions; Brin, Sergey; Elections; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; Scott, Mackenzie; California; Photography; Yoga; Lake Tahoe (Nev); Seattle (Wash); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); College Athletics; Bezos, Jeffrey P; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Records And Achievements; Puerto Rico; Adultery; Ventura, Jesse; Autism; Social Media; Google Inc; Exercise; National Football League; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Presidential Election Of 2024; Political Action Committees; Studio 54; University Of Minnesota; Texas; Divorce, Separations And Annulments; Michigan; Women And Girls; Roman Catholic Church; Conspiracy Theories; AmazonCom Inc; Scholarships And Fellowships; Wall Street Journal; Federal State Relations (Us); Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Sex Crimes; Vaccination And Immunization; Computers And The Internet; Alternative And Complementary Medicine; Frauds And Swindling; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); News And News Media; Legal Profession; Ventura County (Calif); Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; Berkeley (Calif); Marriages; Psychedelic And Hallucinogenic Drugs; Education (K 12); San Francisco (Calif); New York State; Minnesota; People (Magazine); Cooking And Cookbooks; Private And Sectarian Schools; Newspapers; Third Party Politics (Us); Nashville (Tenn); Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Stanford University; United States International Relations; Montana; Disabilities; Kennedy, Robert Francis; Magazines; Sex; Silicon Valley (Calif); Television; Aeon (Magazine); Children And Childhood; Travel And Vacations; Football; High Net Worth Individuals; Compensation For Damages (Law); Kennedy, John Fitzgerald; Ventura (Calif); Intellectual Disabilities; Wrestling; Birthdays; Tuition; Colleges And Universities; Oakland (Calif); Drug Abuse And Traffic; Campaign Finance; New York Times

Title: ‘Silicon Valley Princess’: Inside the Life of Nicole Shanahan, RFK Jr.’s Running Mate

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 22, 2024

Dateline: 2024-05-22T21:38:27Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3058328117

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-princess-inside-life-nicole/docview/3058328117/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

BlackRock Mulls Future Without Fink: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Farrell, Maureen

Publication info: Farrell, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/blackrock-mulls-future-without-fink/docview/3056559931/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Investors in the world's biggest asset manager are asking how much more room it has to grow and who will drive that growth once its chief executive retires.
Laurence D. Fink built BlackRock into the world's largest asset manager with a steely grip, a thick skin and a cleareyed vision of what the company could become.
Today, it's a caretaker of $ 10.5 trillion of investor money and a provider of sophisticated trading technology, and Mr. Fink has been an informal financial adviser to many governments, including the United States. Along the way, he has withstood criticism from lawmakers on both sides -- and even the independent presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy Jr. -- about BlackRock's policies and politics.
He has also earned the adulation of its shareholders.
But Mr. Fink's age -- he is 71 -- and BlackRock's enormous size, which makes it ever harder to find new assets to manage, are clouds on the horizon. They were on investors' minds this week at BlackRock's annual shareholder meeting, as they listened to Mr. Fink talk about the company's performance and voted on ballot issues.
One of the greatest concerns is succession. Mr. Fink, BlackRock's chief executive and chairman, exerts an unusual level of control for someone leading a firm of its size, with nearly 20,000 employees. From writing LinkedIn posts defending BlackRock's policies to personally finding key deals, he has put his stamp all over the company, which he co-founded in 1988.
Because of Mr. Fink's all-in approach, the question of who will take over from him has become important, despite a deep bench of talent and several potential successors. It has become even more pertinent because some shareholders are unsure about how much growth BlackRock has ahead of it.
"It's really hard for anyone to argue that Larry hasn't done a great job with the company," said Craig Siegenthaler, an analyst at Bank of America who covers BlackRock. "They've outperformed the industry and grown a lot over every single time period." But Mr. Siegenthaler added that the "Larry Fink question" was a key one.

Asked about the concerns, BlackRock pointed to past public statements on the matter. At last year's shareholder meeting, for example, Mr. Fink said, "BlackRock's board and I have no higher priority than developing the next generational leaders."

Since the beginning of 2023, BlackRock has added $ 365 billion in new assets and the market value of its assets has increased by more than $ 1 trillion. Although its results have been buoyed by a bull market -- the S&P 500 stock index has risen about 38 percent over the same term -- investors have handsomely rewarded the company's performance. Shares of BlackRock, which has a market capitalization of about $ 120 billion, have risen roughly 14 percent.
BlackRock has kept growing even as several state pension funds, largely in states with Republican-controlled legislatures, have said they would pull money from it because of Mr. Fink's comments and writings urging corporations to consider environmental, social and governance, or E.S.G., goals in their work. In March, the Texas Permanent School Fund said it would withdraw $ 8.5 billion.
Mr. Fink has stepped away from such statements in the past year; at a conference in 2023, he said he had stopped using the term E.S.G. because politicians had "weaponized" it.
BlackRock has gotten more "tactical in their messaging," said Christopher Allen, an analyst at Citigroup. "It's been more subdued."
Still, in a Republican presidential primary debate in December, Vivek Ramaswamy called Mr. Fink "the king of the woke industrial complex, the E.S.G. movement."
BlackRock's core business is managing money for clients -- both big institutions and individuals. It is the world's largest provider of low-cost index funds through its iShares platform, after its 2009 purchase of Barclays Global Investors for $ 13.5 billion.
Additionally, BlackRock's technology platform, Aladdin, provides trading and risk-measurement services for financial portfolios, not only to BlackRock clients but also to rivals like Vanguard and State Street and other major companies.
"Being big is hard on some level," Mr. Siegenthaler said. All asset managers see clients withdraw money, but because BlackRock is so large, not only does it need to replenish assets, but it must do so far in excess of what was withdrawn, he said.
BlackRock has consistently said its assets represent only a small fraction -- or about 4 percent -- of the roughly $ 230 trillion in the world's investable assets. The company has also said it can keep expanding because of its business mix. Vanguard and State Street, its two closest competitors, manage roughly $ 9 trillion and $ 4 trillion.
In January, BlackRock announced plans to buy Global Infrastructure Partners for about $ 12.5 billion, which would be its largest acquisition since the Barclays deal. The deal would allow BlackRock to expand into what it sees as a big area of growth -- infrastructure investing. The target company is one of the largest global financiers of building or rebuilding airports, bridges, tunnels and even green energy projects.
The Global Infrastructure Partners deal is also an example of how closely Mr. Fink drives BlackRock's business, using his deep network from a decades-long Wall Street career and even scouting for merger targets and negotiating transactions personally, according to two people with knowledge of the deal who were not authorized to speak publicly. They pointed to the fact that Mr. Fink had worked with the chief executive and chairman of Global Infrastructure Partners, Bayo Ogunlesi, at the investment bank First Boston before founding BlackRock.
Mr. Fink is the main -- and in some cases only -- point of contact for top world leaders and finance chiefs, including on occasion the Federal Reserve chair, Jerome Powell, according to three people familiar with Mr. Fink's discussions and public records. Current and former associates said he was regularly on the phone or in face-to-face meetings with key political and economic figures, sharing insights and information on world events.
Mr. Fink is also heavily involved in many aspects of BlackRock's messaging to the outside world, whether it's writing his annual letter to chief executives or choosing to respond directly on LinkedIn to Republican criticisms of BlackRock during the December debate.
"BlackRock is a one-man show," said Giuseppe Bivona, a co-founder and co-chief investment officer of Bluebell Capital, a small London-based activist investor. Mr. Bivona's firm has agitated for change at BlackRock, questioning both the large size of its 17-member governing board and Mr. Fink's close ties to the firm's directors. At the annual meeting, BlackRock shareholders voted down a Bluebell proposal that called for Mr. Fink to step away from the chairman role.
To assuage shareholders, BlackRock has regularly highlighted the rest of its senior executives. Mr. Fink, who said he would step down as chief executive and chairman in a few years, has said that there's no clear successor but that several executives could step into his seats. BlackRock's president, Rob Kapito, a co-founder who runs the firm with Mr. Fink, is 67.
The speculation is so rampant that current and former BlackRock employees have betting pools with wagers on Mr. Fink's potential replacements. Two senior executives -- Rob Goldstein and Mark Wiedman -- are considered the most likely successors.
Mr. Goldstein, the chief operating officer, oversaw the growth of Aladdin. Mr. Wiedman, the head of the global client business, was known for building out the company's iShares business. Both command wide leads in those pools.
Mr. Fink and BlackRock's board members have also discussed two other executives -- Martin Small, the chief financial officer, and Rachel Lord, head of international -- as possible successors, a person close to BlackRock said. In the past two years, the company announced expanded roles for both Mr. Small and Ms. Lord.
At least one potential successor to Mr. Fink recently left. Salim Ramji, who was global head of iShares and index investments, was appointed this week as the next chief executive of Vanguard.
Photograph Laurence D. Fink, 71, has built BlackRock into a manager of $ 10.5 trillion in assets since co-founding the company in 1988. (B2) This article appeared in print on page B1, B2.

Subject: Election results; Investments; Infrastructure; Presidential elections; Stockholders; Shareholder meetings; Investors; Acquisitions & mergers

Business indexing term: Subject: Infrastructure Stockholders Shareholder meetings Acquisitions & mergers

People: Fink, Laurence D

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Global Infrastructure Partners; NAICS: 523910; Name: BlackRock Inc; NAICS: 523940, 525910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/18/business/blackrock-larry-fink-future.html

Title: BlackRock Mulls Future Without Fink:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 20, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3056559931

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/blackrock-mulls-future-without-fink/docview/3056559931/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Army Officer Resigns Post Over Israel: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Ismay, John

Publication info: Ismay, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/army-officer-resigns-post-over-israel/docview/3054316659/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: While assigned to the Defense Intelligence Agency, Maj. Harrison Mann said he was enabling policies that violated his conscience.
An Army officer assigned to the Defense Intelligence Agency has resigned in protest over the United States' support for Israel, which he said had "enabled and empowered" the killing of Palestinian civilians.
The officer, Maj. Harrison Mann, announced his resignation and explained his reasons for leaving the service in a post on the social media site LinkedIn on Monday. According to his biography on the site, he has specialized in the Middle East and Africa for about half of his 13-year career and previously served at the U.S. Embassy in Tunis.
"The policy that has never been far from my mind for the past six months is the nearly unqualified support for the government of Israel, which has enabled and empowered the killing and starvation of tens of thousands of innocent Palestinians," Major Mann wrote in the post, which noted that he had emailed his comments to co-workers on April 16. "This unconditional support also encourages reckless escalation that risks wider war."
Reached by phone on Monday, Major Mann confirmed that he was the author of the post but declined to comment further, referring questions to the D.I.A.'s office of corporate communications.
It is unclear whether other military officers have resigned in protest of U.S. foreign policy since the deadly Hamas-led attacks in Israel in October ignited the war, but the resignation of an active-duty officer in protest of U.S. foreign policy is most likely uncommon -- especially one in which the officer makes public the reasons for doing so.
A spokeswoman for the Army was not immediately able to confirm whether other officers had resigned for similar reasons since the war began.
As the death toll in Gaza has risen, the Biden administration has faced waves of internal dissent for supporting Israel in the war. In October, Josh Paul, a State Department official in the bureau that oversees arms transfers, resigned in protest of the administration's decision to continue sending weapons to Israel.
Major Mann said that he had planned to leave the Army "at some point" but that the Gaza war led him to submit his resignation in November and leave his assignment at the D.I.A. early.
Lt. Col. Ruth Castro, an Army spokeswoman, said his request was approved on Jan. 8 and would become effective on June 3.
According to his LinkedIn profile, Major Mann became an infantry officer after receiving his commission in 2011, then studied at the Army's John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center in North Carolina and qualified as a civil affairs officer in 2016. About three years later, his biography states, he became a foreign area officer specializing in the Middle East.
Regional specialists are often posted at American embassies and may serve as defense attachés, who act as high-level liaisons between the Pentagon and the host nation's military. Attachés also are trained to evaluate requests for weapons and training from foreign powers and make recommendations to State Department officials as to whether proving such aid is necessary and in line with federal laws on protecting human rights.
In his note, Major Mann said he had continued to carry out his duties at the Defense Intelligence Agency without voicing his concerns, hoping that the war would soon be over.
"I told myself my individual contribution was minimal, and that if I didn't do my job, someone else would, so why cause a stir for nothing?" he wrote.
"My work here -- however administrative or marginal it appeared -- has unquestionably contributed to that support," his post said. "The past months have presented us with the most horrific and heartbreaking images imaginable -- sometimes playing on the news in our own spaces -- and I have been unable to ignore the connection between those images and my duties here. This caused me incredible shame and guilt."
"At some point -- whatever the justification -- you're either advancing a policy that enables the mass starvation of children, or you're not," he added.
"I know that I did, in my small way, wittingly advance that policy," the major wrote. "And I want to clarify that as the descendant of European Jews, I was raised in a particularly unforgiving moral environment when it came to the topic of bearing responsibility for ethnic cleansing."
Photograph Maj. Harrison Mann This article appeared in print on page A8.

Subject: War; Resignations; Diplomatic & consular services; Intelligence services; Foreign policy; Military officers

Business indexing term: Subject: Resignations

Location: Middle East; Gaza Strip; United States--US; Israel

Company / organization: Name: Defense Intelligence Agency; NAICS: 928110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/13/us/army-officer-resigns-gaza-israel.html

Title: Army Officer Resigns Post Over Israel:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 14, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3054316659

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/army-officer-resigns-post-over-israel/docview/3054316659/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3051253593/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: FOOD
Shares of Tyson Foods Fall
On Worries Over Demand
Tyson Foods shares were down over 7 percent in afternoon trading on Monday after the Arkansas-based meatpacker warned that consumers were under pressure from persistent inflation and that high commodity costs could weigh on upcoming results.
Tyson reported second-quarter sales that fell short of analysts' estimates, though profits surpassed expectations.
Third-quarter results could be weaker than the fourth quarter due to performance in Tyson's pork and prepared foods divisions, the chief executive Donnie King said on a call. Shares fell 7.9 percent after tumbling earlier by more than 9 percent.
"FQ3 is typically the strongest from a seasonal perspective," said Arun Sundaram, analyst with CFRA Research. "The outlook was viewed as a disappointment."
"Uncertainties remain around consumer strength and behavior," Chief Financial Officer John R. Tyson said. Reuters
AVIATION
Spirit Airlines Predicts Profit Loss in 2nd Quarter
Spirit Airlines on Monday forecast a loss in the second quarter as its earnings continue to reel from the grounding of a number of its aircraft as well as bloated industry capacity in key markets.
Its shares were down 10 percent in afternoon trading.
The ultralow-cost carrier has been losing money despite booming travel demand, raising questions about its ability to manage debt that is due to mature in 2025 and 2026. The company said it has had "constructive" discussions with its bond holders and aims to have a resolution this summer.
Spirit is among the carriers hardest hit by a snag with RTX's Pratt & Whitney Geared Turbofan engines, which is expected to ground 40 of its aircraft this year, leaving the airline overstaffed and driving up operating costs. In 2025, the situation is projected to get worse as the airline estimates to have about 70 jets out of service. Reuters
RESTAURANTS
Former Starbucks C.E.O. Urges Talks With Baristas
Former Starbucks chief executive, Howard Schultz says the company's leaders should spend more time in stores and focus on coffee drinks as they work to turn around flagging sales.
In a LinkedIn post over the weekend, Mr. Schultz said many people had reached out to him after Starbucks reported weaker-than-expected quarterly sales and earnings last week.
The Seattle coffee giant said revenue dropped 2 percent in the January-March period as store traffic slowed around the world. It was the first time since 2020 that the company saw a drop in quarterly revenue.
Mr. Schultz, who bought Starbucks in 1987, is credited with growing the company into the global behemoth.
In his post, Mr. Schultz said senior leaders -- including board members -- need to spend more time talking to baristas in the company's stores. Associated Press
Credit: By Reuters and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Aircraft; Airlines; Coffeehouses

Business indexing term: Subject: Airlines Coffeehouses

Company / organization: Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515; Name: Tyson Foods Inc; NAICS: 311612, 311615; Name: Spirit Airlines LLC; NAICS: 481111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/06/business/07bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 7, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3051253593

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3051253593/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2024

Last updated: 2025-07-28

Database: Global Newsstrea m Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cuts to Team At Tesla Stun E.V. Industry: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cuts-team-at-tesla-stun-e-v-industry/docview/3049098502/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The carmaker dismissed 500 employees in a unit that was critical to its success and seen as important to the future of electric vehicle sales in the United States.
Elon Musk has gutted the part of Tesla responsible for building electric vehicle charging stations, sowing uncertainty about the future of the largest and most reliable U.S. charging network.
The layoffs of about 500 Tesla employees, which many of them posted about on social media on Tuesday, raised questions about deals that Mr. Musk, Tesla's chief executive, struck with the leaders of General Motors, Ford Motor and other automakers last year allowing cars made by other companies to use Tesla Supercharger stations.
Tesla's agreements with other makers of electric cars assured buyers that they would be able to find fast chargers on road trips, addressing one of the main reasons that many people are hesitant to buy such cars. It was also seen as a coup for Mr. Musk, validating Tesla's technology and giving the company outsize influence over the auto industry.
Almost all major manufacturers announced plans to switch the hardware and software in their cars to make them compatible with Tesla's chargers. Ford has been mailing adapters to owners of its older electric vehicles so they can connect to Tesla's chargers.
Mr. Musk said on X, the social media site he owns, that Tesla would slow down construction of new charging stations and increase its "focus on 100% uptime and expansion of existing locations."
On Monday, in an email to employees that was reviewed by The New York Times, Mr. Musk said he would dissolve the "entire group of approximately 500 people" that had worked on building new Supercharger stations. In that message, he said the company would finish stations under construction and build some new ones "where critical."
The abrupt dismissal of the Supercharger team caught many people off guard.
Andrés Pinter, whose company installs chargers for Tesla, said he was stunned Tuesday morning to learn about the layoffs, which included about 20 people he had been in touch with on construction projects. He said emails to those Tesla employees had bounced back with an automated message saying those addresses were no longer valid.
"I see this as a shocking reversal from going all-in on the Supercharger network," said Mr. Pinter, who is co-chief executive of Bullet EV Charging Solutions, which is based in Austin, Texas, where Tesla is also based. Until Tuesday, Mr. Pinter said, Tesla had been pushing Bullet to expand into other states and move as fast possible.
Tesla did not reply to a request for comment. News of the layoffs was reported earlier by The Information.
A spokesman for Ford, Martin Günsberg, said that company's plans had not changed.
Numerous laid-off Tesla employees discussed the job cuts publicly. Mr. Musk "has let our entire charging org go," William Navarro Jameson, a senior manager at Tesla's charging operation, said on X. "What this means for the charging network, NACS, and all the exciting work we were doing across the industry, I don't yet know."
NACS, or the North American Charging Standard, was developed by Tesla and has a reputation for being a reliable and easy-to-use charging technology.
The latest layoffs, two weeks after Tesla said it was firing 14,000 people worldwide, unsettled investors who had been regaining confidence in the company after it reported last week a 55 percent drop in its first quarter profit.
Tesla shares closed about 5 percent lower on Tuesday afternoon, though they are still up around 13 percent since Thursday. Mr. Musk has said in recent weeks that, despite a decline in car sales, Tesla still has enormous growth potential from products based on artificial intelligence and autonomous driving technology.
The charging network is regarded as a key element in Tesla's dominant position in the electric vehicle market. There were hardly any fast chargers when the company began selling the Model S, its first sedan, in 2012. Tesla built its own network of more than 2,600 fast chargers in the United States. They are often the only chargers in many regions.
"You made E.V. adoption possible," George Bahadue, another senior manager at the charging unit, said on LinkedIn in a message to other team members who had also lost their jobs.
By allowing other manufacturers to use the network, Tesla opened up a potentially lucrative source of recurring revenue. But Mr. Musk also took away the exclusive access to the network, which was one of the perks of owning Tesla's cars.
The automaker has been a major beneficiary of federal funds to build charging networks. As other carmakers like Hyundai and Ford have chipped away at Tesla's market share, Mr. Musk may have concluded that it was not in Tesla's interest to build many more charging stations, which would help its rivals sell cars.
Some employees expressed bitterness after the layoffs, raising the risk that the abrupt dismissals could undercut morale among those still at the company.
"If you would have told me a month ago that Tesla was a company that would notify people, some with 10-plus years of experience, who helped build the company to what it is today with nothing more than a 'Dear Employee' email in middle of the night," Lane Chaplin, a former employee of the charging unit, wrote on LinkedIn, "I would have said you're nuts."
Ryan Mac contributed reporting.
Ryan Mac contributed reporting.
Photograph Tesla agreed last year to open up its network of Supercharger stations to electric cars made by other automakers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES ) (B6) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Automobile industry; Layoffs; Employees; Electric vehicles; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Layoffs Employees Social networks

Location: United States--US

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/30/business/tesla-layoffs-supercharger-team.html

Title: Cuts to Team At Tesla Stun E.V. Industry:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 1, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3049098502

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cuts-team-at-tesla-stun-e-v-industry/docview/3049098502/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The High-Powered, and High-Priced, Legal Team Defending Adams: [National Desk]

Author: Fitzsimmons, Emma G

Publication info: Fitzsimmons, Emma G. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/high-powered-priced-legal-team-defending-adams/docview/3048274520/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With Mayor Eric Adams and his top aides facing several investigations, he is amassing a team of high-powered lawyers paid by his donors and city taxpayers.
Not long after Eric Adams became the mayor of New York City, he quickly rewarded a cadre of loyalists with plum jobs in his administration. Now Mr. Adams is casting favor upon a new set of people looking out for his interests: defense lawyers.
A high-powered team from the law firm WilmerHale is representing the mayor in an investigation by prosecutors in the Southern District of New York over potential ties between his campaign and the Turkish government. The firm has already been paid more than $ 730,000 by the mayor's five-month-old legal defense fund.
Mr. Adams intends to bring aboard Randy Mastro, a lawyer known for his aggressive tactics and roster of contentious clients and causes, to represent him as the city's corporation counsel. Mr. Mastro would earn roughly $ 250,000 a year and would replace Sylvia Hinds-Radix, a former judge who has a more reserved style.
Another lawyer known for his high-profile clients and high fees has been hired by the city to represent Mr. Adams in a lawsuit accusing him of sexually assaulting a woman in 1993 when he was a police officer. The lawyer, Alex Spiro, has represented Elon Musk; Jay-Z; the New England Patriots owner, Robert Kraft; and Alec Baldwin.
If Mr. Mastro is nominated and confirmed by the City Council, he is expected to work with Mr. Spiro on the case. Mr. Adams, a Democrat who is running for re-election next year, has repeatedly denied the sexual assault allegations.
In the sexual assault case, the mayor and his legal team have said that he is entitled to legal representation by the city because he was a police officer when the alleged incident took place. The mayor's office, however, could offer no examples of any other retired police officers being represented by the city's top lawyer in an assault case.
The mayor and his legal team nonetheless contend that the city's hiring of Mr. Spiro is one of many examples where the Law Department seeks outside counsel so that city lawyers can focus on other matters, including cases related to the migrant crisis and the troubled Rikers jail complex.
The legal hiring spree is not unprecedented for elected officials in New York. Mayor Adams's predecessor, Bill de Blasio, faced a federal investigation into his fund-raising that cost the city more than $ 10 million for taxpayer-funded defense lawyers.
Former Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who faced several sexual harassment investigations and resigned in 2021, has cost taxpayers at least $ 20 million in legal fees for him and members of his executive staff, according to an analysis in The Times Union of Albany.
No one questions the mayor's right to defend himself, but the questions for voters are whether taxpayers should pay for his defense and whether all of the investigations will sidetrack Mr. Adams from focusing on the city's many pressing challenges, said Basil Smikle, director of the Public Policy Program at Hunter College.
"If you need this much firepower, how problematic are these cases and how much is that going to distract you from governance?" he said.
Liz Garcia, a spokeswoman for the mayor, said that Mr. Adams "remains laser-focused on delivering for the people of New York" and that he would "continue to defer to the corporation counsel and the Law Department for any legal matters."
Several of the mayor's lawyers worked in the Southern District of New York, where Mr. Adams faces the most serious investigation: the federal inquiry into his campaign's ties to the Turkish government. In that investigation, the mayor is being represented by a team at WilmerHale that includes Brendan R. McGuire, a partner in the firm's white-collar defense practice, and another partner, Boyd M. Johnson III.
The mayor's chief counsel, Lisa Zornberg, is a former senior Manhattan federal prosecutor -- a point she made clear at a news conference in November, when questions arose about the Southern District investigation.
"I'm going to jump in here," she interceded. "So many of you know that in addition to being the chief counsel to the mayor and City Hall, I was formerly the chief of the criminal division."
At a news conference last week, Ms. Zornberg praised Mr. Mastro, comparing him to the founding father John Adams. In November, she told reporters that the sexual assault lawsuit had been filed by a "person who according to public records and in her own words is so litigious that she's written a book on how to file lawsuits."
Mr. Spiro's firm has agreed to charge the city a heavily discounted rate of about $ 250 an hour. His aggressive tactics gained attention in his representation of Mr. Musk in a lawsuit in Texas, where his behavior was criticized as "astonishingly unprofessional" by opposing lawyers who have asked a judge to issue sanctions against him. The opposing counsel said that he interrupted and "berated" him. Mr. Spiro accused him of wanting his "15 minutes of fame."
Mr. Mastro and Mr. Spiro are both known for their brash style. Mr. Mastro has tried to halt New York City's congestion pricing plan on behalf of New Jersey and sought to get homeless men removed from a hotel in Manhattan. Mr. Spiro helped Mr. Musk win a defamation suit over a cave rescue effort in Thailand.
Mr. Adams's push to hire Mr. Mastro, a former deputy mayor under Rudolph W. Giuliani, is opposed by the Council's Black, Latino and Asian Caucus. The City Council speaker, Adrienne Adams, told the mayor that Mr. Mastro does not have a majority of votes that he needs to be approved and that the mayor should seek another candidate.
The sexual assault lawsuit was filed against Mr. Adams under the Adult Survivors Act, which provided a one-year window for people to bring lawsuits over sexual assaults that occurred years ago. A woman claimed that Mr. Adams requested oral sex from her in exchange for career help when they worked together at New York City's Transit Police Department. When she refused, he forced her to touch his penis and ejaculated on her, the complaint said.
The plaintiff's lawyer, Megan Goddard, an employment discrimination lawyer who is representing the woman, has said that her client was brave for coming forward and that her firm was comfortable taking on "David and Goliath" cases.
"The truth is the truth, no matter who your lawyer is or how many lawyers you hire," she said in a statement.
The city will also foot the legal bill incurred by one of the mayor's closest aides, Timothy Pearson, who was accused in a lawsuit of sexually harassing a police sergeant. Mr. Pearson is also being investigated over a brawl with security guards at a Manhattan migrant shelter.
The mayor's hires signal a combative legal strategy that could be similar to that of former President Trump and Mr. Cuomo, said Rebecca Roiphe, a professor at New York Law School and a former prosecutor in Manhattan.
"Not conceding anything and really fighting hard is one way that certain lawyers approach certain cases -- sometimes that's very successful and sometimes that blows up in your face," she said.
Some experts have raised concerns over the corporation counsel's representing Mr. Adams in the lawsuit. But John Kaehny, executive director of the watchdog group Reinvent Albany and a frequent critic of Mr. Adams, argued that it was appropriate for the mayor to receive city legal representation, even if it feels unfair for taxpayers to foot the bill.
"There's only one mayor -- that makes the person in that office different from anybody else," he said. "They do get some protections because they have this exposure -- we have real concerns about the politicization of lawsuits against elected officials."
The mayor's legal defense fund has raised more than $ 1 million from donors including Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor, and Elie Tahari, the fashion designer, who each donated $ 5,000. The fund has already returned $ 86,000 in donations, including some from people who do business with the city and are prohibited from donating.
Jeff Sklar, an adviser to business leaders, said he gave the fund $ 5,000 in March after attending a three-hour dinner with Mr. Adams at a restaurant, 432 Park Avenue, in one of the new skyscrapers overlooking Central Park. A hedge fund manager, Barry Feirstein, introduced them, he said, and Mr. Sklar got a photo with Mr. Adams that he posted on LinkedIn.
Mr. Sklar said he supports the mayor's public safety policies and his embrace of the business community.
"Under de Blasio, we were basically ignored," he said.
Photograph Randy Mastro, known for his aggressive tactics, is expected to represent Mr. Adams as the city's corporation counsel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Lisa Zornberg, the chief counsel to Mr. Adams, is a former senior federal prosecutor in the U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Alex Spiro, a lawyer whose clients include Elon Musk, was brought in to help Mr. Adams fend off a sexual assault lawsuit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES); The legal team defending Mayor Eric Adams is paid for by his donors and New York City taxpayers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Councils; Attorneys; Sexual harassment; Fashion designers; Homeless people; Public prosecutors; Press conferences; Donations; Legal defense; Criminal investigations; Sex crimes; Defamation; Public officials

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys Donations

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

People: Adams, Eric; Mastro, Randy M

Company / organization: Name: Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr; NAICS: 541110; Name: US District Court for the Southern District of New York; NAICS: 922110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/29/nyregion/eric-adams-lawyers.html

Title: The High-Powered, and High-Priced, Legal Team Defending Adams:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 30, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3048274520

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/high-powered-priced-legal-team-defending-adams/docview/3048274520/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Aid May Change Momentum in Ukraine: [briefing]

Author: Lopez, German

Publication info: Lopez, German. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-aid-may-change-momentum-ukraine/docview/3043592989/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: How an aid package from the U.S. could affect the war.
You have probably read that the war in Ukraine is a stalemate. But conditions have changed in recent months -- in Russia's favor. It has captured more territory, and it seems likely to launch a larger offensive later this spring or summer. In the meantime, Ukraine's ability to fight back has deteriorated since the U.S. largely stopped sending aid in December.
The $ 60 billion in Ukraine aid that the House passed over the weekend has the potential to change the situation yet again. The Senate is likely to pass the bill in the coming days, and President Biden has signaled that he will sign it.
In today's newsletter, I'll explain how the aid package could affect the war.
Ukraine's needs
American funds will help Ukraine restock two things that have played pivotal roles in the war: artillery shells and antiaircraft munitions.
The war has often revolved around artillery, which are large guns that armies use to fire explosive shells and hit targets from a great distance. Both sides have used artillery to kill troops and destroy tanks and bunkers from miles away, weakening the enemy before an attack. Artillery has also stopped advancing armies.
In recent months, though, Ukraine has started to run out of artillery shells. Russian forces have fired five to 10 times as many shells as Ukraine. "That's just not sustainable," my colleague Eric Schmitt, who covers national security, told me. "Ukraine would eventually have to give up territory and pull back."
Ukraine has also relied on antiaircraft weapons, such as U.S.-made Patriot missiles, that can shoot down planes and missiles. The threat of these weapons has kept Russia from unleashing the full might of its air force, because it fears that Ukraine would destroy its expensive planes. Russia has instead resorted to long-range missiles, and Ukraine has shot down many of them.
But Ukraine had started to run out of those munitions, too. Last week, President Volodymyr Zelensky blamed Ukraine's short supplies for its inability to stop a Russian missile barrage that killed at least 17 people north of Kyiv. "This would not have happened if Ukraine had received enough air defense equipment," Zelensky said.
The new artillery and anti-air munitions will start to arrive in Ukraine just days after the bill becomes law. The $ 60 billion will pay for several months' worth of weapons.
Some of the aid will also go for training. That support will help address another Ukrainian shortage -- in personnel -- by allowing the military to prepare newer recruits for the front lines more quickly. It will also help teach Ukraine's forces how to use some of the advanced weapons they are receiving from Western allies, including Abrams tanks and F-16 jets.
What comes next
Once the aid starts arriving, Ukraine is likely to put it to work on the eastern front, where Russia has recently taken the city of Avdiivka. It could halt Russia's recent progress and prevent much larger advances. Some analysts have worried that an undersupplied Ukraine would struggle to defend the countryside around Kharkiv, the country's second-largest city, after Kyiv, and its remaining territory along the Black Sea coastline.
"With more aid, Ukraine will probably be able to solidify its defenses and keep its most important cities," said my colleague Julian Barnes, who covers intelligence and national security.
If all goes well, Ukraine could launch an offensive campaign in 2025, perhaps to retake territory in the country's east and southeast. One important goal: to drive a wedge between Russia's holdings in the eastern region of the Donbas and the southern peninsula of Crimea.
Ukraine's official goal is to retake all of the Donbas and Crimea. Many experts are skeptical that Ukraine can do that, especially after last year's disappointing counteroffensive. And some critics of the aid package argue that it won't even allow Ukraine to stop Russia's advance. Senator J.D. Vance, an Ohio Republican, says that U.S. manufacturing can't currently keep pace with Russian weapons production. The war simply matters more to Russia than the West, and Russia is dedicating more resources to it, these critics have argued.
Still, most experts believe the additional aid will make a meaningful difference. They worry that an easier Russian victory could encourage it to invade other countries, or encourage China to invade Taiwan, by undermining confidence in the U.S. and its allies.
The most realistic scenario for Ukraine is probably not a return to the prewar borders. The nation would be smaller, but it could retain most of its territory, then integrate itself economically and strategically with Europe. That's a lot better than outright defeat.
For more
Ukraine is building trenches and laying obstacles called dragon's teeth to fend off Russian attacks. These graphics show the defenses.
The Donbas region was an industrial hub for Ukraine. It's now the focal point for Russia's ground offensives.
THE LATEST NEWS
Trump Trial
The opening statements in Donald Trump's criminal trial in New York will be heard today. There is a lot of evidence against him, but a conviction isn't assured.
Two prospective jurors who were excused talked to The Times about their experience. One had his social media posts analyzed.
In a video, a Times court reporter, Kate Christobek, explains what to expect.
Israel-Hamas War
The U.S. is considering sanctions on some Israeli forces in the occupied West Bank. Benjamin Netanyahu said such a move would be "a moral low."
The Israeli military has sent troops to address violence between Jewish settlers and Palestinians in the West Bank, The Wall Street Journal reports.
The head of intelligence for Israel's military resigned after his service's failures before Oct. 7.
Watch a video of one man's journey to collect airdropped aid for his family back in Gaza.
International Reaction
Columbia will hold classes virtually today as pro-Palestinian protests at the school continue, NBC reports. Some Jewish students at the university said they felt unsafe; others rejected that view.
Pro-Palestinian activists plan to protest this year's Democratic convention in Chicago. In 1968, antiwar demonstrations overshadowed the convention -- also in Chicago.
More International News
Armed men attacked voting booths in northeastern India. The election authorities directed officials to redo voting at several polling stations.
Ecuadoreans gave their president more powers to combat drug-related gang violence, a show of support for his hard-line stance.
Torrential rain in southern China caused flooding and forced tens of thousands of people to evacuate.
Spain became the latest European country to end a visa program that offered residency to wealthy foreigners who buy real estate.
Other Big Stories
Bird flu has adapted to infect more mammals. But a human pandemic is by no means inevitable.
Legislators in two dozen states, spurred by teenage girls, are trying to fight deepfake nudes generated by A.I.
Hudson Yards, a New York real estate project, went from a ghost town during the pandemic to an office success story.
A Tennessee Volkswagen plant voted to join the United Automobile Workers. Experts say the union could replicate its victory throughout the South.
Opinions
Planting trees is an Earth Day tradition. Cities forget that the preservation of their mature trees is more important, Margaret Renkl writes.
This Passover, Jews should not only remember their suffering but also channel it toward compassion, both personally and politically, Shai Held writes.
Gail Collins and Bret Stephens discuss Speaker Mike Johnson and Trump's trial.
Here are columns by David French on the differences among Christian movements and Carlos Lozada on the movie "Civil War."
MORNING READS
Journey: Green sea turtles swim hundreds of miles to nest on this West African archipelago.
A manufacturing boon: Ozempic is transforming a small Danish town.
Great outdoors: What to know before you book a trip to a national park this summer.
Car key conversations: Asking older people to give up driving can be painful. Experts offer advice to handle it with empathy.
Metropolitan Diary: Doing that thing her husband hates.
Lives Lived: Terry Anderson was the Beirut bureau chief for The Associated Press when he was kidnapped in 1985 by militants. He spent six years as a hostage. He died at 76.
SPORTS
Running: Peres Jepchirchir of Kenya won the London Marathon in a women's only record time of 2:16:16. Alexander Mutiso Munyao, also from Kenya, won the men's race.
N.B.A.: The Los Angeles Clippers, despite missing Kawhi Leonard, beat the Dallas Mavericks.
Golf: Nelly Korda won the Chevron Championship to earn a fifth win in her last five starts, which ties a record.
ARTS AND IDEAS
Internet scams are everywhere: Strangers send bogus messages on LinkedIn, WhatsApp and Instagram. Deepfakes of celebrities hawk cookware and dental plans. Political donations, employment offers, rental contracts and medical billing can be suspect.
They've gotten so sophisticated, young people are falling for them, too. "Being digitally native doesn't inoculate you," writes the Times reporter Steven Kurutz. "In fact, it makes you a target." Read his story here.
More on culture
Lord Byron's life story has sometimes obscured his poetry. Two hundred years after his death, his work is still worth reading, the author Benjamin Markovits writes.
The Cut lists the conspiracies and Easter eggs hidden in Taylor Swift's new album.
The vegan chef Matthew Kenney runs a holistic wellness empire. His former employees say it is also full of bounced paychecks.
The Rock & Roll Hall of Fame inducted artists including Cher and A Tribe Called Quest.
An original "Star Trek" Enterprise model was discovered on eBay decades after it disappeared around 1979. It has been returned to the son of the series' creator.
THE MORNING RECOMMENDS ...
Try Katharine Hepburn's famous brownie recipe.
Stream these action movies.
Eat at the best restaurants in Austin.
Dress with sophistication.
Locate your keys with a Bluetooth tracker.
Test your home's water quality.
Take our news quiz.
GAMES
Here is today's Spelling Bee. Yesterday's pangram was immunized.
And here are today's Mini Crossword, Wordle, Sudoku, Connections and Strands.
Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you tomorrow. -- German
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox . Reach our team at themorning@nytimes.com .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Invasions; Artillery; Deepfake; National security; Pandemics; Political conventions; Political campaigns; Military supplies; Missiles; Demonstrations & protests; Violent crime; Legal arguments; Gangs; Military aid; Foreign aid

Location: West Bank; Chicago Illinois; Russia; New York; United States--US; Kenya; Israel; Crimea; China; Kyiv Ukraine; Ukraine

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/22/briefing/ukraine-russia-war-us-aid-package.html

Title: How Aid May Change Momentum in Ukraine:   [briefing ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 23, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3043592989

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-aid-may-change-momentum-ukraine/docview/3043592989/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

You're Surrounded by Scammers: [Style Desk]

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/youre-surrounded-scammers/docview/3042293423/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: To own a computer or smartphone -- indeed, to engage with the digital world to any degree -- is to be a mark. You can try to block, encrypt and unsubscribe your way out of it, but you may not succeed.
You open your eyes and grope for your phone. You check your inbox and discover dozens of spam emails that made it past the filter.
Tapping over to Instagram, you find a request for a supposed brand collaboration in your DMs. Your WhatsApp notifications, meanwhile, consist solely of strangers asking you to invest in a cryptocurrency exchange.
A recruiting manager has contacted you through LinkedIn to say they are "impressed with your unique background and journey" and want to discuss "exciting job opportunities" at several Fortune 500 companies.
While scrolling social media on your lunch break, you see Tom Hanks promoting a dental plan and Taylor Swift peddling a cookware giveaway. (Or at least that's what seems to be going on.)
On the way home from work, you receive a text alert from FedEx, with a tracking number and a link to update your delivery preferences -- except you don't remember any pending shipments to your home.
Should you click the link? Pick up that call? Pursue that job opportunity? Is the person who texted you "hey" just now from a number you don't recognize someone you actually know?
Welcome to Scam World, the seedy layer just beneath the world we live in every day. It's cluttered with these bogus text messages, spam calls and phishing attempts.
In Scam World, any engagement with a stranger is a risk. Thanks to spoofing, for example, which cloaks the identity and location of the computer or phone being used, a call could be from a helpful customer service representative or a cyber criminal pretending to be one.
The internet is moving too fast for regulators to keep up with the quickly evolving deceptions.
There are political donation scams, in which someone masquerading as a campaign worker seeks a contribution. There are sextortion scams, in which a person posing as a hacker claims to have recorded you watching porn through your laptop camera. There are medical billing scams, rental scams, employment scams.
Seemingly every facet of daily life now comes with its attendant scam -- even death, when details in online obituaries result in identity theft. And the prospect that we may be deceived at any time "leaves us feeling vulnerable," said Pamela Rutledge, the director of the Media Psychology Research Center in Boston.
"The lack of trust means you're not able to take information at face value," she said. "You've got a heightened state of vigilance."
'Groomed' to Be Scammed
In the early years of digital culture, the border between the real world and the internet was firm. Surfing the web for an hour or two in the evening felt like a hobby separate from the business of everyday life.
Now we carry the internet around in our pockets and rely on it for practically every aspect of daily life. "We are in the computer," said Rachel Tobac, the chief executive of SocialProof Security, a cybersecurity company.
Living our lives online has bred a misplaced but necessary trust. It would be difficult to use TikTok, Uber and Gmail every day while believing that doing so creates a perilous risk. Many people "turn their brains off" when they go about their business on these apps and platforms, Ms. Tobac said, "because it is so stressful to consider that these interactions are potentially harming."
To be sure, there are still plenty of real-world fraudsters and grifters, some of whom -- like Anna Delvey and Sam Bankman-Fried -- have become figures of fascination. But "a digital realm creates a bigger funnel -- at less cost -- for scams," said Cory Doctorow, a journalist and science-fiction author who has written about the web since its early days.
Mr. Doctorow noted that, just as the internet has made routine tasks less burdensome, it has also made scams much easier to pull off. Picture an old-school boiler room in which fast-talking con artists place hundreds of phone calls in an effort to fleece strangers out of their savings, he said. Now fast forward to 2024, when scammers can send out millions of phishing texts and emails with the help of bots.
"If you can automate parts of it," Mr. Doctorow said, "you can cast a much wider net."
Text scams tricked Americans out of $ 300 million in 2022, the Federal Trade Commission reported. That same year, Americans received 225 billion spam texts, a 157 percent increase from the previous year, according to a report by Robokiller, a company that sells a spam-blocker app.
As digitally savvy and cautious as he is, Mr. Doctorow is not immune to phishing.
In December, while vacationing with his family in New Orleans, he got a call from his bank asking if had spent $ 1,000 at an Apple store in New York. In fact, the caller was a scammer who had gotten hold of Mr. Doctorow's phone number and the name of his credit union -- perhaps from one of the many data brokers that collect personal information and sell it to third parties -- and then used spoofing software to appear as his bank on his caller ID.
During the call, Mr. Doctorow gave out the last seven digits of his debit card number -- enough information for the scammer to run up charges on his account.
Sophisticated tech makes this kind of deception possible. But Mr. Doctorow argued that, thanks to outsourcing and automation, the typical communication sent by the customer service departments of many large companies has become "indistinguishable from a phishing scam."
The prevalence of online deceptions can also add a bit of unwanted drama to mundane tasks. Recently, Ms. Rutledge, the psychologist, thought she was being scammed when she received a letter from a government office on "the crappiest letterhead I've ever seen."
"This can't possibly be real," she remembered thinking.
But it was.
As Mr. Doctorow put it, "The legitimate world looks so much like a scam that it's much easier to make a scam look like the legit world."
A Dystopian Present
The science fiction author William Gibson, who coined the term cyberspace, made a hacker the protagonist of his 1984 novel, "Neuromancer," which is set in the 2030s. Some 25 years after he wrote it, he began setting his books not in the distant future but in the present.
The fraught landscape of the 2020s seems especially Gibson-like -- a destabilizing, fatiguing grind in which the very technology we rely on makes us unsure that what we see and hear is real.
Two recent incidents reveal how easy it is to get sucked into Scam World.
In February, a finance worker in Hong Kong was tricked into transferring $ 26 million of his company's money to fraudsters who impersonated his colleagues on a video call. The scam made use of "deepfake" recreations sophisticated enough to make him believe he was speaking with his boss and other staff members. (The phony promotions featuring Tom Hanks and Taylor Swift used similar technology.)
Days after Bloomberg reported on the elaborate scam in Hong Kong, The Cut published a first-person account by Charlotte Cowles headlined "The Day I Put $ 50,000 in a Shoe Box and Handed It to a Stranger."
Toward the start of the story, Ms. Cowles, a financial journalist who has also written for The New York Times, writes that "a polite woman with a vague accent told me she was calling from Amazon customer service to check some unusual activity on my account."
What followed was a psychodrama straight out of Hitchcock: After Ms. Cowles was informed that she was the victim of identity theft, she was transferred to an F.T.C. investigator and then to a C.I.A. agent. She learned that she was being investigated for federal crimes and that her phone was tapped.
The hourslong ordeal -- a drama entirely manufactured by scammers, played out over a phone line -- contained all the ingredients of a modern scam, Ms. Tobac said. "They're spoofing customer service, building authority with sensitive details from data brokerage sites, using urgency and fear and appealing to authority," she said.
The reactions to the story were not universally sympathetic, and Ms. Cowles understood the complaints of critics who found her credulous.
"Certainly before this happened to me, I was someone who didn't think I was vulnerable to scams," she said in an interview.
The numbers belie that reaction, however.
More than 600,000 cases involving impostor scams were reported in the United States last year, costing Americans more than $ 2 billion, according to the F.T.C. The victims included Andy Cohen, the Bravo TV host, who went on NBC's "Today" show in January to warn viewers of how he had lost thousands of dollars to someone posing as a representative from his bank.
Not long ago, online scams were much easier to spot. An elderly person ill at ease with the internet might fall for a clumsy, typo-ridden email asking for cash, but the rest of us were too web-savvy to be duped.
Nowadays, the victims of internet fraud are more likely to be people who grew up online. In 2023, for the first time, 18- to 24-year-olds lost more money to scams than any other age group, according to the Better Business Bureau.
TikTok is rife with Gen Z-ers posting about how they fell for an ad promoting a deal for a trendy mirror, or applied to a fake position on a job site, or had their email hacked by scammers who then hijacked their PayPal account.
Being digitally native doesn't inoculate you; in fact, it makes you a target.
'Politely Paranoid'
Martha McCully describes herself as "a very organized person," and someone who keeps her online passwords in an encrypted vault in Bitwarden. A writer and brand consultant who splits her time between California and New York, Ms. McCully, 63, says she never clicks on a random link.
"How do I know you're Chase?" Ms. McCully asked the woman who called her last December.
She had received a text from her bank, asking if she had spent $ 2,400 at Walmart. When she replied no, her phone immediately rang. The caller ID listed the number as "Chase Debit Card" on her screen, since Ms. McCully had put the number on the back of her card into her contacts.
By now, you know where this is going.
Ms. McCully stayed on the phone with a woman supposedly from Chase for more than two hours, time enough for the scammer to drain her account of $ 50,000 through wire transfers. In a diabolical maneuver, the woman was also spoofing Ms. McCully's number to Chase representatives to make the transactions.
Her encrypted passwords offered her no protection. And Chase was not able to claw back the stolen money; it is probably gone for good, Ms. McCully said.
"I'm now so paranoid about everything," she said. "I was having this dream this morning that my backyard was broken into."
Ms. Cowles, the financial columnist, was similarly shaken after being scammed. She said she has been thinking lately about the book "Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion" by Robert Cialdini, which posits that when humans receive a favor or help, as happens during an exchange with a customer service representative, they are wired to reciprocate.
"That is a deeply embedded survival instinct," Ms. Cowles said. "But now that we are so surrounded by information and noise, it's almost as if our ability to understand who to fully trust has gone haywire. We have to second-guess ourselves every day."
The strategies people have used to ward off the risks of the analog world may not apply to the new digital reality, said Ms. Tobac, the cybersecurity expert.
"We're in easy territory for attackers," she said. "We haven't built up defenses."
"I'm skeptical about almost everyone," Ms. Tobac continued, noting that when she was contacted for this article, she put the reporter's email address into a verification tool and used a second method of communication, reaching out on X. Only then did she feel safe enough to agree to a phone interview.
Ms. Tobac calls her approach being "politely paranoid." She has to repeat her multi-step verification process dozens if not hundreds of times a week. Polite or not, she has learned to embrace the paranoia.
As if to underscore what it takes to maintain security in Scam World, she said midway through the interview: "This, by the way, is not my real number."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Customer services; Internet; Automation; Cybercrime; Identity theft

Business indexing term: Subject: Customer services Automation Identity theft

Location: China; New York; United States--US; Hong Kong China

People: Swift, Taylor; Hanks, Tom

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/19/style/scams-identity-theft.html

Title: You're Surrounded by Scammers:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 21, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3042293423

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newsp apers/youre-surrounded-scammers/docview/3042293423/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Deadly Stabbing Rampage, Australia Struggles With How and Why: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Kim, Victoria; Zhuang, Yan

Publication info: Kim, Victoria; Zhuang, Yan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-deadly-stabbing-rampage-australia-struggles/docview/3038254546/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The police have yet to determine a motive for Saturday's attack, which left six people dead, but said the assailant had mental-health problems.
On a perfect mid-autumn day, the scene at an upscale suburban mall in Sydney, Australia, was as humdrum as it was idyllic: mothers pushing strollers, gaggles of teenagers being young, families whiling away the weekend afternoon.
But in a matter of minutes on Saturday, the sprawling, multistory mall instead became a site of panic, chaos and terror. Only a mile from the famous Bondi Beach in eastern Sydney, a knife-wielding attacker stabbed nearly 20 people, including a 9-month-old girl. Six of the victims, including the girl's mother, died, and about a dozen others were being treated at hospitals. The attacker -- whose motives remain unclear -- was shot and killed by a police officer.
It was one of the deadliest mass killings in Australia in recent decades and has left many in shock, questioning how a tragedy of this magnitude could occur in a country known for its relative safety.
People in the surrounding community said the violence was all the more unsettling because the mall was such a hub of life that everyone had just been to, or was about to visit. Familiar backdrops -- the Lego store, a boba stand, clothing shops -- had become crime scenes and parts of traumatic memories.
"These things don't happen in Australia," said Kristie Spong, 54, who had been to the mall with her daughter a few days earlier and returned Sunday to lay flowers, her makeup running down her face through tears. "We just think we're a blessed country because we have good gun control."
The police on Sunday were combing through a crime scene spanning several floors of the Westfield Bondi Junction mall, which remained cordoned off. They were also going through footage from CCTV cameras and interviewing hundreds of witnesses to Saturday's attack, trying to piece together the chronology of a rampage that punctured a sense of security in this wealthy suburb of Australia's largest city.
Portraits of the victims, all but one of whom were women, began to emerge. They included a first-time mother, a security guard who tried to stop the attacker and a young fashion employee, according to statements from those who knew them.
Police officials identified the attacker as Joel Cauchi, 40, who arrived in the Sydney area a month ago from Queensland, in the country's northeast.
Why the man, who the police said had a history of mental illness, began terrorizing shoppers on Saturday afternoon, moving through the upper floors of the mall dressed in a rugby jersey and stabbing people with a long knife, remained unclear.
"There is still to this point nothing we have received that would suggest this was driven by any particular motivation, ideology or otherwise," Anthony Cooke, the assistant police commissioner for New South Wales, the state that includes Sydney, said at a news briefing on Sunday morning.
Asked if the attacker appeared to single out women, Karen Webb, the state's police commissioner, said that would be an "obvious" line of inquiry for the police.
"I think anyone seeing that footage can see that for themselves," she said, referring to his victims.
Hedy Davant, 71, who has lived a couple of blocks from the mall for three decades and visited the makeshift memorial on Sunday, said the pattern seemed apparent to her.
"It's so cowardly," she said. "He avoided the men and went for the women and children."
Huma Hussainy, 33, said she stepped out of the Lululemon store on the fourth floor after hearing screaming on Saturday and made eye contact with the attacker, who was a short distance to her right carrying a knife that she remembered as being more than a foot long. She looked left and saw two people collapsed on the floor, surrounded by pools of blood.
"His face was so angry and his knife was ready -- the way he was holding the knife," she said. She dashed back inside to try to find a place to hide.
The rampage ultimately came to an end at the swift actions of a woman: Amy Scott, a police inspector whom the authorities repeatedly praised as having averted what could have been a much larger tragedy by shooting the attacker dead.
Mr. Cauchi had had a number of interactions with the police in Queensland because of his illness, the authorities said, but he had never been arrested. The authorities did not describe what those problems were.
His family, who was not in regular communication with him, contacted the police when they saw TV broadcasts of the attack and recognized him, according to the police. In a statement, his family called his actions "truly horrific," saying they were still trying to comprehend what happened.
Until more police officers and medical personnel arrived at the scene, fellow shoppers tried to help the victims.
Andrew Reid, a lifeguard, asked a department store that had been locked down to raise its shutters so he could enter the mall to help a woman who appeared to be rapidly bleeding out from a stab wound in her back. With others, he did what he could, and moved on to a second woman who was collapsed nearby, with a bad gash in her chest.
"There was just a lot of blood," he recalled. "They were just bleeding out, the poor people."
By Sunday evening, the police had released the identities of two victims, Jade Young and Pikria Darchia. Ms. Young, 47, was a mother of two who was active in a local surf lifesaving club.
Ms. Darchia, 55, was an artist and designer, according to her LinkedIn page.
The family of another victim, Ashlee Good, said in a statement that she and her baby daughter were among those stabbed. The baby underwent hours of surgery on Saturday and was doing well, the family said, but Ms. Good, 38, did not survive.
"We are struggling to come to terms with what has occurred," Ms. Good's family said in the statement on Sunday.
Mr. Reid, the lifeguard, said he was stunned to learn later that another of the victims was Ms. Good, a friend whom he had been in a running group with for nearly a decade. Only then did he think back to an empty stroller he had seen in one of the stores nearby.
"She was a most beautiful soul," he said. "She wanted to be a mom, and she got that opportunity nine months ago."
The Ahmadiyya Muslim community said in a statement that Faraz Tahir, 30, a security guard, had died trying to protect others during the attack. He arrived in Australia a year ago as a migrant from his native Pakistan, where the Ahmadi religious minority is frequently persecuted. He quickly became a dedicated member of the local Muslim community, the statement said. Saturday was his first time working a shift at Bondi Junction's Westfield shopping mall, according to Mirza Sharif, a spokesman for the community.
In another social media statement, the White Fox Boutique, an online fashion retailer, said that one of its employees, Dawn Singleton, was among the victims. She was an e-commerce assistant who had graduated from college in 2019, according to her page on LinkedIn.
By midday Sunday, a makeshift memorial across the street from the mall had grown to a pile of about 100 bouquets of flowers, wreaths and a balloon, and residents walking their dogs or with their morning coffees stood nearby talking about their disbelief at what had happened.
Rabbi Mendel Kastel, the chief executive of the nearby Jewish House crisis center who is also a police chaplain, said people were coming up to him to express how deeply affected they were by Saturday's events.
"It's a very pleasant community; people look out for each other," he said. "Something like this shakes everybody to the core."
Photograph Jade Young, 47, was a mother of two who was active in a local surf lifesaving club.; Pikria Darchia, 55, was an artist and designer, according to her LinkedIn page.; Ashlee Good, 38, was at the mall with her baby, who had surgery and is said to be doing well.; Saturday was the first shift that Faraz Tahir, 30, worked as a security guard at the mall.A memorial in Bondi Junction. The attacker's motives are unclear, but the police are investigating whether he singled out women, said Karen Webb, the New South Wales police commissioner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GRAY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A6.

Subject: Guards; Criminal investigations; Women; Stabbings; Mass murders; Shopping centers

Business indexing term: Subject: Guards Shopping centers

Location: Australia; Queensland Australia; New South Wales Australia

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/14/world/australia/bondi-stabbing-why-how.html

Title: After Deadly Stabbing Rampage, Australia Struggles With How and Why:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 15, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3038254546

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-deadly-stabbing-rampage-australia-struggles/docview/3038254546/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Poverty and Inequality Prove Deadly for Many: [Op-Ed]

Author: Ryan, Lindsay

Publication info: Ryan, Lindsay. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/poverty-inequality-prove-deadly-many/docview/3037963801/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He has an easy smile, blue eyes and a life-threatening bone infection in one arm. Grateful for treatment, he jokes with the medical intern each morning. A friend, a fellow doctor, is supervising the man's care. We both work as internists at a public hospital in the medical safety net, a loose term for institutions that disproportionately serve patients on Medicaid or without insurance. You could describe the safety net in another way, too, as a place that holds up a mirror to our nation.
What is reflected can be difficult to face. It's this: After learning that antibiotics aren't eradicating his infection and amputation is the only chance for cure, the man withdraws, says barely a word to the intern. When she asks what he's thinking, his reply is so tentative that she has to prompt him to repeat himself. Now with a clear voice, he tells her that if his arm must be amputated, he doesn't want to live. She doesn't understand what it's like to survive on the streets, he continues. With a disability, he'll be a target -- robbed, assaulted. He'd rather die, unless, he says later, someone can find him a permanent apartment. In that case, he'll proceed with the amputation.
The psychiatrists evaluate him. He's not suicidal. His reasoning is logical. The social workers search for rooms, but in San Francisco far more people need long-term rehousing than the available units can accommodate. That the medical care the patient is receiving exceeds the cost of a year's rent makes no practical difference. Eventually, the palliative care doctors see him. He transitions to hospice and dies.
A death certificate would say he died of sepsis from a bone infection, but my friend and I have a term for the illness that killed him: end-stage poverty. We needed to coin a phrase because so many of our patients die of the same thing.
Safety-net hospitals and clinics care for a population heavily skewed toward the poor, recent immigrants and people of color. The budgets of these places are forever tight. And anyone who works in them could tell you that illness in our patients isn't just a biological phenomenon. It's the manifestation of social inequality in people's bodies.
Neglecting this fact can make otherwise meticulous care fail. That's why, on one busy night, a medical student on my team is scouring websites and LinkedIn. She's not shirking her duties. In fact, she's one of the best students I've ever taught.
This week she's caring for a retired low-wage worker with strokes and likely early dementia who was found sleeping in the street. He abandoned his rent-controlled apartment when electrolyte and kidney problems triggered a period of severe confusion that has since been resolved. Now, with little savings, he has nowhere to go. A respite center can receive patients like him when it has vacancies. The alternative is a shelter bed. He's nearly 90 years old.
Medical textbooks usually don't discuss fixing your patient's housing. They seldom include making sure your patient has enough food and some way to get to a clinic. But textbooks miss what my med students don't: that people die for lack of these basics.
People struggle to keep wounds clean. Their medications get stolen. They sicken from poor diet, undervaccination and repeated psychological trauma. Forced to focus on short-term survival and often lacking cellphones, they miss appointments for everything from Pap smears to chemotherapy. They fall ill in myriad ways -- and fall through the cracks in just as many.
Early in his hospitalization, our retired patient mentions a daughter, from whom he's been estranged for years. He doesn't know any contact details, just her name. It's a long shot, but we wonder if she can take him in.
The med student has one mission: find her.
I love reading about medical advances. I'm blown away that with a brain implant, a person who's paralyzed can move a robotic arm and that surgeons recently transplanted a genetically modified pig kidney into a man on dialysis. This is the best of American innovation and cause for celebration. But breakthroughs like these won't fix the fact that despite spending the highest percentage of its G.D.P. on health care among O.E.C.D. nations, the United States has a life expectancy years lower than comparable nations--the U.K. and Canada-- and a rate of preventable death far higher.
The solution to that problem is messy, incremental, protean and inglorious. It requires massive investment in housing, addiction treatment, free and low-barrier health care and social services. It calls for just as much innovation in the social realm as in the biomedical, for acknowledgment that inequities -- based on race, class, primary language and other categories -- mediate how disease becomes embodied. If health care is interpreted in the truest sense of caring for people's health, it must be a practice that extends well beyond the boundaries of hospitals and clinics.
Meanwhile, on the ground, we make do. Though the social workers are excellent and try valiantly, there are too few of them, both in my hospital and throughout a country that devalues and underfunds their profession. And so the medical student spends hours helping the family of a newly arrived Filipino immigrant navigate the health insurance system. Without her efforts, he wouldn't get treatment for acute hepatitis C. Another patient, who is in her 20s, can't afford rent after losing her job because of repeated hospitalizations for pancreatitis -- but she can't get the pancreatic operation she needs without a home in which to recuperate. I phone an eviction defense lawyer friend; the young woman eventually gets surgery.
Sorting out housing and insurance isn't the best use of my skill set or that of the medical students and residents, but our efforts can be rewarding. The internet turned up the work email of the daughter of the retired man. Her house was a little cramped with his grandchildren, she said, but she would make room. The medical student came in beaming.
In these cases we succeeded; in many others we don't. Safety-net hospitals can feel like the rapids foreshadowing a waterfall, the final common destination to which people facing inequities are swept by forces beyond their control. We try our hardest to fish them out, but sometimes we can't do much more than toss them a life jacket or maybe a barrel and hope for the best.
I used to teach residents about the principles of internal medicine -- sodium disturbances, delirium management, antibiotics. I still do, but these days I also teach about other topics -- tapping community resources, thinking creatively about barriers and troubleshooting how our patients can continue to get better after leaving the supports of the hospital.
When we debrief, residents tell me how much they struggle with the moral dissonance of working in a system in which the best medicine they can provide often falls short. They're right about how much it hurts, so I don't know exactly what to say to them. Perhaps I never will.
Lindsay Ryan is an associate physician at the University of California, San Francisco, department of medicine.
Source photographs by Bettmann and Fred W. McDarrah via Getty Images.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BETTMANN AND FRED W. MCDARRAH VIA GETTY) This article appeared in print on page SR7.

Subject: Infections; Hospitals; Patients; Textbooks; Medical students; Amputation; Social workers; Health care; Antibiotics; Indigent care; Fatalities; Poverty

Business indexing term: Subject: Hospitals

Location: United States--US; San Francisco California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/11/opinion/doctor-safety-net-hospital.html

Title: Poverty and Inequality Prove Deadly for Many:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 14, 2024

column: St Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3037963801

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/poverty-inequality-prove-deadly-many/docview/3037963801/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Texas Surgeon Is Accused of Changing Records to Secretly Deny Liver Transplants: [National Desk]

Author: Rosenthal, Brian M; Silver-Greenberg, Jessica

Publication info: Rosenthal, Brian M; Silver-Greenberg, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/texas-surgeon-is-accused-changing-records/docview/3037241028/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A Houston hospital is investigating whether a doctor altered a transplant list to make his patients ineligible for care. A disproportionate number of them have died while waiting for new organs.
For decades, Dr. J. Steve Bynon Jr., a transplant surgeon in Texas, gained accolades and national prominence for his work, including by helping to enforce professional standards in the country's sprawling organ transplant system.
But officials are now investigating allegations that Dr. Bynon was secretly manipulating a government database to make some of his own patients ineligible to receive new livers, potentially depriving them of lifesaving care.
Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center in Houston, where Dr. Bynon oversaw both the liver and kidney transplant programs, abruptly shut down those programs in the past week while looking into the allegations.
On Thursday, the medical center, a teaching hospital affiliated with the University of Texas, said in a statement that a doctor in its liver transplant program had admitted to changing patient records. That effectively denied the transplants, the hospital said. Officials identified the physician as Dr. Bynon, who is employed by the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston and has had a contract to lead Memorial Hermann's abdominal transplant program since 2011.
It was not clear what could have motivated Dr. Bynon. Reached by phone on Thursday, he referred questions to UTHealth Houston, which declined to comment. Dr. Bynon did not confirm he had admitted to altering records.
Founded in 1925, Memorial Hermann is a major hospital in Houston, but it has a relatively small liver transplant program. Last year, it performed 29 liver transplants, according to federal data, making it one of the smallest programs in Texas.
In recent years, a disproportionate number of Memorial Hermann patients have died while waiting for a liver, data shows. Last year, 14 patients were taken off the center's waiting list because they either died or became too sick, and its mortality rate for people waiting for a transplant was higher than expected, according to the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients, a research group.
This year, as of last month, five patients had died or become too sick to receive a liver transplant, while the hospital had performed three transplants, records show. The investigation is in early stages, and it was unclear if possible changes to the waiting list actually resulted in a patient not receiving a liver. A hospital spokeswoman said the center treated patients who were more severely ill than average.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services said in a statement that it was also investigating the allegations. So is the United Network for Organ Sharing, the federal contractor that oversees the country's organ transplant system.
"We acknowledge the severity of this allegation," the H.H.S. statement said. "We are working diligently to address this issue with the attention it deserves."
Officials began investigating after being alerted by a complaint. An analysis then found what the hospital called "irregularities" in how patients were classified on a waiting list for liver transplants. When doctors place a patient on the list, they must identify the types of donors they would consider, including the person's age and weight.
Hospital officials said they found patients had been listed as accepting only donors with ages and weights that were impossible -- for instance, a 300-pound toddler -- making them unable to receive any transplant.
Other transplant surgeons said if the list was tampered with, patients would not be aware of changes in their status.
"They're sitting at home, maybe not traveling, thinking they could get an organ offer any time, but in reality, they're functionally inactive, and so they're not going to get that transplant," said Dr. Sanjay Kulkarni, the vice chair of the ethics committee at the United Network for Organ Sharing. "It's highly unusual, I've never heard of it before, and it's also highly inappropriate."
The hospital said in its statement that it did not know how many patients were affected by the changes, or when they began. It said the issues affected only the liver transplant program, but the hospital also closed the kidney transplant program because it was led by the same doctor.
Dr. Bynon, 64, has spent his career in abdominal transplants, and is considered one of the early practitioners of advanced liver transplants. He spent nearly 20 years at the University of Alabama at Birmingham before moving to Texas in 2011.
Some former colleagues described Dr. Bynon as off-putting and arrogant, while others called him talented and dedicated.
"In my experience, everything he did was about the patient," said Dr. Brendan McGuire, the medical director of liver transplants at that Alabama program, who worked with Dr. Bynon for more than a decade. "When he transplanted someone, that person was his patient for life."
On its LinkedIn page, the University of Texas Health Science Center once featured a photo of a billboard with Dr. Bynon on it. The sign read, "Dr. Bynon gives new life to transplant patients."
Dr. Bynon also served on the Membership and Professional Standards Committee of the United Network for Organ Sharing, which investigates wrongdoing in the transplant system.
Most recently, in December, Dr. Bynon made headlines for performing a kidney transplant for former Lt. Gov. Ben Barnes of Texas.
The closure of the programs at Memorial Hermann has surprised many in the transplant community because it is extremely rare for a program to be suspended over ethical issues.
At the time it shut down its programs, Memorial Hermann had 38 patients on its liver transplant waiting list and 346 patients on its kidney list, according to the hospital.
Officials said they were contacting those patients to help them find new providers.
Roni Caryn Rabin contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Roni Caryn Rabin contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center in Houston, where Dr. J. Steve Bynon Jr. oversaw liver and kidney transplants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT PATTERSON, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Liver transplants; Hospitals; Patients; Surgeons; Medical waiting lists; Kidney transplants; Professional standards; Professional ethics

Business indexing term: Subject: Hospitals Professional ethics

Location: Texas; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: United Network for Organ Sharing; NAICS: 813212; Name: University of Texas; NAICS: 611310; Name: Texas Medical Center; NAICS: 621111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/11/us/organ-transplants-houston.html

Title: Texas Surgeon Is Accused of Changing Records to Secretly Deny Liver Transplants:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 13, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3037241028

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/texas-surgeon-is-accused-changing-records/docview/3037241028/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

These Agents Offer Protection And Discretion: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Perhach, Paulette

Publication info: Perhach, Paulette. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/these-agents-offer-protection-discretion/docview/3037241068/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Monica Duperon Rodriguez welled up with feelings of awe when she stepped off a charter flight onto the Serengeti in Africa for a job assignment.
"The thought that came to my mind was: 'This poor girl from this police department is standing in the Serengeti,"' she said. "I would have never in my entire life imagined myself being there."
A layperson might mistake the job that swept her across the ocean as "bodyguard." Professionals trained to her level of diplomacy, communication and planning earn the title of "executive protection specialist," or E.P. agent.
Ms. Rodriguez said her training had started early. As the oldest child growing up in a one-bedroom apartment supported by a single mother, she felt a need to protect her three siblings from the drugs and drive-by shootings in her Chicago-area neighborhood.
She spent three years in college while working a full-time job and caring for her two small children. After taking some time off, she was sponsored by her local police department to attend the police academy because it needed female officers, especially ones who spoke Spanish. She chose the academy instead of finishing her college degree.
Ms. Rodriguez worked in law enforcement for 15 years, much of it in Florida, first as a narcotics detective and a hostage negotiator on the SWAT team, and then as a corporal detective in the burglary division.
Through work on a human-trafficking task force, protecting and interpreting for American missionaries in Guatemala, she made contacts with people who connected her to an opportunity to work for an ultra-high-net-worth individual. She was flown in for a daylong interview and was told the person's identity only when she landed. Once she got the job, she began flying on private jets with someone from a globally known family.
Occupation: Executive Protection Specialist
Salary: Varies by assignment, but some E.P.s can earn hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Something to Know: The job can be exciting and let you travel the world and work with prominent families and A-listers. But be prepared to spend long periods away from friends and family.
Ms. Rodriguez can't say who, as one of the primary commandments of the job is discretion, which felt like second nature to her after her experience working undercover.
For several years, starting during her time in law enforcement, Ms. Rodriguez studied martial arts, practicing for four hours a day, three times a week. She took jujitsu classes that cost about $ 100 a month, and trained in martial arts twice a week for $ 30 a session. This training, as well as her negotiation skills learned as a police officer, transferred to her job in protection.
In law enforcement, she was making around $ 42,000 annually; in executive protection, she has made as much as $ 200,000 a year.
"For me, education is extremely important," Ms. Rodriguez said. "How you get it -- that's an entirely different thing. College is not always the answer, but education is paramount to personal growth and to really being able to identify potential opportunities."
Ms. Rodriguez, who worked as the head of executive protection and global event security at LinkedIn and now runs her own business, says future E.P. agents may currently be working in the military or as E.M.T.s, with experience performing under stress. But the best people for executive protection work, she said, know how to switch off the high-intensity part of themselves to take on the etiquette, culture and expectations of clients who are usually accustomed to the world of luxury.
"We have to learn how to be somewhat of a chameleon," Ms. Rodriguez said. E.P.s, she said, should be able to use physical skills when necessary, but also know how to ease tensions without causing a scene.
Amber Haddock also came from a law enforcement background when, just a few days after a 14-day executive protection training program, she flew to what was supposed to be a three-month assignment: guarding, without a gun or badge, a 17-year-old Middle Eastern princess living in Washington, D.C., under the guise that she was the young royal's American host mom.
After the trial, the princess's family decided to keep her on as a contractor for two years. Ms. Haddock drove the princess and her friends to her college classes and social events. On trips abroad, she flew with the young client on her private jet.
Female operatives can often disappear into roles, portraying the executive assistant, the aunt or the nanny.
"We don't exist, and then, when we do exist, stuff has already hit the fan and we are evacuating the client," Ms. Haddock said.
Much of the job involves planning. Executive protection specialists prepare contingency plans, routes and backup routes. They find the nearest hospitals and "hard points" -- their term for safe locations.
"What if you were in Hawaii and the fire started with your client?" Ms. Haddock said, referring to the Maui fire. "Do you know where you would take them?"
Ms. Haddock, who lives in Texas and is the managing partner of the Texas branch of the Private Protection Agency, had been in junior college for two years when Sept. 11 happened, and she felt called to service. She learned that the Dallas County police would pay for part of her degree after she graduated from the police academy. She worked nights as an officer and went to college during the day, getting a bachelor's degree in interdisciplinary studies and multiculturalism studies.
For the bulk of her career, Ms. Haddock has worked for Middle Eastern royal families.
When she started 15 years ago, "that was the only job back then, for female agents," she said. Women were required, at times, because of family religious boundaries.
With the advancement of women in the work force and more women at top jobs, she said, more female chief executives are requesting female agents, creating demand.
When looking for a job in executive protection, individuals can find full-time positions at companies, or work independently, taking on details (what they call contract jobs) on teams or for clients as they arise, from dignitaries, celebrities or corporate leaders. The salary varies widely depending on location, client needs, threat level and other factors, but a full-time E.P. job can often pay in the six figures. A recent security posting from OpenAI listed the salary as $ 225,000. At her level, Ms. Haddock said, "I don't get out of bed for less than $ 1,000 a day."
Miranda Coppoolse, a security behavioral analyst at MC Global Security Consulting, came to work in protection from a place of resilience, having survived kidnapping, trafficking and abuse from a criminal gang.
"I didn't want other people to go through what I went through," said Ms. Coppoolse, who lives outside Amsterdam and has an associate degree in security management, as well as training in criminal psychology, human trafficking prevention and counterterrorism. "I thought with all the experience that I had from my past, I might be able to help other people. And so I started to work out and train."
She practices martial arts because it's a means of self-defense that's not as obvious as carrying a gun, and she doesn't have to deal with different firearm laws when traveling.
"Close protection is not so much about weapons," Ms. Coppoolse said. "I think E.P. is really about giving the sense of safety, most of all, to that client. And you can only do that when you're confident."
She has worked around the world, walking through mansions and A-list celebrity parties in Los Angeles.
"It's an exciting life," Ms. Coppoolse said. "It's also an exhausting life, because you have to be always alert."
Because E.P.s need to be physically present for jobs, they can go long periods without seeing their friends and family.
Ms. Haddock never had the goal of having a family of her own, "so this job allowed me to move about the world, and help other families in their lives," she said. But she added that plenty of women who worked in E.P. had successful careers and had their own families.
Contracts can be for multiple months, or much longer with a schedule that can look like three weeks on with two weeks off. Corporate contracts can have more standardized hours. Most clients use a trial period to make sure it's a fit for both the E.P. agent and the client.
The job also provides ways to serve communities. Ms. Coppoolse runs an organization that works with victims of human trafficking. Ms. Haddock teaches self-defense through her social media accounts. Ms. Rodriguez escorts women who have to go to court to face their domestic abusers.
"When you are a natural born protector," said Ms. Rodriguez, "that's what you do."
Photograph Amber Haddock, top, and Monica Duperon Rodriguez, right, both come from law enforcement backgrounds. Ms. Rodriguez said executive protection work involves not just physical skills, but also being able to ease tensions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAKE DOCKINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Monica Duperon Rodriguez, above, says executive protection agents know how to perform under stress. Above right, the first-aid kit and bag of essentials that Ms. Rodriguez takes with her on job assignments, and the kit's contents, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); After a 14-day executive protection training program that included target practice, above, Amber Haddock, right, was assigned to guard a 17-year-old Middle Eastern princess living in Washington, D.C., under the guise that she was the young royal's American host mother. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAKE DOCKINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Self defense; Security management; Law enforcement; Celebrities; Martial arts; Personal profiles; Employment; Executives; Community colleges; Females; Firearms; Human trafficking

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment Executives

Location: Texas; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/07/business/executive-protection-jobs.html

Title: These Agents Offer Protection And Discretion:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 12, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3037241068

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/these-agents-offer-protection-discretion/docview/3037241068/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Guarding Royal Families for $1,000 a Day: Inside Executive Protection Jobs

Author: Perhach, Paulette

Publication info: Perhach, Paulette. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guarding-royal-families-1-000-day-inside/docview/3037183382/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Monica Duperon Rodriguez welled up with feelings of awe when she stepped off a charter flight onto the Serengeti in Africa for a job assignment.
“The thought that came to my mind was: ‘This poor girl from this police department is standing in the Serengeti,’” she said. “I would have never in my entire life imagined myself being there.”
A layperson might mistake the job that swept her across the ocean as “bodyguard.” Professionals trained to her level of diplomacy, communication and planning earn the title of “executive protection specialist,” or EP agent.
Rodriguez said her training started early. As the oldest child growing up in a one-bedroom apartment supported by a single mother, she felt a need to protect her three siblings from the drugs and drive-by shootings in her Chicago-area neighborhood.
She spent three years in college while working a full-time job and caring for her two small children. After taking some time off, she was sponsored by her local police department to attend the police academy because it needed female officers, especially ones who spoke Spanish. She chose the academy instead of finishing her college degree.
Rodriguez worked in law enforcement for 15 years, much of it in Florida, first as a narcotics detective and a hostage negotiator on the SWAT team, and then as a corporal detective in the burglary division.
Through work on a human-trafficking task force, protecting and interpreting for American missionaries in Guatemala, she made contacts with people who connected her to an opportunity to work for an ultra-high-net-worth individual. She was flown in for a daylong interview and was told the person’s identity only when she landed. Once she got the job, she began flying on private jets with someone from a globally known family.
Rodriguez can’t say who, as one of the primary commandments of the job is discretion, which felt like second nature to her after her experience working undercover.
For several years, starting during her time in law enforcement, Rodriguez studied martial arts, practicing for four hours a day, three times a week. She took jujitsu classes that cost about $100 a month, and trained in martial arts twice a week for $30 a session. This training, as well as her negotiation skills learned as a police officer, transferred to her job in protection.
In law enforcement, she was making around $42,000 annually; in executive protection, she has made as much as $200,000 a year.
“For me, education is extremely important,” Rodriguez said. “How you get it — that’s an entirely different thing. College is not always the answer, but education is paramount to personal growth and to really being able to identify potential opportunities.”
Rodriguez, who worked as the head of executive protection and global event security at LinkedIn and now runs her own business, says future EP agents might currently be working in the military or as EMTs, with experience performing under stress. But the best people for executive protection work, she said, know how to switch off the high-intensity part of themselves to take on the etiquette, culture and expectations of clients who are usually accustomed to the world of luxury.
“We have to learn how to be somewhat of a chameleon,” Rodriguez said. EPs, she said, should be able to use physical skills when necessary, but also know how to ease tensions without causing a scene.
Amber Haddock also came from a law enforcement background when, just a few days after a 14-day executive protection training program, she flew to what was supposed to be a three-month assignment: guarding, without a gun or badge, a 17-year-old Middle Eastern princess living in Washington, D.C., under the guise that she was the young royal’s American host mom.
After the trial, the princess’ family decided to keep her on as a contractor for two years. Haddock drove the princess and her friends to her college classes and social events. On trips abroad, she flew with the young client on her private jet.
Female operatives can often disappear into roles, portraying the executive assistant, the aunt or the nanny.
“We don’t exist and then, when we do exist, stuff has already hit the fan and we are evacuating the client,” Haddock said.
Much of the job involves planning in advance.
Executive protection specialists prepare contingency plans, routes and backup routes. They locate the nearest hospitals and “hard points” — their term for safe locations.
“What if you were in Hawaii and the fire started with your client?” Haddock said, referring to the Maui fire. “Do you know where you would take them?”
Haddock, who lives in Texas and is the managing partner of the Texas branch of the Private Protection Agency, had been in junior college for two years when 9/11 happened, and she felt called to service. She learned that the Dallas County Police would pay for part of her degree after she graduated from the police academy. She worked nights as an officer and went to college during the day, getting a bachelor’s degree in interdisciplinary studies and multiculturalism studies.
For the bulk of her career, Haddock has worked for Middle Eastern royal families.
When she started 15 years ago, “that was the only job back then, for female agents,” she said. Women were required, at times, because of family religious boundaries.
With the advancement of women in the workforce and more women at top jobs, she said, more female CEOs are requesting female agents, creating demand.
When looking for a job in executive protection, individuals can find full-time positions at companies, or work independently, taking on details (what they call contract jobs) on teams or for clients as they arise, from dignitaries, celebrities or corporate leaders. The salary varies widely depending on location, client needs, threat level and other factors, but a full-time EP job can often pay in the six figures. A recent security posting from OpenAI listed the salary as $225,000. At her level, Haddock said, “I don’t get out of bed for less than $1,000 a day.”
Miranda Coppoolse, a security behavioral analyst at MC Global Security Consulting, came to work in protection from a place of resiliency, having survived kidnapping, trafficking and abuse from a criminal gang.
“I didn’t want other people to go through what I went through,” said Coppoolse, who lives outside of Amsterdam and has an associate degree in security management, as well as training in criminal psychology, human trafficking prevention and counterterrorism. “I thought with all the experience that I had from my past, I might be able to help other people. And so I started to work out and train.”
She practices martial arts because it’s a means of self-defense that’s not as obvious as carrying a gun, and she doesn’t have to deal with different firearm laws when traveling.
“Close protection is not so much about weapons,” Coppoolse said. “I think EP is really about giving the sense of safety, most of all, to that client. And you can only do that when you’re confident.”
She has worked around the world, walking through mansions and A-list celebrity parties in Los Angeles.
“It’s an exciting life,” Coppoolse said. “It’s also an exhausting life, because you have to be always alert.”
Because EPs need to be physically present for jobs, they can go long periods without seeing their friends and family.
Haddock never had the goal of having a family of her own, “so this job allowed me to move about the world, and help other families in their lives,” she said. But she added that plenty of women who work in EP have successful careers and have their own families.
Contracts can be for multiple months, or much longer with a schedule that can look like three weeks on with two weeks off. Corporate contracts can have more standardized hours. Most clients use a trial period to make sure it’s a fit for both the EP agent and the client.
The job also provides ways to serve communities. Coppoolse runs an organization that works with victims of human trafficking. Haddock teaches self-defense through her social media accounts. Rodriguez escorts women who have to go to court to face their domestic abusers.
“When you are a natural born protector,” said Rodriguez, “that’s what you do.”
—
Occupation: Executive Protection Specialist
Salary: Varies by assignment, but some EPs can earn hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Something to Know: The job can be exciting, let you travel the world and work with prominent families and A-listers. But be prepared to spend long periods of time away from friends and family.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Self defense; Law enforcement; Security management; Celebrities; Personal profiles; Martial arts; Employment; Community colleges; Females; Firearms; Human trafficking

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment

Location: Texas; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Maui (Hawaii); Linkedin Corporation; Hiring And Promotion; Texas; Los Angeles (Calif); Private Aircraft; Education (K 12); Vocational Training; Income Inequality; Labor And Jobs; Evacuations And Evacuees; Martial Arts; Guatemala; Florida; Women's Rights; Parties (Social); Domestic Violence; Small Business; Careers And Professions; Youth; Police; Social Media; Wages And Salarie s; Women And Girls; Executive Compensation; Royal Families; Africa; Hawaii; Self Defense; September 11 (2001); Washington (Dc); Business; Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Chicago (Ill); Human Trafficking; Drug Abuse And Traffic

Title: Guarding Royal Families for $1,000 a Day: Inside Executive Protection Jobs

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 11, 2024

Dateline: 2024-04-11T21:38:23Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3037183382

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/guarding-royal-families-1-000-day-inside/docview/3037183382/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Betting on a Regulatory Shift, Automattic Scoops Up Beeper Messaging App: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/betting-on-regulatory-shift-automattic-scoops-up/docview/3034914494/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Automattic, the company behind WordPress.com, bought Beeper in an effort to build a system that works across Android and Apple devices.
Beeper, the app that brought iPhone messaging features to Android smartphones, has been acquired by Automattic, the company behind WordPress.com, to support the development of a single service for sending and receiving chats from WhatsApp, Signal, LinkedIn and others.
The deal, which is valued at about $ 125 million, was announced on Tuesday. It comes as regulators in Europe and the United States pressure the biggest tech companies to open their messaging services to third parties. Regulators believe doing so will make it easier for people to communicate with friends and family and to switch messaging providers.
Automattic is betting that the changing regulatory environment will make people more interested in finding a unified messaging system like Beeper, said Toni Schneider, Automattic's interim chief executive.
Beeper is Automattic's second messaging service acquisition. Last year, it bought Texts, an iPhone app that brings together messages from Instagram, iMessage and others. Mr. Schneider said Beeper and Texts employees would combine their systems into a single app that worked on iPhones and Android smartphones as well as computers.
"Everyone has this problem where they say, 'I know I had this conversation with this person, but I can't remember where,"' Mr. Schneider said. "We think we can innovate a lot in this space."
Eric Migicovsky, who co-founded Beeper in 2020, said Beeper and Texts would deliver their combined service this year. The teams that built those companies will meet in two weeks in Portugal to begin that process.
"The real thing we have been competing against was apathy about new experiences in chat," Mr. Migicovsky said.
Last year, Beeper released an app that offered Android phone users the ability to send encrypted messages and high-resolution videos to iPhones. The app added more than 100,000 users in three days before Apple blocked it by changing its iMessage system.
Though a Justice Department lawsuit accusing Apple of maintaining an iPhone monopoly did not refer specifically to Beeper, the problems highlighted by Beeper's conflict with Apple were mentioned in the complaint, which was filed in March. The department faulted Apple for making "iPhone users less secure than they would otherwise be" by "rejecting solutions" for smartphone messaging like those provided by Beeper.
Beeper will soon be open to anyone who wants to download it after a testing period that limited the app to about 100,000 users, Mr. Migicovsky said. The company had 466,000 people on a waiting list. About 60 percent of its users are on Android smartphones.
Automattic was an early investor in Beeper, which had raised $ 16 million from investors that included Y Combinator and Initialized Capital, Mr. Migicovsky said. Last week, Beeper's 27 employees officially began work at their new company.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Unified messaging; Smartphones; Software; Acquisitions & mergers

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Acquisitions & mergers

Company / organization: Name: Automattic Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Beeper Network Inc; NAICS: 517112

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/09/technology/beeper-messaging-app-automattic.html

Title: Betting on a Regulatory Shift, Automattic Scoops Up Beeper Messaging App:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 10, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3034914494

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/betting-on-regulatory-shift-automattic-scoops-up/docview/3034914494/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

N.Y.P.D. Officials Use Social Media to Push Back Against Critics: [National Desk]

Author: Cramer, Maria; Rubinstein, Dana

Publication info: Cramer, Maria; Rubinstein, Dana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/n-y-p-d-officials-use-social-media-push-back/docview/3033796420/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The department's leaders frequently go on X to upbraid police critics, from media columnists to elected officials, in a departure from protocol.
A newspaper columnist was accused of being "deceitful." A lawyer and political activist was challenged to show her face at the funeral of a fallen officer. And a city councilwoman became the target of an apparent "vote her out" campaign.
The combative comments -- all posted on X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter -- were nothing new for a site that has become synonymous with personal attacks and insults. What was unusual was the source: executives from the New York Police Department.
"The defund crowd who will cry 'boo hoo' to 9-1-1 when they need us," John Chell, the chief of patrol, wrote on X on March 31, complaining about a critical column written by Harry Siegel of The Daily News. "The problem is that besides your flawed reporting is the fact that now we are calling you and your 'latte' friends out on their garbage."
The aggressive stance -- while consistent with the often antagonistic approach taken by Mayor Eric Adams and his circle of loyal aides -- is a sharp departure from typical police protocol, and some former Police Department and city officials say many of the responses go too far.
But Mr. Adams and top police officials said the attacks would continue.
"We're going to start pushing back and I think the issue is people aren't used to it," Chief Chell told reporters during a briefing this week. "I can tweet and fight crime at the same time."
The latest and most extended example of the aggressive posture has centered on a series of attacks against Mr. Siegel, whose piece criticizing department leaders for crime on the subway ran the same day as the funeral of Jonathan Diller, a police officer killed in the line of duty.
Using the department's public information account, the police began calling him "Harry 'Deceitful' Siegel," pouncing on an error in his column -- he wrote there had been 10 homicides on the subway when there had been four. The newspaper fixed the mistake and noted in a correction that it regretted the error. But the criticism continued, with several executives accusing Mr. Siegel of being disdainful of the police.
In recent months, police brass have also gone on X to complain about a judge, who they wrongly accused of freeing a man that went on to commit another felony.
Chief Chell also called the The New York Times's coverage of Officer Diller's funeral "disgraceful" in a repost of a New York Post editorial that criticized The Times for not featuring the article on the front page, among other complaints.
In an interview with The News, Commissioner Edward A. Caban did not say whether he agreed with his supervisors' sentiments. But he said he understood their frustration with the media.
"I can tell you that my executives are very passionate about defending their specific bureaus," said Commissioner Caban, whose own X account features more conventional fare: posts about promotional ceremonies and pictures of himself with politicians, officers and community leaders.
"As an agency, I don't think we get credit, or the officers get credit, for the work we do," he said.
Mr. Adams, a former police captain, was far more explicit in his support of the contentious social media posts. During a briefing with reporters on Tuesday, the mayor said that he did not believe his department leaders had "attacked" Mr. Siegel, adding that it was imperative that "the free press should be held accountable."
"The columnist shared his opinion," Mr. Adams said of Mr. Siegel's column. "They shared their opinion."
Not everyone agrees with Mr. Adams's stance.
By letting loose on social media, executives in the department are not only undermining their own positions, they're giving the public a sense that the leadership structure is not under control, said Bill Cunningham, the first communications director for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
"I don't know that you can make the case for this department and its leadership," Mr. Cunningham said. "It raises the question again of, who authorized it? Who decided this was a good strategy?"
Former Police Commissioner William J. Bratton said he understood that the posts on X reflect months of anger from police officers and leaders, who feel maligned by some in the media and remain furious over reforms passed by the State Legislature and the City Council that they believe have led to spikes in crime. But, he said, the posts are a reflection of how social media has removed guardrails even from institutions like the Police Department, where messaging was usually more controlled.
"The barriers are going down," he said. "And that's a shame in some respects. You want to have free speech but you need to have some degree of limits."
Mr. Bratton, who now works in private consulting and has his own X account, said he had hired someone to help him restrain his emotional impulses, "so in a moment of frustration and anger, I don't hit the send button."
"I'm constantly expressing frustration with the legislature in the city and the state," Mr. Bratton said. "But the idea is to as much as possible not to get into name-calling. Refrain from name-calling and stick as much as you can to the facts."
The online indignation has even extended to supporters of the police.
On March 31, Mike Colón, whose podcast "MC's Audio" usually features positive interviews with police officers, federal agents and firefighters, wrote an essay on LinkedIn after some of the messages were posted, telling police leaders to "grow up."
Chief Chell replied to Mr. Colón's post, accusing him of launching "a very direct attack."
"I wonder who put you up to this?" Chief Chell wrote from his LinkedIn account.
Mr. Colón said he was perplexed.
"What do you care what some 24-year-old upstart journalist from Connecticut thinks?" he said "Don't you have a department to run?"
Mr. Siegel, a 46-year-old tabloid veteran who is also an editor at The City, a nonprofit publication, said he felt the chiefs had conflated his criticism of them with being against police officers.
He said he was "certain that trying to intimidate is part of the point."
"My wife is not thrilled," Mr. Siegel said in an interview. "They're obviously crossing a line into outright slander, which seems to show sloppiness and weakness, and a desperation to talk about anything other than the issues I actually write about in my columns."
For the record, he said, he prefers deli coffee to lattes.
The Police Department has a media engagement unit known as the Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Public Information, with a robust budget of roughly $ 4 million, according to the Citizens Budget Commission.
It is staffed 24 hours a day by civilians and officers -- its budget allows for a staff of about 30 -- who field questions from reporters and distribute news releases detailing recent crimes and arrests.
It also oversees much of the department's social media feeds. The current deputy commissioner for public information, Tarik Sheppard, a former deputy inspector, said he reviewed "90 percent" of the posts on X put out by precinct commanders, who have separate accounts.
"It's impossible for me to see everything," Commissioner Sheppard said, adding that his office fixes or takes down any incorrect information that is posted.
In the case of the police executive brass, he said he saw most of their posts before they were sent out, including the ones that were critical of Mr. Siegel.
"I totally support and agree with them," Commissioner Sheppard said, adding that there was nothing "unprofessional" about pointing out errors. "And we're not going to stop."
The most prolific posters have been Chief Chell and Kaz Daughtry, the deputy commissioner for operations, who reposted many of Chief Chell's messages and, in one of his own, called Mr. Siegel a "gadfly."
During a briefing with reporters on Wednesday, Commissioner Daughtry was more measured, saying he believed in the freedom of the press. He said his posts were an emotional reaction to seeing Officer Diller in the operating room as doctors desperately tried to save him.
"I get home, and my daughter asked me, 'Why are you crying, Daddy?"' Commissioner Daughtry said. "Then I look at my text messages, and I see an article written by Harry bashing us on a day we just buried one of our brothers. And I felt the need to speak up on behalf of my cops."
Hurubie Mekoand Chelsia Rose Marcius contributed reporting.
Hurubie Mekoand Chelsia Rose Marcius contributed reporting.
Photograph John Chell, the chief of patrol, complained about a column written by Harry Siegel of The Daily News that criticized the Police Department for crime on the subway. Chief Chell pointed out an error in Mr. Siegel's column, which the newspaper corrected.; Chief Chell also challenged a lawyer and political activist to appear at the funeral of Jonathan Diller, a police officer who was killed in the line of duty. This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Leadership; Crime; Police departments; Murders & murder attempts; Freedom of the press; Funerals; Social networks; Reporters

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/05/nyregion/nypd-social-media-x-twitter.html

Title: N.Y.P.D. Officials Use Social Media to Push Back Against Critics:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 6, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3033796420

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/n-y-p-d-officials-use-social-media-push-back/docview/3033796420/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Unwrapping Plastic's Grip on Produce: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Severson, Kim

Publication info: Severson, Kim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unwrapping-plastics-grip-on-produce/docview/3030967047/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As governments impose limits on plastic food packaging, climate-friendlier alternatives are in the works. Here are some that might be coming to a grocery store near you.
If it seems like plastic surrounds nearly every cucumber, apple and pepper in the produce aisle, it does.
What began with cellophane in the 1930s picked up speed with the rise of plastic clamshells in the 1980s and bagged salads in the 1990s. Online grocery shopping turbocharged it.
But now the race is on for what people who grow and sell fruits and vegetables are calling a moon shot: breaking plastic's stranglehold on produce.
In a March survey among produce professionals on LinkedIn, the shift to biodegradable material was voted the top trend. "It's big," said Soren Bjorn, chief executive officer of Driscoll's, the world's biggest grower of berries, which has switched to paper containers in many European markets.
Spain has a plastic tax. France has severely limited plastic-wrapped produce and the European Union is about to add its own restrictions. Canada is trying to hammer out a plan that could eliminate plastic packaging of produce by 95 percent by 2028. In the United States, 11 states have already restricted plastic packaging. As part of a sweeping anti-waste plan, the Biden administration is calling for new ways to package food that uses climate-friendly, antimicrobial material designed to reduce reliance on plastic.
So we agree that eliminating plastic is the answer?
Reducing the use of plastic is an obvious way to push back against a changing climate. Plastic is created from fossil fuels, the biggest contributor to greenhouse gases. It chokes the oceans and seeps into the food chain. Estimates vary, but about 40 percent of plastic waste comes from packaging.
Yet plastic has so far been the most effective tool to fight another environmental threat: food waste.
Wirecutter shares tips for keeping your produce fresh for weeks.
Selling produce is like holding a melting ice cube and asking how much someone will pay for it. Time is of the essence, and plastic works well to slow the decay of vegetables and fruit. That means less produce is tossed into the garbage, where it creates almost 60 percent of landfill methane emissions, according to a 2023 report by the Environmental Protection Agency.
A Swiss study in 2021 showed that each rotting cucumber thrown away has the equivalent environmental impact of 93 plastic cucumber wrappers.
Food is the most common material in landfills. The average American family of four spends $ 1,500 each year on food that ends up uneaten. Of that, fruits and vegetables make up nearly half of all household food waste, according to research from Michigan State University. And it's not just the wasted food that adds to climate change. The farming and transportation wasted to produce food that is discarded impacts the climate, too.
Preventing food waste and reducing the use of plastic aren't mutually exclusive goals. Both are high on the agenda of the Biden administration, which in December issued a draft of a national strategy to halve the nation's food loss by 2030.
Are Americans on board?
Consumers increasingly report that using less plastic and packaging matters to them, but their shopping habits tell a different story. American shoppers bought $ 4.3 billion worth of bagged salad last year, according to the International Fresh Produce Association. Marketing experiments and independent research both show that price, quality and convenience drive food choices more than environmental concerns.
Grocers are having to make tough decisions, too. Shoppers have complained about having to buy produce that has already been packed in plastic and priced. Not selling by weight is easier for the store, whose workers don't have to weigh each item. But it often forces shoppers to buy more than they need.
Battle lines seem to be drawn between the never-plastic crowd and shoppers who prefer the ease of fresh salad greens delivered to their door.
"The packaging conversation is being held hostage by one side or the other," said Max Teplitski, chief science officer of the International Fresh Produce Association. He leads the Alliance for Sustainable Packaging for Foods, a collection of industry trade groups that formed in January.
The group's priority is to make sure that any changes in packaging will keep food safe and preserve its quality.
What alternatives to plastic are coming?
Here are a few new ideas headed to the produce aisle:
Bags from trees. An Austrian company is using beechwood trees to make biodegradable cellulose net bags to hold produce. Other companies offer similar netting that decomposes within a few weeks.
Film from peels. Orange peels, shrimp shells and other natural waste is being turned into film that can be used like cellophane, or made into bags. An edible coating made from plant-based fatty acids is sprayed on cucumbers, avocados and other produce sold at many major grocery stores. They work in a way similar to the wax coating commonly used on citrus and apples.
Clamshells from cardboard. Plastic clamshells are a $ 9.1 billion business in the United States, and the number of growers who use them is vast. Replacing them will be an enormous challenge, particularly for more fragile fruits and vegetables. Plenty of designers are trying. Driscoll's has been working to develop paper containers for use in the United States and Canada. In the meantime, the company is using more recycled plastic in its clamshells in the United States.
Ice that feels like gelatin. Luxin Wang and other scientists at the University of California, Davis, have invented reusable jelly ice. It is lighter than ice and doesn't melt. It could eliminate the need for plastic ice packs, which can't be recycled. After about a dozen uses, the jelly ice can be tossed into a garden or the garbage, where it dissolves.
Boxes with atmosphere. Broccoli is usually shipped in wax-coated boxes packed with ice. The soggy cartons can't be recycled. Iceless broccoli shipping containers use a mix of gases that help preserve the vegetable instead of chilling it with ice, which is heavy to ship and can transmit pathogens when it melts. Other sustainable, lighter shipping cartons are being designed to remove ethylene, a plant hormone that encourages ripening.
Containers from plants. Rice-paddy straw left over after harvests, grasses, sugar cane stalks and even food waste are all being turned into trays and boxes that are either biodegradable or can be composted.
Problem solved, right?
Hardly. Even if every grower and grocer started using packaging that could be recycled or composted, America's infrastructure for turning it into something besides trash is spotty at best. Less than 10 percent of all plastic is recycled, a figure that is even lower for produce packaging, said Eva Almenar, a professor at Michigan State University's School of Packaging. Only a small fraction of packaging labeled compostable stays out of the landfill.
Just 3 percent of wasted food lands at industrial composting centers. Several states have no commercial operations that can compost food waste.
"We don't have right the technology, and we don't have the collection systems," Dr. Almenar said.
Even if the infrastructure were in place, people's habits aren't. "Consumers have no clue about what means green, compostable or recyclable," she said.
Practically, no one has yet devised an affordable plastic alternative that can be recycled or composted and also keeps fruits and vegetables safe and fresh. Plastic allows packers to modify the mix of gases inside a package in a way that extends the shelf life and the quality of fresh produce.
"The pushback you are getting is that if you eliminate plastic and go to fiber, it depletes the shelf life really fast," said Scott Crawford, vice president of merchandising for Baldor Specialty Foods and a veteran of both Whole Foods Market and Fresh Direct. "The question is which side of the balloon are you trying to squeeze?"
The ideal solution, he said, would be to go back to the days before plastic, when grocers stacked their produce by hand and no one demanded that seasonal fruit like blueberries be available year-round.
"I don't think we're going to live to see that," he said.
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Photograph State and national governments have been imposing limits on plastic food packaging, which has become an environmental threat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUSN/GETTY IMAGES) (D1); Plastic wrap for food is ubiquitous. But there are some alternatives, clockwise from top: Driscoll's has switched to paper containers in many European markets; a team at the University of California, Davis, has invented reusable jelly ice; iceless broccoli shipping containers use a mix of gases that help preserve vegetables; and an Austrian company is using beechwood trees to make biodegradable cellulose net bags. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DRISCOLL'S; JAEL MACKENDORF/UC DAVIS; STEPACPPC; VPZ VERPACKUNGSZENTRUM GMBH) (D4) This article appeared in print on page D1, D4.

Subject: Cooking; Cellulose; Shopping; Fruits; Biodegradable materials; Landfill; Food waste; Food packaging; Climate change; Vegetables; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Grocery stores

Location: New York; United States--US; Canada; Michigan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: University of California-Davis; NAICS: 611310; Name: Michigan State University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/02/dining/plastic-food-packaging.html

Title: Unwrapping Pl astic's Grip on Produce:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 3, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3030967047

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unwrapping-plastics-grip-on-produce/docview/3030967047/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Unwrapping Plastic’s Grip on Produce

Author: Severson, Kim

Publication info: Severson, Kim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unwrapping-plastic-s-grip-on-produce/docview/3030898281/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
If it seems like plastic surrounds nearly every cucumber, apple and pepper in the produce aisle, it does.
What began with cellophane in the 1930s picked up speed with the rise of plastic clamshells in the 1980s and bagged salads in the 1990s. Online grocery shopping turbocharged it.
But now the race is on for what people who grow and sell fruits and vegetables are calling a moon shot: breaking plastic’s stranglehold on produce.
In a March survey among produce professionals on LinkedIn, the shift to biodegradable material was voted the top trend. “It’s big,” said Soren Bjorn, CEO of Driscoll’s, the world’s biggest grower of berries, which has switched to paper containers in many European markets.
Spain has a plastic tax. France has severely limited plastic-wrapped produce and the European Union is about to add its own restrictions. Canada is trying to hammer out a plan that could eliminate plastic packaging of produce by 95% by 2028. In the United States, 11 states have already restricted plastic packaging. As part of a sweeping anti-waste plan, the Biden administration is calling for new ways to package food that uses climate-friendly, antimicrobial material designed to reduce reliance on plastic.
So we agree that eliminating plastic is the answer?
Reducing the use of plastic is an obvious way to push back against a changing climate. Plastic is created from fossil fuels, the biggest contributor to greenhouse gases. It chokes the oceans and seeps into the food chain. Estimates vary, but about 40% of plastic waste comes from packaging.
Yet plastic has so far been the most effective tool to fight another environmental threat: food waste.
Selling produce is like holding a melting ice cube and asking how much someone will pay for it. Time is of the essence, and plastic works well to slow the decay of vegetables and fruit. That means less produce is tossed into the garbage, where it creates almost 60% of landfill methane emissions, according to a 2023 report by the Environmental Protection Agency.
A Swiss study in 2021 showed that each rotting cucumber thrown away has the equivalent environmental impact of 93 plastic cucumber wrappers.
Food is the most common material in landfills. The average American family of four spends $1,500 each year on food that ends up uneaten. Of that, fruits and vegetables make up nearly half of all household food waste, according to research from Michigan State University. And it’s not just the wasted food that adds to climate change. The farming and transportation wasted to produce food that is discarded impacts the climate, too.
Preventing food waste and reducing the use of plastic aren’t mutually exclusive goals. Both are high on the agenda of the Biden administration, which in December issued a draft of a national strategy to halve the nation’s food loss by 2030.
Are Americans on board?
Consumers increasingly report that using less plastic and packaging matters to them, but their shopping habits tell a different story. American shoppers bought $4.3 billion worth of bagged salad last year, according to the International Fresh Produce Association. Marketing experiments and independent research both show that price, quality and convenience drive food choices more than environmental concerns.
Grocers are having to make tough decisions, too. Shoppers have complained about having to buy produce that has already been packed in plastic and priced. Not selling by weight is easier for the store, whose workers don’t have to weigh each item. But it often forces shoppers to buy more than they need.
Battle lines seem to be drawn between the never-plastic crowd and shoppers who prefer the ease of fresh salad greens delivered to their door.
“The packaging conversation is being held hostage by one side or the other,” said Max Teplitski, chief science officer of the International Fresh Produce Association. He leads the Alliance for Sustainable Packaging for Foods, a collection of industry trade groups that formed in January.
The group’s priority is to make sure that any changes in packaging will keep food safe and preserve its quality.
What alternatives to plastic are coming?
Here are a few new ideas headed to the produce aisle:
Bags from trees. An Austrian company is using beechwood trees to make biodegradable cellulose net bags to hold produce. Other companies offer similar netting that decomposes within a few weeks.
Film from peels. Orange peels, shrimp shells and other natural waste is being turned into film that can be used like cellophane, or made into bags. An edible coating made from plant-based fatty acids is sprayed on cucumbers, avocados and other produce sold at many major grocery stores. They work in a way similar to the wax coating commonly used on citrus and apples.
Clamshells from cardboard. Plastic clamshells are a $9.1 billion business in the United States, and the number of growers who use them is vast. Replacing them will be an enormous challenge, particularly for more fragile fruits and vegetables. Plenty of designers are trying. Driscoll’s has been working to develop paper containers for use in the United States and Canada. In the meantime, the company is using more recycled plastic in its clamshells in the United States.
Ice that feels like gelatin. Luxin Wang and other scientists at the University of California, Davis, have invented reusable jelly ice. It is lighter than ice and doesn’t melt. It could eliminate the need for plastic ice packs, which can’t be recycled. After about a dozen uses, the jelly ice can be tossed into a garden or the garbage, where it dissolves.
Boxes with atmosphere. Broccoli is usually shipped in wax-coated boxes packed with ice. The soggy cartons can’t be recycled. Iceless broccoli shipping containers use a mix of gases that help preserve the vegetable instead of chilling it with ice, which is heavy to ship and can transmit viruses when it melts. Other sustainable, lighter shipping cartons are being designed to remove ethylene, a plant hormone that encourages ripening.
Containers from plants. Rice-paddy straw left over after harvests, grasses, sugar cane stalks and even food waste are all being turned into trays and boxes that are either biodegradable or can be composted.
Problem solved, right?
Hardly. Even if every grower and grocer started using packaging that could be recycled or composted, America’s infrastructure for turning it into something besides trash is spotty at best. Less than 10% of all plastic is recycled, a figure that is even lower for produce packaging, said Eva Almenar, a professor at Michigan State University’s School of Packaging. Only a small fraction of packaging labeled compostable stays out of the landfill.
Just 3% of wasted food lands at industrial composting centers. Several states have no commercial operations that can compost food waste.
“We don’t have right the technology, and we don’t have the collection systems,” Almenar said.
Even if the infrastructure were in place, people’s habits aren’t. “Consumers have no clue about what means green, compostable or recyclable,” she said.
Practically, no one has yet devised an affordable plastic alternative that can be recycled or composted and also keeps fruits and vegetables safe and fresh. Plastic allows packers to modify the mix of gases inside a package in a way that extends the shelf life and the quality of fresh produce.
“The pushback you are getting is that if you eliminate plastic and go to fiber, it depletes the shelf life really fast,” said Scott Crawford, vice president of merchandising for Baldor Specialty Foods and a veteran of both Whole Foods Market and Fresh Direct. “The question is which side of the balloon are you trying to squeeze?”
The ideal solution, he said, would be to go back to the days before plastic, when grocers stacked their produce by hand and no one demanded that seasonal fruit like blueberries be available year-round.
“I don’t think we’re going to live to see that,” he said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Cellulose; Fruits; Biodegradable materials; Landfill; Packaging; Food waste; Climate change; Vegetables; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Grocery stores

Location: New York; United States--US; Canada; Michigan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: University of California-Davis; NAICS: 611310; Name: Michigan State University; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Whole Foods Market Inc; European Union; California; Sustainable Living; Shopping And Retail; Lifestyle; Recycling Of Waste Materials; Food; United States; Waste Materials And Disposal; Plastics; Linkedin Corporation; Canada; International Trade And World Market; Containers And Packaging; Elections; University Of California, Davis; Supermarkets And Grocery Stores; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Severson, Kim; Baldor Specialty Foods; Europe; Environment; Environmental Protection Agency; Gardens And Gardening; Apples; Global Warming; Michigan; University Of California; Fruit; Advertising And Marketing; E Commerce; Health Foods; Ice; Freshdirect; Real Estate (Commercial); Jams And Jellies; France; Conservation Of Resources; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Vegetables; Salads; Michigan State University; Austria; Colleges And Universities; Compost; American Jobs Plan (2021); Cucumbers; Infrastructure (Public Works); Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Unwrapping Plastic’s Grip on Produce

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 2, 2024

Dateline: 2024-04-02T22:01:17Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3030898281

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unwrapping-plastic-s-grip-on-produce/docview/3030898281/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Small Investors Play Star Role In Disney Fight: [National Desk]

Author: Barnes, Brooks; Hirsch, Lauren

Publication info: Barnes, Brooks; Hirsch, Lauren. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-investors-play-star-role-disney-fight/docview/3020706964/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Individuals hold as much as 40 percent of the company's shares, and they may decide a proxy battle that is one of the most expensive in history.
Gavin Doyle used allowance money in 2009, when he was 11, to buy a few shares of Disney stock. They cost $ 31 apiece.
He now owns a little over 400 shares -- barely enough to be a speck of dust in the Disney investor galaxy. But the entertainment company, which has 1.8 billion shares outstanding, has nonetheless barraged him for months with political-style campaign materials (letters, email, social media ads) that urge him to elect certain people to its board.
"I guess every vote matters," said Mr. Doyle, 26, who runs MickeyVisit, a blog unaffiliated with Disney that focuses on theme park vacation planning.
In most cases, global companies pay little attention to individual shareholders. Powerful institutional investors like mutual funds and index funds typically run the show. But Disney finds itself in an atypical situation as it scrambles to thwart Nelson Peltz, an activist investor who is seeking two board seats, including one for himself.
Up to 40 percent of Disney shares are held by individuals -- retail investors, as Wall Street sometimes refers to them, with a hint of derision. On average among public companies, individuals represent closer to 15 percent of the ownership, according to analysts and academic studies.
"In the retail market, a lot of individuals don't feel comfortable investing in companies they've never heard of," said David Reibstein, a professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. "Disney is known: I can relate to it, I have taken my kids there, I've seen their movies."
In other words, the Disney-Peltz proxy battle, expected to be one of the most expensive in history, may be decided by the little people.
Disney's fight with Mr. Peltz will come to a head on Wednesday, when the company is scheduled to virtually host its annual shareholder meeting. A smaller activist investor, Blackwells Capital, is also seeking seats on Disney's board, to the company's irritation. While Mr. Peltz and Blackwells have sharply different views on how Disney should be managed -- one wants "Netflix-like margins" of up to 20 percent in streaming, the other has floated splitting up the company -- they have expressed the same basic motivation: Disney's stock price is not high enough.
Shares are trading at about $ 122, down from $ 197 three years ago.
Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, and the company's 12-member board have responded to the insurgents like Avengers battling Thanos -- that is, with startling force. They say a 13-month-old turnaround plan has taken hold, and point to drastically improved financials, a new strategy for ESPN in the streaming age and a retrenchment at Marvel Studios to improve movie quality, among other initiatives. Yes, Disney's stock is down from three years ago, but it's up from $ 81 six months ago.
Disney executives contend that Mr. Peltz's campaign is rooted in revenge. He is backed by Ike Perlmutter, the disgruntled former chairman of Marvel Entertainment, and aligned with Jay Rasulo, a former Disney executive who was passed over for the top job in 2015 and resigned. Elon Musk, who has been throwing elbows at Mr. Iger since November, when Disney and other major companies paused spending on X, has cheered on Mr. Peltz.
At first, Disney seemed poised to easily defeat Mr. Peltz. A parade of prominent shareholders (George Lucas, Laurene Powell Jobs), business titans (Jamie Dimon), analysts (Guggenheim, Macquarie), shareholder advisories (Glass Lewis, ValueEdge) and Disney family members (Abigail E. Disney) have advised against giving Mr. Peltz seats on the company's board.
But it has evolved into a much closer contest. Two weeks ago, an influential proxy firm, ISS, partly sided with Mr. Peltz, recommending that shareholders elect him to the board and advising against adding Mr. Rasulo. ISS largely cited Disney's botched succession planning. On Tuesday, Mr. Peltz won the backing of Egan-Jones, another advisory firm.
Until ISS weighed in, "I was pretty sure that Peltz was kind of cooked," said Michael Levin, an independent activist investor and adviser who oversees the Activist Investor website. Mr. Levin estimated that ISS's recommendation could influence 5 to 10 percent of Disney's vote, with institutional shareholders like Vanguard and BlackRock likely to pay close attention.
Mom-and-pop shareholders are more of a mystery. Retail investors are frequently apathetic, even in the face of a contest, proxy experts say. "You have to find a way to connect with somebody who doesn't have a requirement to vote, who doesn't necessarily have it within their routine," Bruce Goldfarb, the chief executive of Okapi Partners, a proxy solicitation firm working with Mr. Peltz, said at a recent conference.
Disney and Mr. Peltz have each been spending heavily to get out the small-fry vote. Trian Partners, Mr. Peltz's investment firm, said in a securities filing that it expected to spend about $ 25 million in total on its campaign; it hired Okapi and another firm, D.F. King, to help identify shareholders and encourage them to vote. Disney, which has teamed with the firm Innisfree M&A, among others, has priced its countercampaign at up to $ 40 million.
In part to appeal to individual shareholders, Disney has deployed characters like Moana and Iron Man to solicit votes. In February, the company released an animated video starring Donald Duck's uncle, Professor Ludwig Von Drake. "Voting this year is critical no matter how many or how few shares you may own," a narrator says. "Do not vote for the Trian Group or Blackwells' nominees."
Mr. Peltz responded with a letter to Disney shareholders that included a cartoon showing bored and haggard board members and a messy bowl of noodles. "Spaghetti on the wall will not feed shareholders starved of returns" was the letter's headline.
Douglas Chia, the president of Soundboard Governance, which advises on corporate governance, got calls from both sides of the battle. Mr. Chia, who says he owns a couple hundred shares of Disney, said he was left unimpressed by the first call on Trian's behalf. (Mr. Chia conceded that his professional background trained him to ask questions a traditional retail investor might not.)
After he posted about it on LinkedIn, he got a follow-up call from Trian directly, underlining just how much each side is paying attention to every vote.
"These were very senior people at Trian who talked to me for about 45 minutes," Mr. Chia said. "And it's like: The meeting is less than a week away -- they could be on the phone with BlackRock." (Mr. Chia said he was not persuaded by Trian's arguments, but appreciated the follow-up call.)
Retail investors tend to side with management in proxy contests. In the case of Disney, many of these shareholders are fans.
Cori Borgstadt has been a Disney stockholder since 2008, when her grandmother gave her a single share for Christmas. She was 3. Ms. Borgstadt, who has continued to acquire shares, said she had read a few news articles about the proxy contest but had largely disregarded Trian's case.
"I admire Bob Iger, and I trust him to know what's right," Ms. Borgstadt said. "So I voted the white slate." (Each side has a ballot -- white for Disney, blue for Trian.)
Still, experts say there is one big factor in Disney's fight that may affect the instinct of fans to support Mr. Iger. It involves politics.
Disney has become a political punching bag in recent years, partly because it has added openly gay, lesbian and queer characters to its animated movies. The emphasis on diversity in some of Disney's live-action films, including "The Little Mermaid" and "The Marvels," has also led to fan complaints. Although Disney has also received positive reactions, the blowback -- and poor ticket sales for some of the films in question -- has prompted Disney to retrench.
In what some proxy solicitation experts viewed as an appeal to disenfranchised Disney fans, Mr. Peltz recently waded into the "woke Disney" debate by commenting about "The Marvels," which focused on female superheroes, and "Black Panther," which had an all-Black principal cast.
"Why do I have to have a Marvel that's all women? Not that I have anything against women, but why do I have to do that?" Mr. Peltz told The Financial Times. "Why can't I have Marvels that are both? Why do I need an all-Black cast?"
The move could "backfire against him -- there's presumably a lot of Disney investors who support diversity in the content," said Scott Bisang, a partner at Collected Strategies, a communications firm. "But I don't think he would be doing that unless he thought there was sort of a supportive audience for it."
Mr. Peltz has been victorious in proxy fights with retail investors before. In 2017, he won what was then the most expensive proxy fight in history at Procter & Gamble with a margin of about 0.0016 percent. (The sides spent about $ 60 million, or $ 77 million in today's money.)
But he lost a hotly contested proxy contest with DuPont in 2015, with studies citing retail investors as one reason.
As Mr. Peltz said in a January securities filing detailing some of Trian's outreach to Disney shareholders, "Every vote counts!"
Photograph Nelson Peltz, left, is an activist investor who is seeking two seats on Disney's board, including one for himself. Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of Disney, is trying to thwart his proxy fight. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AHMED GABER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; HAIYUN JIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) This article appeared in print on page A1, A22.

Subject: Stock prices; Shareholder voting; Motion pictures; Activists; Institutional investments; Succession planning; Stockholders; Investors; Proxy solicitation; Shareholder activism; Executives; Boards of directors

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock prices Shareholder voting Institutional investments Succession planning Stockholders Proxy solicitation Shareholder activism Executives Boards of directors

Location: United States--US

People: Iger, Robert

Company / organization: Name: Okapi; NAICS: 316992; Name: Walt Disney Co; NAICS: 512110, 516120, 711211, 713110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/30/business/media/disney-shareholders-proxy-battle.html

Title: Small Investors Play Star Role In Disney Fight:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 1, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3020706964

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-investors-play-star-role-disney-fight/docview/3020706964/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Deep-Sixing Pornographic Deepfakes: [Letter]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/deep-sixing-pornographic-deepfakes/docview/3020706940/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: To the Editor:
Re "Deepfake Violations, Met With a Shrug," by Nicholas Kristof (column, March 24):
Mr. Kristof underscores the urgent need to address the distressing prevalence of nonconsensual A.I. sexual content online and in top search engine results, to protect individuals, particularly the women and girls overwhelmingly targeted, from exploitation and harm.
I urge all readers to raise their voices by sending letters, emails or open letters tagged on social media and LinkedIn to Google and Microsoft Bing executives and social media teams. Our collective advocacy can amplify the call for these tech giants to take proactive measures in removing such content from their search results.
In an era when technological advancements outpace regulatory frameworks, it is imperative that entities like Google and Microsoft take responsible, decisive action to uphold ethical standards online. Together, we can make a significant difference in creating a safer digital landscape for all.
Brittany Poley
Washington
To the Editor:
From Nicholas Kristof's column: "She passed another group of girls crying for the same reason -- and a cluster of boys mocking them. 'When I saw the boys laughing, I got so mad,' Francesca said. 'After school, I came home, and I told my mom we need to do something about this.'
Why was Francesca allowed by school staff to leave the assistant principal's office (alone, it seems) to go back to class, instead of being taken out of that hellhole for the day? Why were those boys allowed by the school staff to cluster in the hallways? Why were those boys allowed by school staff to continue saying what they did?
Why were those boys not immediately removed from the hallways by the school staff? Why were the school staff (especially the male staff members) not explaining to those boys what they did wrong and why, and disciplining them? Why did school staff not report those boys to their parents?
The overwhelming isolation and continuing exposure of Francesca and other victims to mocking boys were appalling.
Phillipa Rispin
Montreal
To the Editor:
More than five years ago, publicly available, nonpornographic photographs of me taken between the age of 14 and 21 were posted on pornographic websites. The same thing happened to more than 20 other women I had gone to high school with.
The perpetrator had included our names when uploading the photographs and called on viewers to describe exactly what they would like to do to us. One of my photos included my first and last names and the name of my former school.
It was clear that the perpetrator had to be someone with whom we had all gone to high school -- someone we knew, someone who knew us. That added to the torment.
We contacted the police. Laws concerning harassment and the right to decide how one's image is used enabled the police to begin a full investigation in which the perpetrator was identified and ultimately convicted of a more serious crime, distributing child pornography. I won a civil suit against him.
On one website, the perpetrator had asked others to photoshop our pictures to make them pornographic. Reading Nicholas Kristof's article, I am relieved that the technology for low-effort deepfakes was not easily available at the time. I just wish girls and women in the United States were better protected now that it is.
Miriam Betz
Cologne, Germany
To the Editor:
Why must the burden fall on girls and women to defend themselves against online exploitation? Why are we not extending the responsibility to parents and teachers of boys to educate them about technology, misogyny and ethics?
As a mother of two teenage boys, I've witnessed the inappropriate use (abuse) of technology firsthand and have spent countless hours overseeing their devices and instructing them how to use them responsibly.
Their actions are innocent and age-appropriate in almost every case; however, they don't understand how everything they do online is essentially public, and how seemingly innocuous messaging (in their minds) can be misinterpreted, taken out of context, go viral and possibly do immense damage.
Schools and parents are arming kids with tools that easily turn into weapons when their proper use is not taught, and the arming begins when kids are toddlers and parents use the smartphone as a babysitter. It's insane.
Get the smartphones out of childhood, and out of schools, and maybe we won't have to put girls and women in the awful position of being eternal victims. Society has created this mess, and society needs to clean it up. Stop making it a women's problem to deal with, and change the way we educate our boys.
Julie Bayer Salzman
Venice, Calif.
To the Editor:
Nicholas Kristof indicates that no laws are being clearly broken and that no laws can be enforced.
One solution is to help women and girls file class-action lawsuits against digital platforms -- be they porn or Google -- that derive any financial benefit for copyright infringement. These lawsuits can charge the platforms with financially benefiting from the unauthorized access of another's name, image or likeness (NIL in digital parlance).
If a company can't make money off an activity, or if their normal means of driving revenue is threatened by an activity, that company changes. It may not be a moral or legislative solution, but it can be effective nonetheless. Coordinate with state attorneys general, as occurred with the tobacco settlements, and states will jump at the chance to take money from online platforms.
Alexander Byington
Lone Tree, Colo.
To the Editor:
I'm grateful The Times covers human trafficking, pornography and abuse with depth and care, and I've been a fan of Nicholas Kristof for decades.
Still, I would like to argue that the use of the term "nonconsensual pornography" is problematic at best. While I understand the usefulness of the distinction regarding consent, the phrase is politically weighted, as it suggests a position about the victimless nature of pornography.
There is an argument to be made that because of the confines of our society, gender and monetary dynamics, as well as the way abuse affects and tracks its victims, no pornography is consensual. While I don't expect The Times or Mr. Kristof to take that position, I think it would be meaningful not to propagate language that excluded the possibility.
Jennifer Flescher
Melrose, Mass.
To the Editor:
Ah, ain't technology innovation wonderful? Unfortunately, not this one.
While reading Nicholas Kristof's column, I couldn't help thinking again of how society seems to have no problem with celebrity women -- mainly movie and TV stars -- participating in red carpet walks before award events flaunting designer clothing that barely conceals breasts and sometimes nearly exposes genitals, while their male escorts are covered neck to toe in formal suits.
Even in day-to-day life, women's clothing is often somewhat revealing or chest-enhancing while men are mostly fully covered in suits and ties, or even in casual attire.
Now A.I. is making it worse.
I don't want to see Western societies adopt the strict clothing standards for women in the Middle East. But why can't our society adopt a respectable-clothing standard that is equal for both sexes?
James P. Brown
Rio Rancho, N.M.
Analyzing Trump Voters? Spare Me.
To the Editor:
Re "How Trump's Base Has Changed, According to a Pollster," by Jane Coaston (Opinion, nytimes.com, March 18):
Good Lord, spare us from even more analysis of Trump voters. As if these people will let the facts get in the way of their undying and blind support for this con artist and hopefully soon-to-be-convicted felon.
Every time I read an article like this one, or see the news media playing both-sides-ism interviewing a Trump supporter, my anxiety only increases.
One such supporter said on TV recently that America needs a dictator. Another said that if Donald Trump actually shot someone it would not shake his support for the former president. There is no reasoning with people who have sunk that far down the political rabbit hole. Frankly, I don't really care what they think.
Look, the November election comes down to a very, very simple choice: People can vote for a decent human being, a man with vast political experience who is not afraid to compromise, a caring and empathetic person with a moral center who actually knows how to govern. A man who has a positive vision for the country.
Or they can vote for Donald Trump.
Len DiSesa
Dresher, Pa.
A 'Deep State' Makeover
To the Editor:
Re "It Turns Out the 'Deep State' Is Actually Kind of Awesome," by Adam Westbrook and Lindsay Crouse (Opinion video, nytimes.com, March 19):
Thank you for showing some of the faces and hard work done by the "deep state" workers. Most people I've talked to in government organizations are hardworking and trying to do their best. They're our neighbors and fellow citizens, too!
Why not defuse Donald Trump's scary deep state boogeyman and make the deep state a badge of honor? Imagine a softball team from federal government agencies with "Deep State Bliss" T-shirts! Soccer moms and dads with "Hug a Deep Stater" T-shirts. Employment recruitment tables with "Deep State" baseball caps.
The "deep state" needs a P.R. makeover highlighting human connections.
Rob Pauley
Boulder, Colo.
This article appeared in print on page A21.

Subject: Clothing; Children & youth; Smartphones; Women; Voters; Society; Social networks; Pornography & obscenity

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Social networks

People: Trump, Donald J

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/31/opinion/pornography-deepfakes.html

Title: Deep-Sixing Pornographic Deepfakes:   [Letter ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.21

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 1, 2024

column: Letters

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Letter

ProQuest document ID: 3020706940

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/deep-sixing-pornographic-deepfakes/docview/3020706940/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Disney, Small Shareholders Loom Large in Boardroom Fight

Author: Barnes, Brooks; Hirsch, Lauren

Publication info: Barnes, Brooks; Hirsch, Lauren. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/disney-small-shareholders-loom-large-boardroom/docview/3020615311/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Gavin Doyle used allowance money in 2009, when he was 11, to buy a few shares of Disney stock. They cost $31 apiece.
He now owns a little over 400 shares — barely enough to be a speck of dust in the Disney investor galaxy. But the entertainment company, which has 1.8 billion shares outstanding, has nonetheless barraged him for months with political-style campaign materials (letters, email, social media ads) that urge him to elect certain people to its board.
“I guess every vote matters,” said Doyle, 26, who runs MickeyVisit, a blog unaffiliated with Disney that focuses on theme park vacation planning.
In most cases, global companies pay little attention to individual shareholders. Powerful institutional investors like mutual funds and index funds typically run the show. But Disney finds itself in an atypical situation as it scrambles to thwart Nelson Peltz, an activist investor who is seeking two board seats, including one for himself.
Up to 40% of Disney shares are held by individuals — retail investors, as Wall Street sometimes refers to them, with a hint of derision. On average among public companies, individuals represent closer to 15% of the ownership, according to analysts and academic studies.
“In the retail market, a lot of individuals don’t feel comfortable investing in companies they’ve never heard of,” said David Reibstein, a professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. “Disney is known: I can relate to it, I have taken my kids there, I’ve seen their movies.”
In other words, the Disney-Peltz proxy battle, expected to be one of the most expensive in history, may be decided by the little people.
Disney’s fight with Peltz will come to a head Wednesday, when the company is scheduled to virtually host its annual shareholder meeting. A smaller activist investor, Blackwells Capital, is also seeking seats on Disney’s board, to the company’s irritation. While Peltz and Blackwells have sharply different views on how Disney should be managed — one wants “Netflix-like margins” of up to 20% in streaming, the other has floated splitting up the company — they have expressed the same basic motivation: Disney’s stock price is not high enough.
Shares are trading at about $122, down from $197 three years ago.
Bob Iger, Disney’s CEO, and the company’s 12-member board have responded to the insurgents like Avengers battling Thanos — that is, with startling force. They say a 13-month-old turnaround plan has taken hold, and point to drastically improved financials, a new strategy for ESPN in the streaming age and a retrenchment at Marvel Studios to improve movie quality, among other initiatives. Yes, Disney’s stock is down from three years ago, but it’s up from $81 six months ago.
Disney executives contend that Peltz’s campaign is rooted in revenge. He is backed by Ike Perlmutter, the disgruntled former chair of Marvel Entertainment, and aligned with Jay Rasulo, a former Disney executive who was passed over for the top job in 2015 and resigned. Elon Musk, who has been throwing elbows at Iger since November, when Disney and other major companies paused spending on X (formerly Twitter), has cheered on Peltz.
At first, Disney seemed poised to easily defeat Peltz. A parade of prominent shareholders (George Lucas, Laurene Powell Jobs), business titans (Jamie Dimon), analysts (Guggenheim, Macquarie), shareholder advisories (Glass Lewis, ValueEdge) and Disney family members (Abigail E. Disney) have advised against giving Peltz seats on the company’s board.
But it has evolved into a much closer contest. Two weeks ago, an influential proxy firm, ISS, partly sided with Peltz, recommending that shareholders elect him to the board and advising against adding Rasulo. ISS largely cited Disney’s botched succession planning. On Tuesday, Peltz won the backing of Egan-Jones, another advisory firm.
Until ISS weighed in, “I was pretty sure that Peltz was kind of cooked,” said Michael Levin, an independent activist investor and adviser who oversees the Activist Investor website. Levin estimated that ISS’ recommendation could influence 5% to 10% of Disney’s vote, with institutional shareholders like Vanguard and BlackRock likely to pay close attention.
Mom-and-pop shareholders are more of a mystery. Retail investors are frequently apathetic, even in the face of a contest, proxy experts say. “You have to find a way to connect with somebody who doesn’t have a requirement to vote, who doesn’t necessarily have it within their routine,” Bruce Goldfarb, the CEO of Okapi Partners, a proxy solicitation firm working with Peltz, said at a recent conference.
Disney and Peltz have each been spending heavily to get out the small-fry vote. Trian Partners, Peltz’s investment firm, said in a securities filing that it expected to spend about $25 million in total on its campaign; it hired Okapi and another firm, D.F. King, to help identify shareholders and encourage them to vote. Disney, which has teamed with the firm Innisfree M&A, among others, has priced its countercampaign at up to $40 million.
In part to appeal to individual shareholders, Disney has deployed characters like Moana and Iron Man to solicit votes. In February, the company released an animated video starring Donald Duck’s uncle, Professor Ludwig Von Drake. “Voting this year is critical no matter how many or how few shares you may own,” a narrator says. “Do not vote for the Trian Group or Blackwells’ nominees.”
Peltz responded with a letter to Disney shareholders that included a cartoon showing bored and haggard board members and a messy bowl of noodles. “Spaghetti on the wall will not feed shareholders starved of returns” was the letter’s headline.
Douglas Chia, the president of Soundboard Governance, which advises on corporate governance, got calls from both sides of the battle. Chia, who says he owns a couple hundred shares of Disney, said he was left unimpressed by the first call on Trian’s behalf. (Chia conceded that his professional background trained him to ask questions a traditional retail investor might not.)
After he posted about it on LinkedIn, he got a follow-up call from Trian directly, underlining just how much each side is paying attention to every vote.
“These were very senior people at Trian who talked to me for about 45 minutes,” Chia said. “And it’s like: The meeting is less than a week away — they could be on the phone with BlackRock.” (Chia said he was not persuaded by Trian’s arguments but appreciated the follow-up call.)
Retail investors tend to side with management in proxy contests. In the case of Disney, many of these shareholders are fans.
Cori Borgstadt has been a Disney stockholder since 2008, when her grandmother gave her a single share for Christmas. She was 3. Borgstadt, who has continued to acquire shares, said she had read a few news articles about the proxy contest but had largely disregarded Trian’s case.
“I admire Bob Iger, and I trust him to know what’s right,” Borgstadt said. “So I voted the white slate.” (Each side has a ballot — white for Disney, blue for Trian.)
Still, experts say there is one big factor in Disney’s fight that may affect the instinct of fans to support Iger. It involves politics.
Disney has become a political punching bag in recent years, partly because it has added openly gay, lesbian and queer characters to its animated movies. The emphasis on diversity in some of Disney’s live-action films, including “The Little Mermaid” and “The Marvels,” has also led to fan complaints. Although Disney has also received positive reactions, the blowback — and poor ticket sales for some of the films in question — has prompted Disney to retrench.
In what some proxy solicitation experts viewed as an appeal to disenfranchised Disney fans, Peltz recently waded into the “woke Disney” debate by commenting about “The Marvels,” which focused on female superheroes, and “Black Panther,” which had an all-Black principal cast.
“Why do I have to have a Marvel that’s all women? Not that I have anything against women, but why do I have to do that?” Peltz told The Financial Times. “Why can’t I have Marvels that are both? Why do I need an all-Black cast?”
The move could “backfire against him — there’s presumably a lot of Disney investors who support diversity in the content,” said Scott Bisang, a partner at Collected Strategies, a communications firm. “But I don’t think he would be doing that unless he thought there was sort of a supportive audience for it.”
Peltz has been victorious in proxy fights with retail investors before. In 2017, he won what was then the most expensive proxy fight in history at Procter & Gamble with a margin of about 0.0016%. (The sides spent about $60 million, or $77 million in today’s money.)
But he lost a hotly contested proxy contest with DuPont in 2015, with studies citing retail investors as one reason.
As Peltz said in a January securities filing detailing some of Trian’s outreach to Disney shareholders, “Every vote counts!”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Stock prices; Shareholder voting; Motion pictures; Activists; Succession planning; Institutional investments; Stockholders; Investors; Proxy solicitation; Executives; Shareholder activism

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock prices Shareholder voting Succession planning Institutional investments Stockholders Proxy solicitation Executives Shareholder activism

People: Iger, Robert

Company / organization: Name: Okapi; NAICS: 316992

Identifier / keyword: Movies; Procter & Gamble Co; Shareholder Rights And Activism; Marvel Entertainment; Social Media; Collected Strategies Llc; Pennsylvania; Musk, Elon; Stocks And Bonds; Trian Fund Management Lp; Peltz, Nelson; Fans (Persons); Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Hedge Funds; Netflix Inc; Linkedin Corporation; Okapi Partners Llc; Iger, Robert A; Espn; Amusement And Theme Parks; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Black Panther Party; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Boards Of Directors; Shopping And Retail; Lucas, George; Public Relations And Publicity; Glass, Lewis & Co Llc; Perlmutter, Isaac (1942 ); Blackwells Capital Llc; Mutual Funds; Drake University; Education (K 12); Polls And Public Opinion; Marvel Studios; Innisfree M & A Inc; Walt Disney Company; Vanguard Group Inc; Egan Jones Ratings Co; Wharton School Of The University Of Pennsylvania; Guggenheim, Solomon R, Museum; Television; Financial Times; Blackrock Inc; University Of Pennsylvania; Business; Colleges And Universities

Title: For Disney, Small Shareholders Loom Large in Boardroom Fight

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 31, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-31T22:15:05Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3020615311

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/disney-small-shareholders-loom-large-boardroom/docview/3020615311/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tariff Fight Over Solar In Germany: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tariff-fight-over-solar-germany/docview/3014685628/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Domestic manufacturers are caught between China's low prices and U.S. protectionist policies, even as demand increases.
Before China came to dominate the solar panel industry, Germany led the way. It was the world's largest producer of solar panels, with several start-ups clustered in the former East Germany, until about a decade ago when China ramped up production and undercut just about everyone on price.
Now as Germany and the rest of Europe try to reach ambitious goals to cut greenhouse gas emissions, the demand for solar panels has only increased.
Some of the last remaining manufacturers in Germany's solar industry are not ready to give up.
They are demanding that the government in Berlin offer incentives to protect producers that have survived by catering to niche markets and expanding beyond making panels. They argue that Europe's high standards for the origin of materials and shorter supply chains make production in Germany more environmentally friendly and reliable.
Not everyone is convinced protectionism is the way to go. Some critics note that the European Union's tariffs on Chinese solar panels from 2013 to 2018 failed to save the domestic industry. Others argue that affordable, widely available solar panels are desperately needed regardless of their origin.
Because Europe relies "to a very important degree" on imported solar panels, any measure to restrict imports "needs to be weighed against the objectives we have set ourselves when it comes to the energy transition," Mairead McGuinness, the European commissioner for financial stability, told the European Parliament last month.
But for European solar manufacturers, the problem has gotten worse in the past year. Not only have the Chinese increased their production of solar panels, but the United States tightened its tariffs to include Chinese panels shipped to Southeast Asian countries for final assembly. That has caused a flood of Chinese panels to reach Europe at below-market prices, government officials and company executives say, crushing any chance at fair competition.
Last year, more than 97 percent of the solar panels installed on roofs and in fields across Europe were made abroad, the vast majority in China, where cheap energy and government support keep prices low.
"Chinese competitors are currently giving away their products in unimaginable quantities in Europe at far below their own production costs," said an open letter to the government written by Gunter Erfurt, the chief executive of Meyer Burger, a Swiss solar energy company that has two factories and a research center in Germany.
"We are fighting for fair market conditions, which have not existed for just under a year," Mr. Erfurt wrote.
Mr. Erfurt's appeal cited several other German companies involved in solar production that all want the government to help shore up the industry in the face of the fierce competition from China.
The German Solar Association is calling on the government to push through a proposed incentive, called a "resilience bonus," that would pay solar panel owners a higher rate for electricity that is fed into the grid from domestically produced panels.
"While other countries such as the United States and China are strongly promoting the establishment and scaling up of solar gigafactories, the German government has yet to take concrete action," the group warned in January.
To meet its ambitious climate goals, Germany needs to generate an additional 80 gigawatts of solar power annually. But last year, the country installed enough to generate just 9 gigawatts -- and domestic photovoltaic companies say they have the capacity to produce only about 1 gigawatt of solar power per year.
That reality has led to a bitter dispute within the German solar industry, where some believe subsidies will do more harm than good.
Philipp Schröder, a former Tesla executive who runs 1Komma5, a solar company he co-founded, said it got its components mainly from Europe and the United States and successfully competed against low-cost Chinese panels by bundling panels with heat pumps, batteries and software to run the complete system. He is against any form of government support.
"The resilience bonus being discussed in Germany right now might be beneficial for a few profiteers in the short term, but in the medium term it acts like an addictive drug that suppresses innovation and fragments the E.U. market," Mr. Schröder said in a post on LinkedIn.
This month, Meyer Burger deepened the dispute when it halted production at a facility in Freiberg in the eastern German state of Saxony and said it would shift the company's focus to expanding production in Arizona and Colorado. There, it can take advantage of U.S. tariffs imposed on Chinese panels and incentives offered through the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act.
"Due to a lack of European protection against unfair competition from China, nearly four years of hard work by great employees in Europe is at risk," the board of Sentis Capital Cell 3 PC, the largest shareholder in Meyer Burger, said in a statement. In a slap at German lawmakers, the board cited "strong bipartisan commitment" in Washington "to protect U.S.-based companies against unfair competition."
Further stoking anger in the solar industry are the billions in subsidies that the government has pledged to attract other companies, including the battery producer Northvolt and the microchip manufacturers Intel and TSMC, as it appears stymied over the question of how to handle solar.
Sven Giegold, an under secretary in the Economy Ministry, told reporters this month that Germany would propose measures to help "support the local production of solar technology," but quickly added: "Trade defense measures are not helpful."
Germany has been here before. In the early 2000s, a combination of government incentives, scientific research and cutting-edge technology helped make its solar industry the world's leading producer of photovoltaic panels and technology.
Then manufacturers from abroad, especially China, caught on and sold solar panels at prices well below what the Germans were offering. The impact was swift and brutal. Companies such as Q-Cells, Solon and SolarWorld declared bankruptcy and disappeared. But some businesses held on by focusing on assembling, installing and integrating solar panels in comprehensive green power systems.
Simone Tagliapietra, a senior fellow at Bruegel, the Brussels-based think tank, said he agreed that new tariffs would not make sense. To achieve a secure supply of panels, as well as support the green transition and economic growth, he suggested that Europe instead support development of new solar technologies.
"Go for the new generation of solar panels, products that are still at the forefront of innovation," Mr. Tagliapietra said. "If we cannot beat the Chinese on quantity, we need to try to beat them on quality."
Solarwatt, based in the former East Germany, said it might also have to close one of its solar panel plants. But making panels is only one part of the company; it also creates systems that connect the power generated by solar panels to wall boxes that can charge cars and heat pumps to warm homes.
"The future of our company is not a risk, even if production had to be shut down," the company said in a statement, adding that other divisions could absorb the roughly 120 people whose jobs would be at stake.
Meyer Burger's decision to shut its plant in Freiberg has left as many as 500 jobs in limbo. The company's chief executive, Mr. Erfurt, said the factory's future depended on political leaders in Berlin. "But we don't see a bridge being built from the government at the moment," he said.
At the same time, the company is contemplating other alternatives, he said, adding that "one option is simply to dismantle and rebuild it in U.S."
Photograph Meyer Burger's facility in Thalheim. The company has closed another plant in Freiberg, but said it would reopen it if the government in Berlin offered the support of subsidies or tariffs. Manufacturers in Germany are caught between China's low prices and U.S. protectionist policies, even as demand increases. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK JUNKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Solar energy; Emission standards; Subsidies; Protectionism; Competition; Incentives; Tariffs; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Subsidies Protectionism Incentives Tariffs Factories

Location: China; United States--US; Germany; East Germany; Europe

URL: http s://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/25/business/germany-solar-panels-china-protectionism.html

Title: Tariff Fight Over Solar In Germany:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 30, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3014685628

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tariff-fight-over-solar-germany/docview/3014685628/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Germany’s Solar Panel Industry, Once a Leader, Is Getting Squeezed

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/germany-s-solar-panel-industry-once-leader-is/docview/3014688901/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BERLIN — Before China came to dominate the solar panel industry, Germany led the way. It was the world’s largest producer of solar panels, with several startups clustered in the former East Germany, until about a decade ago when China ramped up production and undercut just about everyone on price.
Now as Germany and the rest of Europe try to reach ambitious goals to cut greenhouse gas emissions, the demand for solar panels has only increased.
Some of the last remaining manufacturers in Germany’s solar industry are not ready to give up.
They are demanding that the government in Berlin offer incentives to protect producers that have survived by catering to niche markets and expanding beyond making panels. They argue that Europe’s high standards for the origin of materials and shorter supply chains make production in Germany more environmentally friendly and reliable.
Not everyone is convinced protectionism is the way to go. Some critics note that the European Union’s tariffs on Chinese solar panels from 2013 to 2018 failed to save the domestic industry. Others argue that affordable, widely available solar panels are desperately needed regardless of their origin.
Because Europe relies “to a very important degree” on imported solar panels, any measure to restrict imports “needs to be weighed against the objectives we have set ourselves when it comes to the energy transition,” Mairead McGuinness, the European commissioner for financial stability, told the European Parliament last month.
But for European solar manufacturers, the problem has gotten worse in the past year. Not only have the Chinese increased their production of solar panels, but the United States tightened its tariffs to include Chinese panels shipped to Southeast Asian countries for final assembly. That has caused a flood of Chinese panels to reach Europe at below-market prices, government officials and company executives say, crushing any chance at fair competition.
Last year, more than 97% of the solar panels installed on roofs and in fields across Europe were made abroad, the vast majority in China, where cheap energy and government support keep prices low.
“Chinese competitors are currently giving away their products in unimaginable quantities in Europe at far below their own production costs,” said an open letter to the government written by Gunter Erfurt, the CEO of Meyer Burger, a Swiss solar energy company that has two factories and a research center in Germany.
“We are fighting for fair market conditions, which have not existed for just under a year,” Erfurt wrote.
Erfurt’s appeal cited several other German companies involved in solar production that all want the government to help shore up the industry in the face of the fierce competition from China.
The German Solar Association is calling on the government to push through a proposed incentive, called a “resilience bonus,” that would pay solar panel owners a higher rate for electricity that is fed into the grid from domestically produced panels.
“While other countries such as the United States and China are strongly promoting the establishment and scaling up of solar gigafactories, the German government has yet to take concrete action,” the group warned in January.
To meet its ambitious climate goals, Germany needs to generate an additional 80 gigawatts of solar power annually. But last year, the country installed enough to generate just 9 gigawatts — and domestic photovoltaic companies say they have the capacity to produce only about 1 gigawatt of solar power per year.
That reality has led to a bitter dispute within the German solar industry, where some believe subsidies will do more harm than good.
Philipp Schröder, a former Tesla executive who runs 1Komma5, a solar company he co-founded, said it got its components mainly from Europe and the United States and successfully competed against low-cost Chinese panels by bundling panels with heat pumps, batteries and software to run the complete system. He is against any form of government support.
“The resilience bonus being discussed in Germany right now might be beneficial for a few profiteers in the short term, but in the medium term it acts like an addictive drug that suppresses innovation and fragments the EU market,” Schröder said in a post on LinkedIn.
This month, Meyer Burger deepened the dispute when it halted production at a facility in Freiberg in the eastern German state of Saxony and said it would shift the company’s focus to expanding production in Arizona and Colorado. There, it can take advantage of U.S. tariffs imposed on Chinese panels and incentives offered through the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act.
“Due to a lack of European protection against unfair competition from China, nearly four years of hard work by great employees in Europe is at risk,” the board of Sentis Capital Cell 3 PC, the largest shareholder in Meyer Burger, said in a statement. In a slap at German lawmakers, the board cited “strong bipartisan commitment” in Washington “to protect U.S.-based companies against unfair competition.”
Further stoking anger in the solar industry are the billions in subsidies that the government has pledged to attract other companies, including battery producer Northvolt and microchip manufacturers Intel and TSMC, as it appears stymied over the question of how to handle solar.
Sven Giegold, an undersecretary in the Economy Ministry, told reporters this month that Germany would propose measures to help “support the local production of solar technology,” but quickly added: “Trade defense measures are not helpful.”
Germany has been here before. In the early 2000s, a combination of government incentives, scientific research and cutting-edge technology helped make its solar industry the world’s leading producer of photovoltaic panels and technology.
Then manufacturers from abroad, especially China, caught on and sold solar panels at prices well below what the Germans were offering. The impact was swift and brutal. Companies such as Q-Cells, Solon and SolarWorld declared bankruptcy and disappeared. But some businesses held on by focusing on assembling, installing and integrating solar panels in comprehensive green power systems.
Simone Tagliapietra, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based think tank, said he agreed that new tariffs would not make sense. To achieve a secure supply of panels, as well as support the green transition and economic growth, he suggested that Europe instead support development of new solar technologies.
“Go for the new generation of solar panels, products that are still at the forefront of innovation,” Tagliapietra said. “If we cannot beat the Chinese on quantity, we need to try to beat them on quality.”
Solarwatt, based in the former East Germany, said it might also have to close one of its solar panel plants. But making panels is only one part of the company; it also creates systems that connect the power generated by solar panels to wall boxes that can charge cars and heat pumps to warm homes.
“The future of our company is not a risk, even if production had to be shut down,” the company said in a statement, adding that other divisions could absorb the roughly 120 people whose jobs would be at stake.
Meyer Burger’s decision to shut its plant in Freiberg has left as many as 500 jobs in limbo. The company’s CEO, Erfurt, said the factory’s future depended on political leaders in Berlin. “But we don’t see a bridge being built from the government at the moment,” he said.
At the same time, the company is contemplating other alternatives, he said, adding that “one option is simply to dismantle and rebuild it in U.S.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Solar energy; Tariffs; Emission standards; Subsidies; Protectionism; Competition; Factories; Incentives

Business indexing term: Subject: Tariffs Subsidies Protectionism Factories Incentives

Location: New York; United States--US; Germany; East Germany; China; Eu rope

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Politics And Government; Innovation; Global Warming; Erfurt (Germany); Factories And Manufacturing; Two Thousands (Decade); Start Ups; Brussels (Belgium); Foreign Workers; Production; Air Pollution; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Economic Conditions And Trends; Washington (State); Linkedin Corporation; Arizona; International Trade And World Market; Bankruptcies; Customs (Tariff); European Union; Saxony (Germany); Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Protectionism (Trade); Europe; Northvolt Ab; Germany; Shutdowns (Institutional); International Relations; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; United States International Relations; Colorado; Batteries; East Germany; Berlin (Germany); Solar Energy; Tesla, Nikola; Government Contracts And Procurement; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; European Parliament; Heating; Supply Chain; Washington (Dc); Business; Solarworld Ag; Intel Corporation; Hamburgers

Title: Germany’s Solar Panel Industry, Once a Leader, Is Getting Squeezed

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 29, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-29T22:12:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3014688901

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/germany-s-solar-panel-industry-once-leader-is/docview/3014688901/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Magazine Comes Back To 'Life' After Deal: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mattu, Ravi; Warner, Bernhard; Kessler, Sarah; Michael J. De La Merced; Hirsch, Lauren; Livni, Ephrat

Publication info: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mattu, Ravi; Warner, Bernhard; Kessler, Sarah; Michael J. De La Merced; et al. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/magazine-comes-back-life-after-deal/docview/3013910314/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The investor Josh Kushner and his wife, Karlie Kloss, have struck a deal with Barry Diller's media company to revive it as a regular print title.
Kushner and Kloss take over Life magazine
Life, the iconic photography-focused chronicler of the 20th century, has taken on many forms, including a weekly magazine, a website and the occasional special issue.
Now, it is set to resume regular print publication, thanks to a deal between Barry Diller's IAC and Josh Kushner, the venture capitalist whose Thrive Capital is one of the biggest investors in OpenAI, and his wife, the entrepreneur and model Karlie Kloss.
Kushner and Kloss are buying the publication rights to Life from Dotdash Meredith, the print and digital publisher. The deal is being done through Bedford Media, the media start-up that Kloss leads as C.E.O. (The price wasn't disclosed.)
Life was once a central part of American culture, featuring the work of renowned photographers like Robert Capa and writing by top authors. (Ernest Hemingway's "The Old Man and the Sea" first appeared in its pages.)
But its popularity plunged after the 1970s, with the magazine largely being reduced to light reading and celebrity news. In 2008, it became an online archive with occasional newsstand editions.
The backstory: Kushner approached Diller about resurrecting Life about eight months ago, DealBook hears. His pitch was that the magazine could be resurrected in print and online -- as well as in newer iterations like events and collaborations with brands and major studios.
"Life's legacy lies in its ability to blend culture, current events and everyday life -- highlighting the triumphs, challenges and unique perspectives that define us," Kushner said in a statement.
Dotdash Meredith will remain involved: It owns the rights to Life's vast photo and content archive, and will continue to publish special single-topic print editions.
It's the latest high-profile effort to resurrect a legacy publication during a tough time for the media industry. Old-school publishers like Condé Nast and newer ones like Vox and Vice have struggled amid a downturn in advertising.
But Kushner, who will serve as Life's publisher, and Kloss are betting that they have a more focused approach that will succeed. "We see Life as an uplifting and unifying voice in a chaotic media landscape," Kloss said.
The two have already purchased other famous titles. When Bedford was formed last year, it bought the style magazine i-D from Vice. And in 2020, Kloss organized an investor consortium to buy the high-end fashion magazine W.
What's next: Bedford will begin hiring senior editorial staff for Life, which is tentatively set to resume regular publishing early next year.
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING
Disney ends its legal fight with Ron DeSantis over its Florida special tax district. The entertainment giant and the state's governor agreed to cooperate on new growth plans for the 25,000-acre area that encompasses Walt Disney World. It was a surprising end to a bitter fight that saw DeSantis and his allies take over the district and Disney fight back with quiet efforts to lock in its own development plans.
Amazon invests $ 2.75 billion more into Anthropic. The funding brings the tech giant's total stake in Anthropic, a buzzy artificial intelligence start-up, to $ 4 billion. It's the latest sign of tech giants' eagerness to pour money into promising A.I. technology. Meanwhile, Salesforce reportedly paid more than $ 20 million to license Albert Einstein's image to promote its A.I. efforts.
Deal making roars back in the first quarter. About $ 690.2 billion worth of mergers were announced in the first three months, up 30 percent from the same time last year, according to LSEG. But that growth was driven largely by mega transactions like Capital One's $ 35 billion bid for Discover Financial Services: The number of announced deals was down 31 percent year on year.
How much time will Bankman-Fried serve?
Sam Bankman-Fried is set to be sentenced today, with prosecutors requesting that the FTX founder spend decades in prison and defense lawyers arguing for just a few years.
The 32-year-old's fate will hinge on how Judge Lewis Kaplan of the Southern District of New York weighs how much damage he caused to investors and customers, and how many of them will get their money back.
Prosecutors want Bankman-Fried to serve up to 50 years. The onetime poster child of the crypto industry was found guilty in November of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy after being charged with stealing billions of dollars to fund a lavish lifestyle and his own investments.
In a court filing this month, prosecutors called the fraud "historic," pointing to the magnitude of losses and the tens of thousands of potential victims, including unsophisticated retail investors.
Bankman-Fried's lawyers are calling for leniency. They have asked for a sentence of no more than six and a half years and accused the government of pursuing a "medieval" punishment of an "exceptionally brilliant" young man with much to offer society.
They have also pointed to claims by FTX's lawyers that customers would eventually be repaid. The net harm to customers, lenders and investors, they said, is "zero."
FTX's current leader blasted those claims. John Ray told Judge Kaplan this month that recovering the money wasn't guaranteed and would take work by his team. It was "categorically, callously, and demonstrably false" to say that no harm was caused, he added.
Victim restitution won't guarantee a lighter sentence. "It's a crime to defraud people," Renato Mariotti, a former federal prosecutor, told DealBook. "And the sheer scale of the fraud here was large." He expects a sentence of 20 to 30 years.
Mark Kornfeld of the law firm Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney agreed that Bankman-Fried's role in victims regaining their money may not matter much. "He's not the one making them whole," he told The Financial Times.
A cheat sheet for tomorrow's inflation report
As the S&P 500 heads into the last trading day of the quarter, the index is closing in on a fifth straight monthly gain. Driving that are hopes that the Fed will start cutting interest rates as early as June.
But new inflation data could still derail that momentum. The Commerce Department is scheduled to release the Personal Consumption Expenditures index, which is closely watched in Washington, tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.
Economists expect another hot number. The question is, how hot? Especially strong data could prod the Fed to delay lowering borrowing costs, and affect the number of cuts this year.
Here's what to watch for:
Headline P.C.E. for February is expected to show a 2.5 percent year-on-year gain, a slight increase from the January report.
Core P.C.E., which excludes volatile food and fuel prices, is forecast to come in at 2.8 percent on an annualized basis, roughly in line with the previous month.
Analysts will watch for signs that services inflation -- spending on things like airfare, health care and rent -- has begun to ease. Consumer spending in these areas has remained high in recent months.
Fed hawks are weighing in ahead of the report. Christopher Waller, a Fed governor, said in a speech yesterday that the central bank should hold off on cutting rates until he sees "at least a couple months of better inflation data." (The title of his talk: "There's Still No Rush.")
Investors sold off Treasury notes after Waller's comments. But the futures market this morning is still penciling in three rate cuts this year, more or less in line with the Fed's most recent forecast.
"If the leadership doesn't execute a beautiful deleveraging, China will have a Japanese-style lost decade with Marxist characteristics."
-- Ray Dalio , the founder of Bridgewater Associates. In a lengthy post on LinkedIn, the hedge fund billionaire agreed with President Xi Jinping of China about an imminent century of extraordinary change and offered suggestions to help Beijing deal with its economic problems.
The A.I. lobby wants to talk about China
As policymakers try to figure out how to regulate the fast-growing artificial intelligence industry, Silicon Valley has ramped up its lobbying efforts to shape the debate.
Its latest tactic? Tapping into growing worries about China.
The Biden administration is doubling down on China's tech threat. That's evident by recent moves, such as signaling its support for legislation that could see TikTok banned in the U.S.
China is producing more top researchers, though the U.S. has a big lead on investments and breakthroughs.
Silicon Valley is trying to capitalize on the mood. On May 1, tech leaders -- including Palantir's Alex Karp, Sequoia Capital's Roelof Botha and Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures -- are expected to attend a conference in Washington with dozens of lawmakers, like Speaker Mike Johnson, Republican of Louisiana.
Jacob Helberg, an adviser to Palantir and a member of a congressional commission on China's threats to national security, is organizing the event.
For tech companies, Washington's focus on China could be good for business. "The other side of slowing down China is minimal friction and regulation for U.S. companies," Amba Kak, a former senior adviser on A.I. to the F.T.C., told The Times.
The event comes as the industry is ramping up its lobbying efforts. More than 350 organizations reported lobbying the federal government on A.I. issues during the first nine months of 2023, spending a total of $ 569 million on the effort, according to OpenSecrets.
But a Facebook co-founder is reportedly making a different case. Dustin Moskovitz, a major Democratic donor, met with President Biden last month to share his own arguments about A.I. safety, according to Puck.
Moskovitz and others have warned that "mitigating the risk of extinction from A.I. should be a global priority." His nonprofit group, Open Philanthropy, has advocated regulations like software export controls and licensing requirements for certain A.I. models.
THE SPEED READ
Deals
The British hedge fund mogul Chris Hohn led Institutional Investor's latest Rich List with a $ 2.9 billion haul last year, followed by Millennium's Izzy Englander and Citadel's Ken Griffin. (II)
Liberty Media, the owner of Formula One, is reportedly in talks to buy the parent company of MotoGP, the motorcycle racing competition, for more than 4 billion euros (about $ 4.3 billion). (FT)
Josh Harris and David Blitzer, whose company owns the Philadelphia 76ers, have formed Unrivaled Sports to invest in youth-focused sports, with backing from the Chernin Group. (Unrivaled Sports)
Policy
A member of Qatar's royal family invested roughly $ 50 million in Newsmax during the Trump administration. Staff at the conservative news publication were reportedly told to soften coverage of the country before and after the deal. (WaPo)
Joe Lieberman, the longtime Democratic senator and vice-presidential nominee who most recently helped lead the independent political group No Labels, died yesterday. He was 82. (NYT)
Best of the rest
The credit rating agency S&P downgraded Paramount Global's debt to junk, citing declines in its business. (Bloomberg)
A new study by Boston Consulting Group and the nonprofit group Moms First found that child care benefits for employees essentially pay for themselves. (Axios)
"Has the Luxury E-Commerce Bubble Burst?" (NYT)
Daniel Kahneman, whose pioneering work on behavioral economics earned him a Nobel, died yesterday. He was 90. (NYT)
We'd like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Photograph Josh Kushner; Karlie Kloss This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Digital archives; Attorneys; Magazines; Startups; Public prosecutors; Investors; Fraud

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Attorneys Startups

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; China

People: Diller, Barry; Kloss, Karlie

Company / organization: Name: Dotdash Meredith; NAICS: 516110, 516120, 533110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/28/business/dealbook/life-magazine-kushner-kloss-diller.html

Title: Magazine Comes Back To 'Life' After Deal:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 29, 2024

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3013910314

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/magazine-comes-back-life-after-deal/docview/3013910314/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Israelis Deploy High-Tech Tool To Surveil Gaza: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Frenkel, Sheera

Publication info: Frenkel, Sheera. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israelis-deploy-high-tech-tool-surveil-gaza/docview/3002288478/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The experimental effort, which has not been disclosed, is being used to conduct mass surveillance of Palestinians in Gaza, according to military officials and others.
Within minutes of walking through an Israeli military checkpoint along Gaza's central highway on Nov. 19, the Palestinian poet Mosab Abu Toha was asked to step out of the crowd. He put down his 3-year-old son, whom he was carrying, and sat in front of a military jeep.
Half an hour later, Mr. Abu Toha heard his name called. Then he was blindfolded and led away for interrogation.
"I had no idea what was happening or how they could suddenly know my full legal name," said the 31-year-old, who added that he had no ties to the militant group Hamas and had been trying to leave Gaza for Egypt.
It turned out Mr. Abu Toha had walked into the range of cameras embedded with facial recognition technology, according to three Israeli intelligence officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity. After his face was scanned and he was identified, an artificial intelligence program found that the poet was on an Israeli list of wanted persons, they said.
Mr. Abu Toha is one of hundreds of Palestinians who have been picked out by a previously undisclosed Israeli facial recognition program that was started in Gaza late last year. The expansive and experimental effort is being used to conduct mass surveillance there, collecting and cataloging the faces of Palestinians without their knowledge or consent, according to Israeli intelligence officers, military officials and soldiers.
The technology was initially used in Gaza to search for Israelis who were taken hostage by Hamas during the Oct. 7 cross-border raids, the intelligence officials said. After Israel embarked on a ground offensive in Gaza, it increasingly turned to the program to root out anyone with ties to Hamas or other militant groups. At times, the technology wrongly flagged civilians as wanted Hamas militants, one officer said.
The facial recognition program, which is run by Israel's military intelligence unit, including the cyber-intelligence division Unit 8200, relies on technology from Corsight, a private Israeli company, four intelligence officers said. It also uses Google Photos, they said. Combined, the technologies enable Israel to pick faces out of crowds and grainy drone footage.
Three of the people with knowledge of the program said they were speaking out because of concerns that it was a misuse of time and resources by Israel.
An Israeli army spokesman declined to comment on activity in Gaza, but said the military "carries out necessary security and intelligence operations, while making significant efforts to minimize harm to the uninvolved population." He added, "Naturally, we cannot refer to operational and intelligence capabilities in this context."
Facial recognition technology has spread across the globe in recent years, fueled by increasingly sophisticated A.I. systems. While some countries use the technology to make air travel easier, China and Russia have deployed the technology against minority groups and to suppress dissent. Israel's use of facial recognition in Gaza stands out as an application of the technology in a war.
Matt Mahmoudi, a researcher with Amnesty International, said Israel's use of facial recognition was a concern because it could lead to "a complete dehumanization of Palestinians" where they were not seen as individuals. He added that Israeli soldiers were unlikely to question the technology when it identified a person as being part of a militant group, even though the technology makes mistakes.
Israel previously used facial recognition in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, according to an Amnesty report last year, but the effort in Gaza goes further.
In the West Bank and East Jerusalem, Israelis have a homegrown facial recognition system called Blue Wolf, according to the Amnesty report. At checkpoints in West Bank cities such as Hebron, Palestinians are scanned by high-resolution cameras before being permitted to pass. Soldiers also use smartphone apps to scan the faces of Palestinians and add them to a database, the report said.
In Gaza, which Israel withdrew from in 2005, no facial recognition technology was present. Surveillance of Hamas in Gaza was instead conducted by tapping phone lines, interrogating Palestinian prisoners, harvesting drone footage, getting access to private social media accounts and hacking into telecommunications systems, Israeli intelligence officers said.
After Oct. 7, Israeli intelligence officers in Unit 8200 turned to that surveillance for information on the Hamas gunmen who breached Israel's borders. The unit also combed through footage of the attacks from security cameras, as well as videos uploaded by Hamas on social media, one officer said. He said the unit had been told to create a "hit list" of Hamas members who participated in the attack.
Corsight was then brought in to create a facial recognition program in Gaza, three Israeli intelligence officers said.
The company, with headquarters in Tel Aviv, says on its website that its technology requires less than 50 percent of a face to be visible for accurate recognition. Robert Watts, Corsight's president, posted this month on LinkedIn that the facial recognition technology could work with "extreme angles, (even from drones,) darkness, poor quality."
Corsight declined to comment.
Unit 8200 personnel soon found that Corsight's technology struggled if footage was grainy and faces were obscured, one officer said. When the military tried identifying the bodies of Israelis killed on Oct. 7, the technology could not always work for people whose faces had been injured. There were also false positives, or cases when a person was mistakenly identified as being connected to Hamas, the officer said.
To supplement Corsight's technology, Israeli officers used Google Photos, the free photo sharing and storage service from Google, three intelligence officers said. By uploading a database of known persons to Google Photos, Israeli officers could use the service's photo search function to identify people.
Google's ability to match faces and identify people even with only a small portion of their face visible was superior to other technology, one officer said. The military continued to use Corsight because it was customizable, the officers said.
A Google spokesman said Google Photos was a free consumer product that "does not provide identities for unknown people in photographs."
The facial recognition program in Gaza grew as Israel expanded its military offensive there. Israeli soldiers entering Gaza were given cameras equipped with the technology. Soldiers also set up checkpoints along major roads that Palestinians were using to flee areas of heavy fighting, with cameras that scanned faces.
The program's goals were to search for Israeli hostages, as well as Hamas fighters who could be detained for questioning, the Israeli intelligence officers said.
The guidelines of whom to stop were intentionally broad, one said. Palestinian prisoners were asked to name people from their communities who they believed were part of Hamas. Israel would then search for those people, hoping they would yield more intelligence.
Mr. Abu Toha, the Palestinian poet, was named as a Hamas operative by someone in the northern Gaza town of Beit Lahia, where he lived with his family, the Israeli intelligence officers said. The officers said there was no specific intelligence attached to his file explaining a connection to Hamas.
In an interview, Mr. Abu Toha, who wrote "Things You May Find Hidden in My Ear: Poems From Gaza," said he has no connection to Hamas.
When he and his family were stopped at the military checkpoint on Nov. 19 as they tried leaving for Egypt, he said he had not shown any identification when he was asked to step out of the crowd.
After he was handcuffed and taken to sit under a tent with several dozen men, he heard someone say the Israeli army had used a "new technology" on the group. Within 30 minutes, Israeli soldiers called him by his full legal name.
Mr. Abu Toha said he was beaten and interrogated in an Israeli detention center for two days before being returned to Gaza with no explanation. He wrote about his experience in The New Yorker, where he is a contributor. He credited his release to a campaign led by journalists at The New Yorker and other publications.
Upon his release, Israeli soldiers told him his interrogation had been a "mistake," he said.
In a statement at the time, the Israeli military said Mr. Abu Toha was taken for questioning because of "intelligence indicating a number of interactions between several civilians and terror organizations inside the Gaza Strip."
Mr. Abu Toha, who is now in Cairo with his family, said he was not aware of any facial recognition program in Gaza.
"I did not know Israel was capturing or recording my face," he said. But Israel has "been watching us for years from the sky with their drones. They have been watching us gardening and going to schools and kissing our wives. I feel like I have been watched for so long."
Kashmir Hill contributed reporting.
Kashmir Hill contributed reporting.
Photograph Displaced Palestinians arriving at a refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip this month. At left, a surveillance camera at a checkpoint in the West Bank city of Hebron in 2021. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; HAZEM BADER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); Mosab Abu Toha, a Palestinian poet, and his family. He was interrogated at an Israeli military checkpoint after walking into the range of cameras embedded with facial recognition technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOSAB ABU TOHA) (A11) This article appeared in print on page A1, A11.

Subject: Cameras; Telecommunications systems; Social networks; Palestinian people; Intelligence gathering; Drones; Militancy; Surveillance; Facial recognition technology; Military personnel; Questioning; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: West Bank; Israel; Egypt; Jerusalem Israel; Gaza Strip

Company / organization: Name: New Yorker Magazine Inc; NAICS: 513120; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/27/technology/israel-facial-recognition-gaza.html

Title: Israelis Deploy High-Tech Tool To Surveil Gaza:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 28, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3002288478

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israelis-deploy-high-tech-tool-surveil-gaza/docview/3002288478/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Israel Deploys Expansive Facial Recognition Program in Gaza

Author: Frenkel, Sheera

Publication info: Frenkel, Sheera. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israel-deploys-expansive-facial-recognition/docview/3003305844/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TEL AVIV, Israel — Within minutes of walking through an Israeli military checkpoint along the Gaza Strip’s central highway Nov. 19, Palestinian poet Mosab Abu Toha was asked to step out of the crowd. He put down his 3-year-old son, whom he was carrying, and sat in front of a military jeep.
Half an hour later, Abu Toha heard his name called. Then he was blindfolded and led away for interrogation.
“I had no idea what was happening or how they could suddenly know my full legal name,” said the 31-year-old, who added that he had no ties to the militant group Hamas and had been trying to leave Gaza for Egypt.
It turned out Abu Toha had walked into the range of cameras embedded with facial recognition technology, according to three Israeli intelligence officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity. After his face was scanned and he was identified, an artificial intelligence program found that the poet was on an Israeli list of wanted persons, they said.
Abu Toha is one of hundreds of Palestinians who have been picked out by a previously undisclosed Israeli facial recognition program that was started in Gaza late last year. The expansive and experimental effort is being used to conduct mass surveillance there, collecting and cataloging the faces of Palestinians without their knowledge or consent, according to Israeli intelligence officers, military officials and soldiers.
The technology was initially used in Gaza to search for Israelis who were taken hostage by Hamas during the Oct. 7 cross-border raids, the intelligence officials said. After Israel embarked on a ground offensive in Gaza, it increasingly turned to the program to root out anyone with ties to Hamas or other militant groups. At times, the technology wrongly flagged civilians as wanted Hamas militants, one officer said.
The facial recognition program, which is run by Israel’s military intelligence unit, including the cyberintelligence division Unit 8200, relies on technology from Corsight, a private Israeli company, four intelligence officers said. It also uses Google Photos, they said. Combined, the technologies enable Israel to pick faces out of crowds and grainy drone footage.
Three of the people with knowledge of the program said they were speaking out because of concerns that it was a misuse of time and resources by Israel.
An Israeli army spokesperson declined to comment on activity in Gaza but said the military “carries out necessary security and intelligence operations, while making significant efforts to minimize harm to the uninvolved population.” He added, “Naturally, we cannot refer to operational and intelligence capabilities in this context.”
Facial recognition technology has spread across the globe in recent years, fueled by increasingly sophisticated AI systems. While some countries use the technology to make air travel easier, China and Russia have deployed the technology against minority groups and to suppress dissent. Israel’s use of facial recognition in Gaza stands out as an application of the technology in a war.
Matt Mahmoudi, a researcher with Amnesty International, said Israel’s use of facial recognition was a concern because it could lead to “a complete dehumanization of Palestinians” where they were not seen as individuals. He added that Israeli soldiers were unlikely to question the technology when it identified a person as being part of a militant group, even though the technology makes mistakes.
Israel previously used facial recognition in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, according to an Amnesty report last year, but the effort in Gaza goes further.
In the West Bank and east Jerusalem, Israelis have a homegrown facial recognition system called Blue Wolf, according to the Amnesty report. At checkpoints in West Bank cities such as Hebron, Palestinians are scanned by high-resolution cameras before being permitted to pass. Soldiers also use smartphone apps to scan the faces of Palestinians and add them to a database, the report said.
In Gaza, which Israel withdrew from in 2005, no facial recognition technology was present. Surveillance of Hamas in Gaza was instead conducted by tapping phone lines, interrogating Palestinian prisoners, harvesting drone footage, getting access to private social media accounts and hacking into telecommunications systems, Israeli intelligence officers said.
After Oct. 7, Israeli intelligence officers in Unit 8200 turned to that surveillance for information on the Hamas militants who breached Israel’s borders. The unit also combed through footage of the attacks from security cameras, as well as videos uploaded by Hamas on social media, one officer said. He said the unit had been told to create a “hit list” of Hamas members who participated in the attack.
Corsight was then brought in to create a facial recognition program in Gaza, three Israeli intelligence officers said.
The company, with headquarters in Tel Aviv, says on its website that its technology requires less than 50% of a face to be visible for accurate recognition. Robert Watts, Corsight’s president, posted this month on LinkedIn that the facial recognition technology could work with “extreme angles, (even from drones,) darkness, poor quality.”
Corsight declined to comment.
Unit 8200 personnel soon found that Corsight’s technology struggled if footage was grainy and faces were obscured, one officer said. When the military tried identifying the bodies of Israelis killed Oct. 7, the technology could not always work for people whose faces had been injured. There were also false positives or cases when a person was mistakenly identified as being connected to Hamas, the officer said.
To supplement Corsight’s technology, Israeli officers used Google Photos, the free photo sharing and storage service from Google, three intelligence officers said. By uploading a database of known persons to Google Photos, Israeli officers could use the service’s photo search function to identify people.
Google’s ability to match faces and identify people even with only a small portion of their face visible was superior to other technology, one officer said. The military continued to use Corsight because it was customizable, the officers said.
A Google spokesperson said Google Photos was a free consumer product that “does not provide identities for unknown people in photographs.”
The facial recognition program in Gaza grew as Israel expanded its military offensive there. Israeli soldiers entering Gaza were given cameras equipped with the technology. Soldiers also set up checkpoints along major roads that Palestinians were using to flee areas of heavy fighting, with cameras that scanned faces.
The program’s goals were to search for Israeli hostages, as well as Hamas fighters who could be detained for questioning, the Israeli intelligence officers said.
The guidelines of whom to stop were intentionally broad, one said. Palestinian prisoners were asked to name people from their communities who they believed were part of Hamas. Israel would then search for those people, hoping they would yield more intelligence.
Abu Toha, the Palestinian poet, was named as a Hamas operative by someone in the northern Gaza town of Beit Lahia, where he lived with his family, the Israeli intelligence officers said. The officers said there was no specific intelligence attached to his file explaining a connection to Hamas.
In an interview, Abu Toha, who wrote “Things You May Find Hidden in My Ear: Poems From Gaza,” said he has no connection to Hamas.
When he and his family were stopped at the military checkpoint Nov. 19 as they tried leaving for Egypt, he said he had not shown any identification when he was asked to step out of the crowd.
After he was handcuffed and taken to sit under a tent with several dozen men, he heard someone say the Israeli army had used a “new technology” on the group. Within 30 minutes, Israeli soldiers called him by his full legal name.
Abu Toha said he was beaten and interrogated in an Israeli detention center for two days before being returned to Gaza with no explanation. He wrote about his experience in The New Yorker, where he is a contributor. He credited his release to a campaign led by journalists at The New Yorker and other publications.
Upon his release, Israeli soldiers told him his interrogation had been a “mistake,” he said.
In a statement at the time, the Israeli military said Abu Toha was taken for questioning because of “intelligence indicating a number of interactions between several civilians and terror organizations inside the Gaza Strip.”
Abu Toha, who is now in Cairo with his family, said he was not aware of any facial recognition program in Gaza.
“I did not know Israel was capturing or recording my face,” he said. But Israel has “been watching us for years from the sky with their drones. They have been watching us gardening and going to schools and kissing our wives. I feel like I have been watched for so long.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Cameras; Photographs; Artificial intelligence; Telecommunications systems; Social networks; Palestinian people; Intelligence gathering; Drones; Facial recognition technology; Surveillance; Militancy; Questioning; Military personnel; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Social networks

Location: West Bank; New York; United States--US; Israel; Egypt; Jerusalem Israel; Gaza Strip

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: New Yorker Magazine Inc; NAICS: 513120; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Hamas; Mobile Applications; Facial Recognition Software; Tel Aviv (Israel); International Relations; Amnesties, Commutations And Pardons; Drones (Pilotless Planes); Civilian Casualties; Computer Vision; Jerusalem (Israel); Russia; Terrorism; West Bank; Privacy; Linkedin Corporation; Frenkel, Sheera; Palestinians; Israel; Hebron (West Bank); Photography; Espion age And Intelligence Services; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); New Yorker; Google Inc; Abu Toha, Mosab; Social Media; Defense And Military Forces; Poetry And Poets; Face; World; Gaza Strip; Cameras; Political Prisoners; Kidnapping And Hostages; Cairo (Egypt); Egypt; Names, Personal; China

Title: Israel Deploys Expansive Facial Recognition Program in Gaza

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 27, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-27T23:20:30Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3003305844

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israel-deploys-expansive-facial-recognition/docview/3003305844/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Flitter, Emily; Robbins, Rebecca

Publication info: Flitter, Emily; Robbins, Rebecca. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2956989086/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: FINANCE
JPMorgan Faces Fines
Of $ 348 Million for Lapses
JPMorgan Chase plays a part in trillions of dollars of financial market trading around the world every day, but federal regulators said the bank's systems for sharing details of that activity with them were not working properly for about a decade. Those lapses are costing it more than $ 348 million in fines -- and more could follow.
On Thursday, the bank's main federal regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, fined the JPMorgan $ 250 million over the omissions. The action followed a $ 98.2 million penalty from the Federal Reserve on March 8. The bank recently told investors in a public filling that a third regulator is preparing a separate action that is likely to come with its own monetary penalty.
The breaches at the bank, which occurred from around 2014 until 2023, affected regulators seeking data on financial market activity to help catch instances of misbehavior, like insider trading and market manipulation. JPMorgan was not retaining and sharing information about trades made by customers and businesses in connection with around 30 different trading platforms and venues, the regulators said.
Brian Marchiony, a JPMorgan spokesman, said the bank found the problems on its own and notified regulators. JPMorgan did not expect any services to customers to be disrupted as it works to fix the problems, he said.
"Significant remedial actions have been taken and others are underway," Mr. Marchiony said. "We have not found any employee misconduct or harm to clients or the market." EMILY FLITTER
APPAREL
Under Armour's Founder To Return to C.E.O. Role
Under Armour, the sports apparel company, said on Wednesday that its founder, Kevin Plank, would return as chief executive, in a leadership shake-up that will seek to revitalize the struggling brand.
Mr. Plank, near right, who founded Under Armour in 1996, had remained the company's executive chair and controlling shareholder after exiting as chief executive at the end of 2019. He will take over on April 1 from Stephanie Linnartz, who led the company for just over a year. Ms. Linnartz took over from Patrik Frisk, who served in that role for two years.
Under Armour, once hyped as the next Nike, has faltered in recent years amid a series of missteps and shifting consumer tastes in a highly competitive market. With sales slumping, the company's stock has fallen by about 85 percent since reaching a record high in 2015. It rose slightly in after-hours trading after the news that Mr. Plank would be returning to lead the company after four years away from the job.
In a note to employees posted on LinkedIn announcing his return, Mr. Plank said that the company was assessing its direction in an effort to "help us make the right choices to put us back on a path to actively build and drive toward our full brand potential."
Ms. Linnartz, who made a series of personnel changes in the company's leadership team in recent months, has spoken lately about jumping on the booming interest in athleisure with new marketing and products.
REBECCA ROBBINS
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIO CORTEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Clothing industry; Securities markets

Business indexing term: Subject: Clothing industry Securities markets

Company / organization: Name: Under Armour Inc; NAICS: 315250

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/14/business/15bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financi al Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 15, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2956989086

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2956989086/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Venture Capital Is Seeing A Generational Adjustment: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/venture-capital-is-seeing-generational-adjustment/docview/2956989074/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Reid Hoffman, a founder of LinkedIn and a longtime venture capitalist, is no longer the public face of the venture firm Greylock. Michael Moritz, a force at Sequoia Capital for 38 years, officially separated from the investment firm last summer. And Jeff Jordan, a top investor at Andreessen Horowitz for 12 years, left in May.
They are among the most recognizable of a generation of Silicon Valley investors who are getting out of venture capital at the end of a lucrative 15-year upswing for the industry.
Many more are leaving. Investors at Tiger Global, Paradigm, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Emergence Capital and Spark Capital have all announced plans to step back. Foundry Group, a venture firm in Boulder, Colo., that has backed 200 companies since 2006, said in January that it would not raise another fund.
Taken together, the steady thrum of departures has created a sense that venture capital -- a $ 1.1 trillion corner of finance that invests in young, private companies, sometimes spawning enterprises like Apple, Google and Amazon -- is in a moment of transition.
"We're at a tipping point," said Alan Wink, a managing director of capital markets at EisnerAmper, which provides advisory services to venture capital firms. While there have been waves of retirements in the past, he said, this one is more pronounced.
The turnover creates an opening for new investors to step up, potentially shifting who the power players are in Silicon Valley. That may also change the calculus for young companies as they decide which venture firms to seek money from.
Yet the latest generation of investors faces a start-up investment landscape that has become more challenging. Few venture capital funds are reaping the kinds of enormous windfalls -- which come when start-ups go public or are bought -- that can secure an investor's reputation. That also makes it harder for venture firms to raise money, with fund-raising by the industry falling 61 percent last year and some large firms cutting their targets.
The last generation of investors, including Mr. Moritz, 69; Mr. Hoffman, 56; John Doerr of Kleiner Perkins, 72; Jim Breyer of Accel, 62; and Bill Gurley of Benchmark, 57, rose to prominence by making bets on consumer internet start-ups like Google, Facebook, Uber and Airbnb, which turned into behemoths.
Today's up-and-coming venture capitalists are waiting for their version of those winners. Some of the most highly valued start-ups -- such as OpenAI, the artificial intelligence company valued at $ 86 billion -- are in no hurry to go public or sell. And the frenzy around generative A.I. could take years to translate into big wins.
"We're in this period of reset, based on where the technology is and where it's going," said David York, an investor at Top Tier Capital, which invests in other venture capital firms. "These stars will emerge."
Industry stalwarts like Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures, Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz and Peter Thiel of Founders Fund continue to write checks and wield influence. (All three firms have backed OpenAI.)
But many others are stepping down as a 15-year winning streak that reaped billions in profit for the industry has recently curdled into a downturn. Venture capital firms typically invest over 10-year fund cycles, and some aren't eager to sign up for another decade.
"There's a bull market element to it," said Mike Volpi, 57, an investor at Index Ventures who recently said he would step down from the firm's next fund. Mr. Volpi's decision was earlier reported by the newsletter Newcomer.
Mr. Wink of EisnerAmper said that in some cases, the investors that back venture capital funds were eager for fresh blood. The message, he said: Get out at the top.
"Don't be like a lot of professional athletes that sign that last contract and your performance on the field was nowhere near where it was in your glory days," he added.
For years, venture capital could only grow, propelled by low interest rates that lured investors everywhere to take more risk. Cheap cash, as well as the proliferation of smartphones and plentiful cloud storage, allowed many tech start-ups to flourish, producing bumper returns for investors who bet on those companies over the last 15 years.
Investments in U.S. start-ups soared eightfold to $ 344 billion between 2012 and 2022, according to PitchBook, which tracks start-ups. Venture capital firms grew from tiny partnerships into enormous asset managers.
The largest venture firms, including Sequoia Capital and Andreessen Horowitz, now manage tens of billions of dollars of investments. They have expanded into more specialized funds focusing on assets like cryptocurrencies, opened offices in Europe and Asia and dabbled in new areas such as wealth management and public stocks.
Andreessen Horowitz, Sequoia Capital, Bessemer Venture Partners, General Catalyst and others also became registered investment advisers, which meant they could invest in more than just private companies. Venture capital was briefly the hot job for ambitious young people in finance.
The expansions have contributed to decisions by some investors to step back. Mr. Volpi, who joined Index Ventures in 2009 after 14 years at Cisco, said he had gotten into venture capital for a change of pace from the corporate world. He backed start-ups including the work messaging company Slack and the A.I. start-up Cohere.
But over the years, Index -- and the overall venture industry -- became bigger and more professionalized.
"Maybe it's for someone else to go fight that battle," Mr. Volpi said.
Many venture funds have also grown so large that owning a stake in a "unicorn," or a start-up valued at $ 1 billion or more, is no longer enough to reap the same profits as before.
"If you want to return three times your fund, then a unicorn isn't sufficient," said Renata Quintini, an investor at Renegade Partners, a venture capital firm. "You need a decacorn," she added, referring to a start-up worth $ 10 billion or more.
The largest firms have migrated from providing their investors with profits from the traditional definition of venture capital -- very young, high risk companies with potential for outsize growth -- to a more general idea of "tech exposure," Ms. Quintini said.
Manu Kumar, a founder of the venture firm K9 Ventures, has felt the shift. Since 2009, he has written checks of $ 500,000 or less to invest in very young companies. Some of those investments, including Lyft and Twilio, went public, while others sold to bigger tech companies like LinkedIn, Meta, Google and Twitter.
But starting last year, he said, the venture capital investors who would have provided the next round of funding to the start-ups he backed began demanding to see more progress before investing. (Start-ups typically raise a series of increasingly large financings until they go public or sell.) And potential buyers were laying off employees and cutting costs, not acquiring start-ups.
"Companies today only have one option," Mr. Kumar said. "They have to build a real business."
In October, Mr. Kumar told investors that the math on his investment strategy no longer worked and that he would not raise a new venture fund. He plans to watch the market and revisit the option in a year.
"I want to have conviction in what my strategy is going to be," he said. "I don't have that conviction at the moment."
Photograph Clockwise, from top left, Jeff Jordan, Reid Hoffman, Bill Gurley and Michael Moritz. They are among top investors who have gotten out of the industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES, CLARA MOKRI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, PETER EARL MCCOLLOUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Industry stalwarts like Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures continue to write checks. But many others are stepping down after an industry downturn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANASTASIIA SAPON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Venture capital companies; Investment policy; Startups; Investors; Generations

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital companies Investment policy Startups

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Index Ventures; NAICS: 523910; Name: Khosla Ventures; NAICS: 523910; Name: Greylock Capital; NAICS: 525910; Name: Sequoia Capital Operations LLC; NAICS: 523910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/13/technology/venture-capital-silicon-valley-investors.html

Title: Venture Capital Is Seeing A Generational Adjustment:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 15, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2956989074

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/venture-capital-is-seeing-generational-adjustment/docview/2956989074/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Silicon Valley, Venture Capital Meets a Generational Shift

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-venture-capital-meets-generational/docview/2956919087/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — Reid Hoffman, a founder of LinkedIn and a longtime venture capitalist, is no longer the public face of the venture firm Greylock. Michael Moritz, a force at Sequoia Capital for 38 years, officially separated from the investment firm last summer. And Jeff Jordan, a top investor at Andreessen Horowitz for 12 years, left in May.
They are among the most recognizable of a generation of Silicon Valley investors who are getting out of venture capital at the end of a lucrative 15-year upswing for the industry.
Many more are leaving. Investors at Tiger Global, Paradigm, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Emergence Capital and Spark Capital have all announced plans to step back. Foundry Group, a venture firm in Boulder, Colorado, that has backed 200 companies since 2006, said in January that it would not raise another fund.
Taken together, the steady thrum of departures has created a sense that venture capital — a $1.1 trillion corner of finance that invests in young, private companies, sometimes spawning enterprises such as Apple, Google and Amazon — is in a moment of transition.
“We’re at a tipping point,” said Alan Wink, a managing director of capital markets at EisnerAmper, which provides advisory services to venture capital firms. While there have been waves of retirements in the past, he said this one was more pronounced.
The turnover creates an opening for new investors to step up, potentially shifting who the power players are in Silicon Valley. That may also change the calculus for young companies as they decide which venture firms to seek money from.
Yet the latest generation of investors faces a startup investment landscape that has become more challenging. Few venture capital funds are reaping the kinds of enormous windfalls — which come from startups going public or being bought — that can secure an investor’s reputation. That also makes it harder for venture firms to raise money, with fundraising by the industry falling 61% last year and some large firms cutting their targets.
The last generation of investors, including Moritz, 69; Hoffman, 56; John Doerr of Kleiner Perkins, 72; Jim Breyer of Accel, 62; and Bill Gurley of Benchmark, 57, rose to prominence by making bets on consumer internet startups such as Google, Facebook, Uber and Airbnb, which turned into behemoths.
Today’s up-and-coming venture capitalists are waiting for their version of those winners. Some of the most highly valued startups — such as OpenAI, the artificial intelligence company valued at $86 billion — are in no hurry to go public or sell. And the frenzy around generative AI could take years to translate into big wins.
“We’re in this period of reset, based on where the technology is and where it’s going,” said David York, an investor at Top Tier Capital, which invests in other venture capital firms. “These stars will emerge.”
Industry stalwarts such as Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures, Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz and Peter Thiel of Founders Fund continue to write checks and wield influence. (All three firms have backed OpenAI.)
But many others are stepping down as a 15-year winning streak that reaped billions in profit for the industry has recently curdled into a downturn. Venture capital firms typically invest over 10-year fund cycles, and some aren’t eager to sign up for another decade.
“There’s a bull market element to it,” said Mike Volpi, 57, an investor at Index Ventures who recently said he would step down from the firm’s next fund. Volpi’s decision was earlier reported by the newsletter Newcomer.
Wink of EisnerAmper said that in some cases, the investors that back venture capital funds are eager for fresh blood. The message, he said: Get out at the top.
“Don’t be like a lot of professional athletes that sign that last contract and your performance on the field was nowhere near where it was in your glory days,” he added.
For years, venture capital could only grow, propelled by low interest rates that lured investors everywhere to take more risk. Cheap cash, as well as the proliferation of smartphones and plentiful cloud storage, allowed many tech startups to flourish, producing bumper returns for investors who bet on those companies over the past 15 years.
Investments in U.S. startups soared eightfold to $344 billion between 2012 and 2022, according to PitchBook, which tracks startups. Venture capital firms grew from tiny partnerships into enormous asset managers.
The largest venture firms, including Sequoia Capital and Andreessen Horowitz, now manage tens of billions of dollars of investments. They have expanded into more specialized funds focusing on assets such as cryptocurrencies, opened offices in Europe and Asia and dabbled in new areas such as wealth management and public stocks.
Andreessen Horowitz, Sequoia Capital, Bessemer Venture Partners, General Catalyst and others also became registered investment advisers, which meant they could invest in more than just private companies. Venture capital was briefly the hot job for ambitious young people in finance.
The expansions have contributed to decisions by some investors to step back. Volpi, who joined Index Ventures in 2009 after 14 years at Cisco, said he got into venture capital for a change of pace from the corporate world. He backed startups including the work messaging company Slack and the AI startup Cohere.
But over the years, Index — and the overall venture industry — became bigger and more professionalized.
“Maybe it’s for someone else to go fight that battle,” Volpi said.
Many venture funds have also grown so large that owning a stake in a “unicorn,” or a startup valued at $1 billion or more, is no longer enough to reap the same profits as before.
“If you want to return three times your fund, then a unicorn isn’t sufficient,” said Renata Quintini, an investor at Renegade Partners, a venture capital firm. “You need a decacorn,” she added, referring to a startup worth $10 billion or more.
The largest firms have migrated from providing their investors with profits from the traditional definition of venture capital — very young, high risk companies with potential for outsize growth — to a more general idea of “tech exposure,” Quintini said.
Manu Kumar, a founder of the venture firm K9 Ventures, has felt the shift. Since 2009, he has written checks of $500,000 or less to invest in very young companies. Some of those investments, including Lyft and Twilio, went public, while others sold to bigger tech companies such as LinkedIn, Meta, Google and Twitter.
But starting last year, he said, the venture capital investors who would have provided the next round of funding to the startups he backed began demanding to see more progress before investing. (Startups typically raise a series of increasingly large financings until they go public or sell.) And potential buyers were laying off employees and cutting costs, not acquiring startups.
“Companies today only have one option,” Kumar said. “They have to build a real business.”
In October, Kumar told investors that the math on his investment strategy no longer worked and that he would not raise a new venture fund. He plans to watch the market and revisit the option in a year.
“I want to have conviction in what my strategy is going to be,” he said. “I don’t have that conviction at the moment.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Venture capital companies; Investment policy; Startups; Investors

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital companies Investment policy Startups

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Index Ventures; NAICS: 523910

Identifier / keyword: Breyer, James W; Founders Fund; Linkedin Corporation; Airbnb; Hoffman, Reid Garrett; News And News Media; Jordan, Jeffrey (1959 ); Accel Partners; Khosla Ventures; Enterprise Computing; Cisco Systems Inc; Boulder (Colo); Slack Technologies Inc; Benchmark Capital; Venture Capital; United States; Index Ventures Llp; Andreessen Horowitz; Gurley, Bill; Thiel, Peter A; Apple Inc; Europe; Google Inc; Social Media; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Uber Technologies Inc; Greylock Partners; Trees And Shrubs; Layoffs And Job Reductions; AmazonCom Inc; Openai Labs; Computers And The Internet; Entrepreneurship; Car Services And Livery Cabs; Accidents And Safety; Moritz, Michael Jonathan; Facebook Inc; Workplace Environment; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); Bessemer Venture Partners; Stocks And Bonds; Newspapers; Artificial Intelligence; Labor And Jobs; Andreessen, Marc L; Colorado; Cohere Inc; Instant Messaging; Doerr, John; Meta Platforms Inc; Sequoia Capital; Lightspeed Venture Partners; Business; Financial Planners; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Start Ups; New York Times; Lyft Inc; Age, Chronological

Title: In Silicon Valley, Venture Capital Meets a Generational Shift

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 14, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-14T21:49:44Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2956919087

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-venture-capital-meets-generational/docview/2956919087/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Invited to Lunch in the Latest Seats of Power: [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk]

Author: Richardson, Nikita

Publication info: Richardson, Nikita. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/invited-lunch-latest-seats-power/docview/2956055122/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Take a tiny vacation in the middle of your day.
Back in 2016, shortly after I joined the magazine Bon Appétit as an assistant editor, two of the top editors treated me to lunch. They decided on Augustine, the short-lived, four-dollar-sign Keith McNally restaurant on the ground floor of the Beekman hotel in the financial district.
I don't remember much about the meal other than the seafood tower we split, and the midday Negroni I ordered, but I remember thinking to myself, "This is a power lunch." Or maybe a show-of-power lunch. Either way, with that extravagant meal in that extravagant dining room, my bosses wanted to impress me: a 20-something making less than half their salaries in a job that I would be laid off from a year later.
This is not to say I hate power lunches. They're actually the best, like a tiny vacation in the middle of the day. Without power lunches, we wouldn't have tales from the Algonquin Round Table. In 2021 and 2022, it seemed as if the power lunch might not be long for this world; The Times even ran a story with the headline, "The Business Lunch May Be Going Out of Business." The intervening years have demonstrated, however, that many of us are coming back to our offices here on Work Island -- I mean, Manhattan -- and so have restaurants that want to serve us seafood towers and cocktails.
Enter the new generation of power lunch restaurants.
Café Chelsea
The Hotel Chelsea has long been synonymous with its Depression-era Spanish restaurant El Quijote. Unfortunately, the restaurant doesn't serve lunch; but its eight-month-old sister restaurant Café Chelsea does. Where El Quijote is dark, moody and soaked with sangria, Café Chelsea is romantic, bright and soft and a great place to discuss business -- both personal and professional -- over a croque-madame and an endive salad.
218 West 23rd (Seventh Avenue)
Revelie Luncheonette
Midtown may be the center of Work Island, but some people are lucky enough to work below Houston. If you're one of them, 1. I'm so jealous and 2. I encourage you to take a long lunch at Revelie Luncheonette, a diner-esque restaurant from the team behind the '70s-era French bistro Raoul's. It's exactly the kind of place that drives diner obsessives crazy -- so-called blue-plate specials priced $ 26 to $ 36 -- but people who love high-low dining experiences will really enjoy it. Where else can you split moules frites and Hatch chile con queso over a midday Malbec?
179 Prince Street (Sullivan Street)
Mischa
If you've never visited Mischa, the chef Alex Stupak's newest restaurant, then you might not know that it was built with power lunches in mind. After all, it's the anchor restaurant of the Hugh, an upscale food hall on the ground floor of the Citigroup Center building. If you're entertaining out-of-town clients, there's a high chance they'll enjoy Mischa's cheffed up takes on classics like spinach artichoke dip and clam chowder. Or blow their minds and order the excellent $ 29 hot dog -- they'll be telling that story for years.
153 East 53rd Street (Lexington Avenue)
Mari.Ne Handroll
Of all the restaurants on this list, Mari.Ne is the least formal, but that's not a criticism so much as a heads up. The restaurant, from the team behind the Michelin-starred Mari in Hell's Kitchen, serves its hand rolls from a long counter. As the name suggests, their specialty is seafood hand rolls like scallop, salmon, yellowtail and an incredible spicy tuna variety, but there is also a Wagyu hand roll and a nice vegan selection. (Soy bulgogi, anyone?) The chefs place each roll into a little stand as they're ready, so there's plenty of time to chat between bites.
135 West 41st Street (Broadway)
Sailor
Sailor has the distinction of being the only restaurant on this list that isn't in Manhattan, but I felt moved to add it after enjoying a languorous meal there on a Wednesday afternoon. From my booth, I watched as the chef April Bloomfield cooked lunch service -- I got the day's special, a fortifying burger with caramelized onions and French fries -- and I took note as the dining room slowly filled with people who looked as if they had envious LinkedIn connections. A tip: Though lunch and dinner reservations may seem to be in short supply, half of all the seats and the entire bar are always reserved for walk-ins.
228 DeKalb Avenue (Clermont Avenue)
Delmonico's
OK, Delmonico's isn't all that new: If you don't count all the times it has closed, burned down or been sold off, it's been around in some form since 1827. But since September, the latest iteration has been serving all the dishes that made it a staple of 19th- and 20th-century fine dining -- porterhouse steaks, wedge salads, crab cakes, baked alaska -- in a gorgeous, Renaissance Revival building in the financial district. Plus, as The Times's restaurant critic Pete Wells pointed out not that long ago in this newsletter, the dessert menu has been taken over by the celebrated pastry chef Miro Uskokovic, previously of Gramercy Tavern.
56 Beaver Street (William Street)
Read past editions of the newsletter here.
If you're enjoying what you're reading, please consider recommending it to others. They can sign up here.
Have feedback? Send us a note at wheretoeat@nytimes.com.
Follow NYT Food on TikTok and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest.
Photograph Top, the dining room at Delmonico's, where you can get desserts, above left, from one of the city's best pastry chefs. Above, Mischa in Midtown East. Left, Café Chelsea, attached to the Hotel Chelsea, serves breakfast and lunch. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DELMONICO'S; COLE SALADINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALDEN PRICE) This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Chefs; Seafood; Restaurants

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/07/dining/new-york-citys-new-power-lunch-restaurants.html

Title: Invited to Lunch in the Latest Seats of Power:   [Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 13, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2956055122

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/invited-lunch-latest-seats-power/docview/2956055122/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hiring Trend Stays Strong As U.S. Adds 275,000 Jobs: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Depillis, Lydia

Publication info: Depillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hiring-trend-stays-strong-as-u-s-adds-275-000/docview/2954106737/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Economists are trying to gauge whether forecasts of a slowing labor market were mistaken or just premature. For now, gains are consistent and strong.
If the economy is slowing down, nobody told the labor market.
Employers added 275,000 jobs in February, the Labor Department reported Friday, in another month that exceeded expectations even as the unemployment rate rose.
It was the third straight month of gains above 200,000, and the 38th consecutive month of growth -- fresh evidence that four years after going into pandemic shutdowns, America's jobs engine still has plenty of steam.
"We've been expecting a slowdown in the labor market, a more material loosening in conditions, but we're just not seeing that," said Rubeela Farooqi, chief economist at High Frequency Economics.
Previously reported figures for December and January were revised downward by a total of 167,000, reflecting the higher degree of statistical volatility in the winter months. That does not disrupt a picture of consistent, robust increases.
At the same time, the unemployment rate, based on a survey of households rather than businesses, increased to a two-year high of 3.9 percent. The increase from 3.7 percent in January was driven by people losing or leaving jobs as well as those entering the labor force to look for work.
A more expansive measure of slack labor market conditions, which includes people working part time who would rather work full time, has been steadily rising and now stands at 7.3 percent.
In a positive sign, the labor force participation rate for people in their prime working years -- ages 25 to 54 -- jumped to 83.5 percent, matching a level from last year that was the highest since the early 2000s. The participation rate for those over age 55 remains markedly below its prepandemic level, potentially in part because the booming housing and stock markets have allowed more people to retire.
Average hourly earnings rose by 4.3 percent over the year. Wages have outpaced prices since last May, though the pace of increases has been fading.
"We've recently seen gains in real wages, and that's encouraged people to re-enter the labor market, and that's a good development for workers," said Kory Kantenga, a senior economist at the job search website LinkedIn. As wage growth slows, he said, the likelihood that more people will start looking for work falls.
As late as last fall, economists were predicting much more modest employment increases, with hiring concentrated in a few industries. Some pandemic-inflated industries have shed jobs, but expected downturns in sectors like construction have not materialized.
The last few months have been studded with strong economic data, prompting analysts surveyed by the National Association for Business Economics to raise their forecasts for gross domestic product and lower their expectations for the trajectory of unemployment. Inflation has eased, leading the Federal Reserve to telegraph its plans for interest rate cuts sometime this year, which many see as insurance should the job market stumble.
Mervin Jebaraj, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Arkansas, helped tabulate the survey responses. He said the mood was buoyed partly by fading trepidation over federal government shutdowns and draconian budget cuts, after several close calls since the fall. And there's no harm, he said, in a tamer but more sustainable pace.
"If we gain 150,000 jobs every month this year, that would still be an incredible year, but it would still be cooling compared to last year," Mr. Jebaraj said. "And maybe we want both things."
Moreover, some of the cooling may have allowed for more durable growth. As extreme labor shortages eased and the wave of job quitting subsided, employers unable to win bidding wars for workers have had an easier time filling positions. And as people stick around longer, productivity has improved, which makes it easier to pay more without increasing prices.
Health care and government again led the payroll gains in February, while construction continued its steady increase. Retail, restaurants, transportation and warehousing, which have been flat to negative in recent months, picked up.
No major industries lost a substantial number of jobs. High interest rates continue to suppress manufacturing, however, while credit intermediation continued its downward slide -- that sector, which mostly includes commercial banking, has lost about 123,000 jobs since early 2021.
Few businesses are more emblematic of the power behind recent employment gains than home health services for older people, which count 164,000 more jobs than before the pandemic -- fully offsetting the decline of nursing and residential care facilities, which have been less popular since Covid-19 ripped through them in 2020.
Elaine Flores is the chief operating officer of Medical Home Care Professionals, an agency in Redding, Calif., that employs 102 clinical staff members and caregivers. That's up about 20 percent since early 2020, though the net gain underestimates how many people she's had to hire as experienced providers have left the profession.
"More and more nurses are retiring out," Ms. Flores said. "That's probably the most difficult discipline to recruit, and we compete against hospitals, which have beautiful benefits packages that, on home health margins, we can't do."
Elevated levels of immigration may help with that problem in the coming years. According to an analysis by the Brookings Institution, the influx over the last two years has approximately doubled the number of jobs that the economy could add per month in 2024 without putting upward pressure on inflation, to a range of 160,000 to 200,000.
That does not mean the employment landscape looks rosy to everyone. Employee confidence, as measured by the company rating website Glassdoor, has been falling steadily as layoffs by tech and media companies have grabbed headlines. That is especially true in white-collar professions like human resources and consulting, while those in occupations that require working in person -- such as health care, construction and manufacturing -- are more upbeat.
"It is a two-track labor market," said Aaron Terrazas, Glassdoor's chief economist, noting that job searches are taking longer for people with graduate degrees. "For skilled workers in risk-intensive industries, anyone who's been laid off is having a hard time finding new jobs, whereas if you're a blue-collar or frontline service worker, it's still competitive."
Those having a hard time finding steady employment turn increasingly to gig work, Mr. Terrazas noted, which is not picked up in the payrolls data. That has been true for Clifford Johnson, 70, who retired from his accounting job in Orlando, Fla., three years ago and began drawing Social Security.
The outlook changed when Mr. Johnson separated from his husband and had to rent an apartment, which in the hot Orlando housing market costs $ 2,350 a month. He has not landed another accounting job, and a retail position did not work out. He has run through his limited savings, and for now he drives for Uber Eats full time -- even on the weekend -- to stay afloat.
"I'm just doing what I can do to make money every day," Mr. Johnson said. He's hoping a couple of contract accounting positions come through, since driving that much is physically exhausting. "If you're 25 or just graduating from college, it's a lot different than if you're 70 and still trying to make a living."
The path forward for the labor market, which few have managed to accurately predict, remains hazy. Every seeming threat so far -- including wars, substantial interest rate increases and bank collapses -- has been met with unflappability.
Thomas Simons, senior economist at the investment banking firm Jefferies, thinks the economy will look weaker at the end of the year than it does now, despite the lack of any obvious potholes.
"It's been 30-plus years since we've had an economic cycle like this, where we are waiting for enough drag to coalesce between different sectors to take the whole number down," Mr. Simons said. "I still believe it's unlikely that it's going to continue indefinitely, even without a discrete catalyst."
Photograph Representatives from New York Life, Courtney Townsend, center, and Joseph Rivera, meeting potential hires during a job fair in Miami last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MCINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Workers; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Interest rates; Unemployment; Economists; Labor force; Economic conditions; Employment; Pandemics; Labor market; Job creation

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Gross Domestic Product--GDP Federal Reserve monetary policy Interest rates Unemployment Economists Labor force Economic conditions Employment Labor market Job creation

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/08/business/economy/jobs-report-february-2024.html

Title: Hiring Trend Stays Strong As U.S. Adds 275,000 Jobs:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 9, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2954106737

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hiring-trend-stays-strong-as-u-s-adds-275-000/docview/2954106737/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Former Trump Lawyer Moves To Challenge D.A. in Atlanta: [National Desk]

Author: Fausset, Richard; Hakim, Danny

Publication info: Fausset, Richard; Hakim, Danny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/former-trump-lawyer-moves-challenge-d-atlanta/docview/2954106714/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A Republican lawyer who has worked in the Trump White House is running to unseat Fani T. Willis, the district attorney prosecuting the Georgia election interference case.
A Republican lawyer who has worked both in the Trump White House and with the Trump campaign declared on Friday that she is running to unseat Fani T. Willis, the embattled Atlanta prosecutor leading the election interference case against the former president in Georgia.
The challenger, Courtney A. Kramer, 30, qualified on Friday to run for Fulton County district attorney. As a little-known candidate and a Republican, she faces long odds in the heavily Democratic county -- former President Donald J. Trump won only 26 percent of its vote in 2020.
But she may be able to raise large sums of money from Trump supporters around the country, receive airtime on conservative media outlets and use the exposure to sow doubts about the prosecution of Mr. Trump in the run-up to the November election.
Ms. Kramer will also likely amplify the drumbeat of criticism of Ms. Willis, who is the subject of a disqualification effort backed by lawyers for Mr. Trump and his co-defendants.
The biography on Ms. Kramer's LinkedIn page lists myriad MAGA credentials. She was an intern in the White House Counsel's Office during the Trump administration and later a litigation consultant for the Trump campaign's legal team in Georgia after the 2020 election, when it was trying to keep him in power despite his loss.
She has worked at a firm run by Ray Smith III, one of Mr. Trump's co-defendants in the elections case. She has also worked as a special counsel for the Georgia Republican Party, when it was run by David Shafer, another co-defendant in the Trump case. Her résumé also includes a year as executive director of True the Vote, an organization that spreads misinformation about the 2020 election.
Ms. Kramer, in a brief interview with reporters on Friday, said that the catalyst for her campaign was the August indictment of Mr. Trump and 18 of his allies, who were accused of conspiring to overturn his 2020 election loss in Georgia. (Four defendants have since pleaded guilty.)
She described the indictment as the "moment that I said I've had enough," and added: "The resources that were used for that investigation could have been used for many other things that would have been much more beneficial for the citizens of Fulton County."
The candidacy is another headache for Ms. Willis, a Democrat who took office in January 2021. A judge has said he will rule this month on the disqualification motions, which claim that Ms. Willis created a conflict of interest by receiving gifts from a romantic partner whom she hired to manage the Trump case. Ms. Willis denies there is a conflict of interest and is fighting to stay on the case.
Ms. Kramer would not say whether she would move to dismiss the Trump indictment if elected. However, she said of Mr. Trump: "I do not think he broke the law." She also said that if Ms. Willis is not disqualified, it would set "a horrible precedent for D.A.'s across the state and across the country."
A Democratic challenger to Ms. Willis also qualified for the ballot on Friday. Christian Wise Smith, a former prosecutor, ran unsuccessfully for Fulton County district attorney in 2020, and for Georgia attorney general in 2022.
After qualifying, Mr. Smith said he had registered to keep his options open and was not sure whether he would actually campaign for the job.
Election Day for the district attorney's race is Nov. 5, the same day voters will head to the polls to make their pick for president.
Photograph Courtney A. Kramer worked as a consultant for the Trump campaign's legal team in Georgia after the 2020 election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATRICE MILLER/ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Conflicts of interest; District attorneys; Elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Conflicts of interest

Location: United States--US; Georgia; Atlanta Georgia

People: Trump, Donald J; Willis, Fani

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/08/us/courtney-kramer-fani-willis-election.html

Title: Former Trump Lawyer Moves To Challenge D.A. in Atlanta:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 9, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2954106714

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/former-trump-lawyer-moves-challenge-d-atlanta/docview/2954106714/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2024

Last updated: 2025-07-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Covert Operation Used a Phony Investor To Target Orban Critics: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Higgins, Andrew

Publication info: Higgins, Andrew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-covert-operation-used-phony-investor-target/docview/2954106698/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A covert campaign to entrap and discredit people linked to rights groups in Hungary has added fuel to longstanding complaints of democratic backsliding in the country.
Kati Marton, a Hungarian-born American writer, thought she was talking with a friend of Gen. Wesley Clark, NATO's former commander in Europe. The man, who had sent her a résumé describing himself as a "results-oriented wealth and investment manager" living in Switzerland, said he was exploring green energy opportunities in Eastern Europe.
Ms. Marton didn't mind when he steered the conversation to Hungary, something she knew about, having written three books about the country, including "Enemies of the People," an account of her parents' 1955 jailing in and subsequent flight from Budapest.
Today, more than half a year after what she thought would be a private Zoom call, Ms. Marton thinks she has figured out what was really going on: an elaborate dirty-tricks operation aimed at entrapping and smearing critics of Hungary's prime minister, Viktor Orban.
On Jan. 31, snippets from a surreptitiously recorded video of Ms. Marton's conversation with the purported investor surfaced on the X social media platform, on an account called MagaBabe.
The account, which also posted secret recordings of General Clark and others hoodwinked by the operation, says it is run by a "Good Christian Girl from the South lookin for a Good Christian Man." The recordings on MagaBabe, which mainly reposts material cheering former president Donald J. Trump, were quickly trumpeted by Mr. Orban's media machine in Hungary.
Just hours after the video excerpts appeared, Mandiner, a news site owned by a media foundation controlled by loyalists of Mr. Orban, cited them as evidence that Ms. Marton and other people it labeled "black belt" agents of the Hungarian-born financier George Soros were conspiring to topple the Hungarian government.
"MagaBabe dropped an atomic bomb," Mandiner said of the recordings, a jumble of disjointed clips.
In some of the clips, the purported investor -- whose voice has been electronically distorted to avoid identification -- can be heard pushing Ms. Marton and Gen. Clark to say that Mr. Soros is funding opponents of Mr. Orban. "Yeah. Don't even say that," Ms. Marton says in one clip. In another, when Gen. Clark talks about Mr. Soros' work in Ukraine instead of Hungary, the video cuts out and resumes with the investor prodding him to talk about Americans giving money to support the Hungarian opposition. "None like George," the general says.
Origo, another outlet owned by the same foundation, claimed the videos had "blown the lid off the falsehoods of the opposition" and exposed its ties to foreign money.
"It is totally Kremlin-esque. We are back in the '50s," said Ms. Marton, who chairs the advisory board of the New York-based Action for Democracy, which supports activists in Hungary and elsewhere. "They have cast me in the same role as my parents, as an enemy of the people."
The MagaBabe account that posted the videos "is not authentic at all," said Brian Liston, an analyst with Recorded Future, a cybersecurity company. One post that claimed to be a picture of the user behind it, he said, was actually a photo of a Swedish model.
The first point of contact for the person who duped Ms. Marton was General Clark. They exchanged emails starting last April and then met up for dinners in Prague and Amsterdam to talk about Eastern Europe.
"He was very, very subtle," the general recalled. "He seemed genuine."
A phone number in Switzerland and an email address that the purported investor used are no longer operative.
Snippets of the conversations with Ms. Marton and General Clark released on the X platform revealed nothing beyond what has long been public knowledge -- that Mr. Soros has, starting in the late 1980s, funded groups promoting democracy across formerly communist Eastern and Central Europe.
Hungary has also supported causes abroad, like sponsoring an annual gathering in Budapest of CPAC, the Conservative Political Action Committee, an American political group linked to Mr. Trump's MAGA movement. Mr. Orban is flying to the United States this week to visit Mr. Trump at Mar-a-Lago.
Yet in the telling of the Center for Fundamental Rights, a government-funded Hungarian group that sponsors Hungary's CPAC events, MagaBabe's videos proved that "the American left's express goal is to overthrow the Hungarian national government and Viktor Orban." The center's director declined to be interviewed.
Also jumping quickly on the recordings was a new Hungarian state agency called the Office for the Defense of Sovereignty. The office was established under recently passed legislation aimed at punishing interactions deemed subversive between foreigners and Hungarians. The European Union's executive arm says the legislation violates democratic values and fundamental rights like freedom of association.
Tamas Lanczi, the head of the office, told Mandiner that the videos pointed to possible crimes that needed to be investigated. Mr. Lanczi declined to be interviewed.
"We are not in Russia yet. We are not falling out of windows," said Lukacs Csaba, managing director of Magyar Hang, a conservative weekly that is critical of Mr. Orban, referring to the mysterious accidents that have befallen critics of President Vladimir V. Putin in Russia. "But we are moving step by step closer to that."
Agoston Mraz, director of the Nezopont Institute, a group that conducts opinion polls for Mr. Orban's government, scoffed at such complaints.
"Hungarians are not living in a dictatorship," Mr. Mraz said.
He noted that the government still faced media scrutiny, which in February forced the resignation of Hungary's president, an ally of Mr. Orban, after revelations that she had pardoned a man convicted of covering up pedophilia in a state children's home.
The Hungarian government's International Communications Office did not respond to a request for comment.
Ms. Marton said the operation against her and others involved with Action for Democracy, like General Clark, who also sits on its advisory board, bore the hallmarks of Black Cube, an Israeli private intelligence company that the networking platform LinkedIn says has used its services to entrap Hungarian activists.
LinkedIn has said it has taken down a number of accounts linked to the company and misused to target activists in Hungary.
Microsoft, LinkedIn's owner, said Black Cube had "leveraged honeypot profiles, fake jobs and fake companies to engage in reconnaissance or human intelligence" operations against "targets with access to organizations of interest and/or concern" to its clients.
A researcher for LinkedIn, Mona Damian, said in November that these targets included people selected "as part of a campaign to discredit N.G.O.s in Hungary."
Black Cube did not respond to a request for comment.
Eric Koch, an American communications consultant, said he had been contacted on LinkedIn last summer by a man claiming to be looking for advice for Polish law firms.
Given an all-expenses-paid trip to the Netherlands in August to discuss possible collaborations, Mr. Koch met the man in an Amsterdam hotel conference room and was then taken to dinner and plied with wine.
Mr. Koch said the man "badgered" him for information about funding for Action for Democracy. Mr. Koch worked for the group for a few weeks in New York in 2022 but said he knew nothing about its finances.
After returning home, he put the encounter behind him -- until MagaBabe posted heavily edited segments from a video secretly recorded in Amsterdam in which, after repeated prodding, he speculated that Mr. Soros was funding the organization.
"Action for Democracy Admitted That George Soros Is Its Main Supporter," claimed a headline a few days later in Magyar Nemzet, a pro-government Hungarian outlet.
A spokesman for Mr. Soros's organization said, "Action for Democracy is not and has never been a grantee of the Open Society Foundations, nor do the Open Society Foundations fund political parties in Hungary."
The main purpose of the operation targeting Mr. Koch seems to have been to add substance to a conspiracy theory outlined in a declassified November 2022 report on foreign interference by Hungary's National Information Center, an arm of its intelligence apparatus.
The report detailed a supposed web of subversive intrigue involving Mr. Soros, Action for Democracy, the National Endowment for Democracy -- described as the "soft power arm of the C.I.A. abroad" -- and a host of other, mostly American, actors, including General Clark and Ms. Marton.
David Pressman, the American ambassador to Hungary, said, "We have paid attention to Hungary's use of a component of its intelligence services to target American citizens," adding that he "could not opine on the provenance" of the recent videos. The MagaBabe recordings, he said, represented "the first time we have seen this kind of activity take place on U.S. soil" in relation to Hungary's "perceived opponents."
In the summer of 2021, Jeney Orsolya, the former head of Amnesty International's Budapest office, was contacted via LinkedIn by a woman who claimed to be recruiting for a leadership position in Budapest with a new organization.
But there was no job and no new group, Ms. Orsolya realized months later when, shortly before Hungary's election in April 2022, Magyar Nemzet posted an edited video of her "job interviews" and misrepresented what she had said under the headline "Former Director of Amnesty: The Human Rights Organization Acts as Part of the Opposition."
"This is not just about me being fooled but about a meticulously planned operation to trap me and other people for government propaganda against nongovernmental organizations and civil society," Ms. Orsolya said.
It was just a foretaste of what would come with MagaBabe.
The main target of that operation seems to have been David Koranyi, a dual Hungarian and American citizen who is the executive director in New York of Action for Democracy.
He said a man contacted him last year claiming to be an investor called George Koufis, the same name used by the person who had entrapped General Clark and Ms. Marton.
"I had a bad feeling about this guy," Mr. Koranyi recalled in a telephone interview. But he agreed to a Zoom call and offered an innocuous account of Action for Democracy's U.S. status as a legally registered charity that is not required to release the names of donors.
Their call took place on Aug. 28, but short video excerpts, edited to look as if he were suggesting that he was hiding funding from Mr. Soros, appeared on MagaBabe's X account only in late January -- just as Hungary's new Office for the Defense of Sovereignty was starting its work.
"The timing is not a coincidence. They wanted to wait until it was up and running because they wanted something to investigate," Mr. Koranyi said.
Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from San Francisco.
Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from San Francisco.
Photograph Kati Marton in 2019. Parts of a Zoom call Ms. Marton had with a "results-oriented wealth and investment manager" were posted on social media by an account called MagaBabe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AURORA ROSE/PATRICK MCMULLAN, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Much of the social media campaign seemed to be directed at the philanthropist George Soros.; Critics of Hungary's right-wing prime minister, Viktor Orban, appear to have faced an elaborate dirty-tricks operation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENES ERDOS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A5.

Subject: Political activism; Activists; Video recordings; Funding; Democracy; Covert operations; Espionage

Location: Hungary; Switzerland; Russia; New York; United States--US; Eastern Europe

People: Orban, Viktor; Soros, George

Company / organization: Name: Open Society Foundations; NAICS: 813211; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/07/world/europe/orban-hungary-trump-investor.html

Title: How Covert Operation Used a Phony Investor To Target Orban Critics:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 9, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2954106698

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-covert-operation-used-phony-investor-target/docview/2954106698/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Employers Add 275,000 Jobs in Another Strong Month

Author: DePillis, Lydia

Publication info: DePillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-employers-add-275-000-jobs-another-strong/docview/2950004637/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
If the economy is slowing down, nobody told the labor market.
Employers added 275,000 jobs in February, the Labor Department reported Friday, in another month that exceeded expectations even as the unemployment rate rose.
It was the third straight month of gains above 200,000 and the 38th consecutive month of growth — fresh evidence that four years after going into pandemic shutdowns, America’s jobs engine still has plenty of steam.
“We’ve been expecting a slowdown in the labor market, a more material loosening in conditions, but we’re just not seeing that,” said Rubeela Farooqi, chief economist at High Frequency Economics.
Previously reported figures for December and January were revised downward by a total of 167,000, reflecting the higher degree of statistical volatility in the winter months. That does not disrupt a picture of consistent, robust increases.
At the same time, the unemployment rate, based on a survey of households rather than businesses, increased to a two-year high of 3.9%. The increase from 3.7% in January was driven by people losing or leaving jobs as well as those entering the labor force to look for work.
A more expansive measure of slack labor market conditions, which includes people working part time who would rather work full time, has been steadily rising and now stands at 7.3%.
In a positive sign, the labor force participation rate for people in their prime working years — ages 25 to 54 — jumped to 83.5%, matching a level from last year that was the highest since the early 2000s. The participation rate for those older than 55 remains markedly below its pre-pandemic level, potentially in part because the booming housing and stock markets have allowed more people to retire.
Average hourly earnings rose 4.3% over the year. Wages have outpaced prices since May, though the pace of increases has been fading.
“We’ve recently seen gains in real wages, and that’s encouraged people to reenter the labor market, and that’s a good development for workers,” said Kory Kantenga, a senior economist at job search website LinkedIn. As wage growth slows, he said, the likelihood that more people will start looking for work falls.
As late as the fall, economists were predicting much more modest employment increases, with hiring concentrated in a few industries. Some pandemic-inflated industries have shed jobs, but expected downturns in sectors such as construction have not materialized.
The last few months have been studded with strong economic data, prompting analysts surveyed by the National Association for Business Economics to raise their forecasts for gross domestic product and lower their expectations for the trajectory of unemployment. Inflation has eased, leading the Federal Reserve to telegraph its plans for interest rate cuts sometime this year, which many see as insurance should the job market stumble.
Mervin Jebaraj, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Arkansas, helped tabulate the survey responses. He said the mood was buoyed partly by fading trepidation over federal government shutdowns and draconian budget cuts, after several close calls since the fall. And there’s no harm, he said, in a tamer but more sustainable pace.
“If we gain 150,000 jobs every month this year, that would still be an incredible year, but it would still be cooling compared to last year,” Jebaraj said. “And maybe we want both things.”
Moreover, some of the cooling may have allowed for more durable growth. As extreme labor shortages eased and the wave of job quitting subsided, employers unable to win bidding wars for workers have had an easier time filling positions. And as people stick around longer, productivity has improved, which makes it easier to pay more without increasing prices.
Health care and government again led the payroll gains in February, while construction continued its steady increase. Retail, restaurants, transportation and warehousing, which have been flat to negative in recent months, picked up.
No major industries lost a substantial number of jobs. High interest rates continue to suppress manufacturing, however, while credit intermediation continued its downward slide — that sector, which mostly includes commercial banking, has lost about 123,000 jobs since early 2021.
Few businesses are more emblematic of the power behind recent employment gains than home health services for older people, which count 164,000 more jobs than before the pandemic — fully offsetting the decline of nursing and residential care facilities, which have been less popular since COVID-19 ripped through them in 2020.
Elaine Flores is the chief operating officer of Medical Home Care Professionals, an agency in Redding, California, that employs 102 clinical staff members and caregivers. That’s up about 20% since early 2020, though the net gain underestimates how many people she’s had to hire as experienced providers have left the profession.
“More and more nurses are retiring out,” Flores said. “That’s probably the most difficult discipline to recruit, and we compete against hospitals, which have beautiful benefits packages that, on home health margins, we can’t do.”
Elevated levels of immigration may help with that problem in the coming years. According to an analysis by the Brookings Institution, the influx over the last two years has approximately doubled the number of jobs that the economy could add per month in 2024 without putting upward pressure on inflation, to a range of 160,000 to 200,000.
That does not mean the employment landscape looks rosy to everyone.
Employee confidence, as measured by company rating website Glassdoor, has been falling steadily as layoffs by tech and media companies have grabbed headlines. That is especially true in white-collar professions such as human resources and consulting, while those in occupations that require working in person — such as health care, construction and manufacturing — are more upbeat.
“It is a two-track labor market,” said Aaron Terrazas, Glassdoor’s chief economist, noting that job searches are taking longer for people with graduate degrees. “For skilled workers in risk-intensive industries, anyone who’s been laid off is having a hard time finding new jobs, whereas if you’re a blue-collar or front-line service worker, it’s still competitive.”
Those having a hard time finding steady employment turn increasingly to gig work, Terrazas noted, which is not picked up in the payrolls data.
That has been true for Clifford Johnson, 70, who retired from his accounting job in Orlando, Florida, three years ago and began drawing Social Security.
The outlook changed when Johnson separated from his husband and had to rent an apartment, which in the hot Orlando housing market costs $2,350 a month. He has not landed another accounting job, and a retail position did not work out. He has run through his limited savings, and for now he drives for Uber Eats full time — even on the weekend — to stay afloat.
“I’m just doing what I can do to make money every day,” Johnson said. He’s hoping a couple of contract accounting positions come through, since driving that much is physically exhausting. “If you’re 25 or just graduating from college, it’s a lot different than if you’re 70 and still trying to make a living.”
The path forward for the labor market, which few have managed to accurately predict, remains hazy. Every seeming threat so far — including wars, substantial interest rate increases and bank collapses — has been met with unflappability.
Thomas Simons, senior economist at investment banking firm Jefferies, thinks the economy will look weaker at the end of the year than it does now, despite the lack of any obvious potholes.
“It’s been 30-plus years since we’ve had an economic cycle like this, where we are waiting for enough drag to coalesce between different sectors to take the whole number down,” Simons said. “I still believe it’s unlikely that it’s going to continue indefinitely, even without a discrete catalyst.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Workers; Labor force; Economic conditions; Employment; Pandemics; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Employers; Interest rates; Unemployment; Economists; Labor market

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Labor force Economic conditions Employment Gross Domestic Product--GDP Federal Reserve monetary policy Employers Interest rates Unemployment Economists Labor market

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Unemployment; Arkansas; Wages And Salaries; Federal Budget (Us); Redding (Calif); Business; United States Economy; Banking And Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; Shortages; Florida; Linkedin Corporation; Home Health Care; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; California; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Stimulus (Economic); Gross Domestic Product; Hiring And Promotion; National Assn For Business Economics; Jefferies Group Inc; Uber Eats; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Health Insurance And Managed Care; Shopping And Retail; Part Time Employment; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Elderly; University Of Arkansas; Shutdowns (Institutional); Brookings Institution; Factories And Manufacturing; Orlando (Fla); Performance Evaluations (Labor); Stocks And Bonds; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs

Title: U.S. Employers Add 275,000 Jobs in Another Strong Month

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 8, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-08T23:56:29Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2950004637

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-employers-add-275-000-jobs-another-strong/docview/2950004637/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ex-Google Engineer Charged With Stealing A.I. Secrets for Chinese Firm: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Thrush, Glenn; Grant, Nico

Publication info: Thrush, Glenn; Grant, Nico. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-google-engineer-charged-with-stealing-i/docview/2938156987/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Linwei Ding, a Chinese national, was arrested in California and accused of uploading hundreds of files to the cloud.
A Chinese citizen who recently quit his job as a software engineer for Google in California has been charged with trying to transfer artificial intelligence technology to a Beijing-based company that paid him secretly, according to a federal indictment unsealed on Wednesday.
Prosecutors accused Linwei Ding, who was part of the team that designs and maintains Google's vast A.I. supercomputer data system, of stealing information about the "architecture and functionality" of the system, and of pilfering software used to "orchestrate" supercomputers "at the cutting edge of machine learning and A.I. technology."
From May 2022 to May 2023, Mr. Ding, also known as Leon, uploaded 500 files, many containing trade secrets, from his Google-issued laptop to the cloud by using a multistep scheme that allowed him to "evade immediate detection," according to the U.S. attorney's office for the Northern District of California.
Mr. Ding was arrested on Wednesday morning at his home in Newark, Calif., not far from Google's sprawling main campus in Mountain View, officials said.
Starting in June 2022, Mr. Ding was paid $ 14,800 per month -- plus a bonus and company stock -- by a China-based technology company, without telling his supervisors at Google, according to the indictment. He is also accused of working with another company in China.
Mr. Ding openly sought funding for a new A.I. start-up company he had incorporated at an investor conference in Beijing in November, boasting that "we have experience with Google's 10,000-card computational power platform; we just need to replicate and upgrade it," prosecutors said in the indictment, which was unsealed in San Francisco federal court.
"The Justice Department will not tolerate the theft of artificial intelligence and other advanced technologies that could put our national security at risk," said Attorney General Merrick B. Garland, who announced the indictment during an appearance at an American Bar Association conference in San Francisco on Wednesday afternoon.
The charges underscore the high-stakes contest for primacy in artificial intelligence. While American companies have developed most advances in generative A.I., China has made it a strategic priority to lead the growing field.
Tech industry insiders have estimated that China is at least a year behind the United States, but many Chinese start-ups have tapped American technology to try to keep up, especially Meta's open-source large language model, called Llama. Generative A.I., which is behind ChatGPT and the wave of conversational chatbots, has quickly become one of the world's most coveted technologies.
In seconds, these types of tools can generate convincing text and images that could be used to boost productivity, create misinformation or provide amusement. Audio and video capabilities are not far behind. Google developed some of the foundational breakthroughs that make these systems work. The company has said that its latest group of A.I. models, named Gemini, are among the most powerful available today.
But since ChatGPT's debut, Google has lost its status as a market leader and its stumbles have attracted attention. The company has been widely criticized for racial biases in its image generator, leading it to pause users' ability to create images of people.
Accusations of intellectual property theft have been a major sticking point in U.S.-China relations for years. A Chinese national was arrested in 2015 for selling some of IBM's source code to parties in China. In 2018, a former Apple employee was apprehended as he tried to board a flight to Beijing with the company's autonomous-driving trade secrets.
The same year, the Chinese firm Sinovel Wind Group was convicted of stealing wind turbine technology from a Massachusetts-based company, AMSC, which incurred more than $ 800 million in losses.
In October, Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, said that intellectual property theft from China was a danger to U.S. economic and national security, describing it as the "defining threat of this generation."
José Castañeda, a Google spokesman, said in a statement: "We have strict safeguards to prevent the theft of our confidential commercial information and trade secrets. After an investigation, we found that this employee stole numerous documents, and we quickly referred the case to law enforcement. We are grateful to the F.B.I. for helping protect our information and will continue cooperating with them closely."
The indictment suggested that Mr. Ding had some help, saying that another Google employee swiped Mr. Ding's identification card at a company office to help him conceal a trip to China.
Google, referring to Mr. Ding as a "junior employee," initially said he had acted alone but later said that did not appear to be the case. It maintained that its security systems had worked as intended.
It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Ding has legal representation.
The government offered few details about the life of Mr. Ding, who began working for Google in early 2019 and quit suddenly in January -- after booking a one-way ticket to Beijing.
Mr. Ding listed a degree from the Dalian Institute of Technology in China in 2010, along with degrees from the University of Southern California and Stanford, on a LinkedIn page that corresponded to his name and the details of employment at Google.
The page lists stints at software semiconductor and health care companies over the past decade, along with awards he said he earned at Google, including the "Perfy Award and Feats of Engineering."
Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.
Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A8.

Subject: Software; Theft; Artificial intelligence; Arrests; National security; Intellectual property; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

Location: China; California; Beijing China; United States--US; San Francisco California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/06/us/politics/google-engineer-china-ai-theft.html

Title: Ex-Google Engineer Charged With Stealing A.I. Secrets for Chinese Firm:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 7, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2938156987

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-google-engineer-charged-with-stealing-i/docview/2938156987/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Turning Corporate Speak Into a Language of Love: [Society Desk]

Author: Lagorce, Tammy

Publication info: Lagorce, Tammy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/turning-corporate-speak-into-language-love/docview/2933854955/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Andrew McCaskill was happy to provide career advice when Marcus Johnson reached out, but he was also hoping for something more.
Andrew McCaskill slid into Marcus Dwayne Johnson's Instagram direct messages in September 2019 with a flirty note, telling him that he looked really cute in a suit he was modeling. The message he finally got back six weeks later wasn't quite as playful.
"I'm thinking he's going to be like, 'Hey, Big Papa,"' Mr. McCaskill said with a laugh.
Instead, "Marcus was like, 'Hi Drew, I see you've recently made a career transition, and I have a current career scenario I'm navigating,"' he said.
Though the corporate speak they settled into just after wasn't exactly a love language, Mr. McCaskill, then an independent diversity, equity and inclusion consultant in Harlem, felt a tug to pay it forward. "Sometimes, being Black and gay, you're sort of like a double minority," he said. "What I didn't want to do was be the guy who didn't help out another Black gay man who was having a career issue. Especially one who was younger."
Mr. McCaskill, 46, told Mr. Johnson, 30, to send him his résumé. Minutes later, it was in his inbox. "I was at a crossroads," Mr. Johnson said, about a potential move between corporate jobs in Atlanta, where he lived.
Mr. McCaskill's skills as a workplace negotiator had preceded him. "I had been following his career online a little bit," Mr. Johnson said. "I thought, he's cute, he's smart and he's older than me. Maybe he has some experience he can share."
Mr. McCaskill, now a career expert and global communications leader at LinkedIn, didn't hold back: Over phone and FaceTime, the two spent more than a month that fall hammering out a deal that included an exit package from Mr. Johnson's old company, Altria, and a better salary at the new one, PepsiCo. Mr. Johnson, now a senior talent acquisition manager for early careers and diversity, equity and inclusion at IHG Hotels & Resorts, came away grateful.
In December 2019, "he said, 'this was amazing. I really want to thank you for helping me,"' Mr. McCaskill said. But by then Mr. McCaskill had arrived at a crossroads of his own. "I said to Marcus, 'Look, Mr. Mentor has left the building. If you really want to thank me, you'll let me take you on a date."' Two days later, he was on a flight to Atlanta. The "gay game face, the GQ Mack Daddy vibe" he said he had tried to put on months earlier on Instagram was back in play.
Mr. McCaskill grew up on a dirt road in Sandy Hook, Miss., a town so small it doesn't have a traffic light, he said. His mother was a schoolteacher and his father an offshore engineer; he has an older brother and an older sister. Before he left for Morehouse College, where he graduated in 1999 with a bachelor's degree in English and political science, he came out to his family. "I said, 'Hey I'm gay, see you at Christmas,"' he said with a laugh. In his early 20s he settled into a relationship that lasted eight years. "And then I was single for a very long time."
A lot of those single years were spent in New York City, where he worked as a senior vice president for the public relations firm Weber Shandwick and then the media company Nielsen; in 2012, he earned an M.B.A. from Emory University. The shift to independent consulting that coincided with meeting Mr. Johnson gave him a break from corporate America. But it didn't give him a break from dressing to impress, which is what brought him in 2019 to the brand Lavoisier's Instagram page.
Binge more Vows columns here and read all our wedding, relationship and divorce coverage here .
Mr. McCaskill, who is 6-foot-2, had heard from a friend that Lavoisier's designer, Cortez Jackson, specialized in custom suits for large men. He started scrolling. "He had great suits," he said. But the good looks of one of the men modeling them thoroughly distracted him: "Marcus is gorgeous."
Mr. Johnson was raised in Detroit, where he alternated between two loving homes. "My parents were best friends, but they were never together," he said. He has eight stepsiblings. In 2015, he graduated from Texas Southern University with a bachelor's degree in public affairs. Three years later, he earned an M.B.A. from American University. When he went to work at Philip Morris (now Altria) in Atlanta in 2018, Mr. Jackson, the designer, was a co-worker. In 2019, hoping to increase Lavoisier's social media traffic, Mr. Jackson enlisted Mr. Johnson to model.
He was in a relationship when Mr. McCaskill stopped clicking through suits to message him. But that relationship was winding down. "That's part of the reason my response was delayed," Mr. Johnson said. The other part was the career conundrum Mr. McCaskill eventually walked him through. When Mr. McCaskill offered to fly to Atlanta to take him on a date, his first thought was, "This is aggressive, but I like aggressive." By then, "I had a crush on him, too."
On Dec. 19, 2019, Mr. McCaskill and Mr. Johnson had dinner at the Atlanta restaurant JCT Kitchen. "Then we walked around a nice part of the city holding hands," Mr. Johnson said. "It was organically romantic." On an unnamed bridge under moonlight, they kissed.
Their next date started Dec. 30 and didn't end until Jan. 2. Mr. McCaskill, who had been visiting family in Mississippi for Christmas, asked Mr. Johnson to meet him in New Orleans. "For four days, we had a blast," Mr. McCaskill said. But it was their final night there, over room service and a "Real Housewives" binge, that convinced Mr. Johnson he was falling in love. "We talked, we laughed," he said. "I was like, Wow, we could have a good time even in the quieter moments."
On March 26, 2020, in the very early days of the pandemic, Mr. McCaskill packed a duffel bag and backpack and left New York to quarantine with Mr. Johnson in Atlanta. "I didn't spend another night in Manhattan until August," he said. "My apartment became the most expensive storage unit in the history of storage units." But the cost was worth it: By the end of that year, they had learned everything about each other, both said, including how each looked without haircuts. And they were inseparable anyway.
Mr. McCaskill made his move to Atlanta permanent in September 2020. "I knew it was only a matter of time until we decided to jump the broom," Mr. Johnson said. "But I wasn't putting any pressure on him to propose. I was happy."
On Jan. 1, 2023, when Mr. McCaskill dropped to one knee in Los Angeles the day after a friend's wedding, Mr. Johnson was surprised but ready. At the restaurant Avra Beverly Hills, "he told me how much he loved me, how much I had changed his life," he said. When Mr. McCaskill pulled a diamond engagement ring from his suit pocket, "I was boohooing. I said yes."
On Feb. 10, at the Biltmore hotel in Atlanta, Mr. Johnson and Mr. McCaskill were married before 230 guests by La Shaun Jones, the pastor at Refreshing Word Church of Atlanta. The grooms, in custom Tom Ford tuxedos, walked together down an aisle brightened with white flowers. The groomsmen they met at the altar wore Lavoisier suits.
In handwritten vows, Mr. McCaskill told Mr. Johnson he had turned on lights in his heart that had gone dark. Mr. Johnson said that every day, Mr. McCaskill makes him feel like the only man on the planet. The broom Mr. Johnson knew they would one day jump was waiting for them when Ms. Jones pronounced them married. But the moment, both said, wasn't just for them.
In addition to honoring Black couples who started the tradition because they couldn't legally marry, they were thinking of generations of gay couples whose lifetime commitments also went unrecognized. "We wanted to honor our partnership and honor them," Mr. McCaskill said.
The rest of the room did, too: "People cheered, because they all knew the symbolism," he said. "They were ecstatic."
On This Day
When Feb. 10, 2024
Where The Atlanta Biltmore Hotel, Atlanta
Two Grooms and a Gizmo When guests arrived at the Biltmore, they were greeted with wine and champagne. After the ceremony in the Imperial Ballroom, they gathered in the foyer for cocktails and passed hors d'oeuvres, including lamb chops and deviled eggs topped with caviar. Supper in the Georgian Ballroom was presented as a dual entree: marinated braised short ribs and chicken roulade. A wedding cake topper featured two miniature grooms and a miniature schnauzer, a nod to the couple's beloved dog, Gizmo.
One Plus One Equals Everything A harpist and violinist from the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra played contemporary R&B songs as guests filed in for the ceremony. Minutes later, Caleb Sasser, a contestant on NBC's "The Voice" sang the couple down the aisle to Beyoncé's "1+1." During cocktail hour, the Imperial Ballroom was transformed into what the couple called Club Love. "Our friends love to party, and we're known for showing them a good time," Mr. McCaskill said. Before the grooms danced the night away with friends, they shared their first dance as husbands to "Let's Stay Together," performed by Mr. Sasser.
Photograph Top, Marcus Johnson, left, and Andrew McCaskill at their Feb. 10 wedding celebration in Atlanta. A night of room service and "Real Housewives" was when Mr. Johnson realized he was falling in love. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLTON INIJE PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Weddings; Careers; Orchestras; Personal profiles

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers Orchestras

Location: United States--US; Atlanta Georgia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/01/style/andrew-mccaskill-marcus-johnson-wedding.html

Title: Turning Corporate Speak Into a Language of Love:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 3, 2024

column: Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2933854955

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/turning-corporate-speak-into-language-love/docview/2933854955/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Airman's Winding Path Ended in Fiery Protest of War in Gaza: [National Desk]

Author: Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Edmonds, Colbi

Publication info: Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Edmonds, Colbi. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-airmans-winding-path-ended-fiery-protest-war/docview/2933688863/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Aaron Bushnell, the cyberdefense operations specialist who lit himself on fire to protest Israel's killing of Palestinians, had left an isolated Christian community for the Air Force before turning to activism.
Dressed in his U.S. Air Force uniform, Aaron Bushnell walked up to the Israeli embassy in Washington one afternoon this week and calmly described his intention to "engage in an extreme act of protest" against Israel's military offensive in Gaza.
He proceeded to pour a flammable liquid over his buzz-cut head, pulled his camouflage cap tightly over his forehead and lit himself on fire. "Free Palestine!" he shouted several times before collapsing onto the cement.
In the days since his stunning act, which Mr. Bushnell captured on a livestream, friends and relatives have been trying to understand how a young man they once knew as a shy, thoughtful boy in an isolated Christian community in Massachusetts, who went on to become a senior airman working on cyberdefense in Texas, came to mount such a final, fatal protest.
"It's hard to wrap my head around," said Ashley Schuman, 26, who has known Mr. Bushnell since childhood. "I'm just like, 'How? How did you get here?"'
Mr. Bushnell's self-immolation has spurred a flurry of vigils in his honor, prompted new protests against Israel's attacks and led to criticism from some who viewed the protest as a suicidal act that should not be celebrated.
His was the second such protest in the United States in recent months. In December, a woman with a Palestinian flag lit herself on fire outside of the Israeli consulate building in Atlanta; she was not identified, and she has remained hospitalized, currently listed in stable condition. On Wednesday, Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, asked the Defense Department whether Mr. Bushnell had ever shown any "extremist leanings" in the past.
Recent writings from Mr. Bushnell, 25, suggest that he had carefully planned his action to focus attention on Israel's assault on Palestinians in Gaza, where the local health ministry says nearly 30,000 Palestinians have been killed. Israel launched its campaign in October after a Hamas-led attack in which roughly 1,200 Israelis were killed and about 250 more people were taken hostage, according to Israeli authorities.
In the hours before Mr. Bushnell's protest, he sent an email to several independent news outlets with the subject line "Against genocide" that included a link to a website where a video of his self-immolation later appeared. "I ask that you make sure that the footage is preserved and reported on," he wrote. Mr. Bushnell had also sent a will to a friend in recent days, allocating his possessions.
In recent years, according to those who knew him, Mr. Bushnell had grown increasingly distant from both his conservative upbringing and his career in the military, throwing himself into leftist and anarchist activism, talking often about alleviating poverty and opposing capitalism. Along the way, he came to reject the small, deeply religious enclave along Cape Cod Bay where he was raised, friends said.
Some former members of the neighborhood, known as the Community of Jesus, have alleged that they were psychologically abused. Mr. Bushnell's family members have not spoken publicly, and a woman who answered the phone at the listed number for the Community of Jesus declined to respond or take a message.
Ms. Schuman, who, like Mr. Bushnell, was born into the community, said both of them dealt with anxiety in their teenage years from the high expectations and tight restrictions imposed by the community's leaders and teachers. They attended a communal home-school there, although Mr. Bushnell also spent a year at the public high school.
In the summer of 2016, after graduating high school, he visited Israel and the West Bank on a trip led by the Community of Jesus that brought members to historic locations in the Bible, Ms. Schuman said. She did not recall any significant discussion of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict during the trip, but said that the students spent a day in the West Bank city of Bethlehem and spoke with several students at Bethlehem University, a Catholic college there.
"I know that trip meant a lot to every single one of us in the group," she said.
In the years after Ms. Schuman and Mr. Bushnell graduated high school, they each began to consider whether to remain in the community. The community's constitution, known as "The Rule of Life," describes a system of advancement in which adherents can, over several years, reach a status that includes taking a vow of membership "for life." Instead, Mr. Bushnell told Ms. Schuman in the fall of 2019 that he would be leaving.
He moved out of the community, where he had lived with his parents and younger brother, and worked at a pawnshop elsewhere in Massachusetts for a brief period before beginning active duty in the Air Force in May 2020, stationed in San Antonio.
Ms. Schuman, who had also chosen to leave the community, said they spoke regularly by phone about handling the transition; Mr. Bushnell told her that he had been talking to a therapist and urged her to also see one, she said.
In their calls, Mr. Bushnell told Ms. Schuman that he spent most of his working hours behind a computer. He often sounded stressed, she said, and seemed to lack the enthusiasm that he had shown during boot camp or back in school, when he was a quiet boy who would grow passionate about history lessons and C.S. Lewis novels.
Away from work, he seemed increasingly intent on solving the problem of homelessness. Ms. Schuman said she grew concerned when Mr. Bushnell told her that he had been sending a substantial amount of money to a woman in another state who said she was a homeless mother. Ms. Schuman believed the two had never met.
"He didn't really share very much, other than wanting me to keep her in my prayers," Ms. Schuman recalled. "I was just like, 'Whoa, Aaron, you don't even know this person.' But I think what fueled him was that he was helping somebody else less fortunate than him."
Into 2021, Mr. Bushnell still spoke of possibly returning to the commune on Cape Cod one day, something that was difficult for Ms. Schuman to hear as she sought a new life away from it. Eventually, they stopped speaking.
Another friend said that Mr. Bushnell complained mildly about his Air Force job -- shifting schedules, lack of sleep -- and occasionally spoke of his disagreements with the U.S. military over past conflicts, such as the invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan.
In November 2022, fresh off a vacation to Hawaii with his younger brother, Mr. Bushnell showed up alone at an event hosted by the Party for Socialism and Liberation in San Antonio, where he quickly made a new group of friends.
Lupe Barboza, 32, said she and her friends invited him to join their mutual aid group's weekly visits to homeless encampments. She said Mr. Bushnell told her group, known as San Antonio Collective Care, that his political views had shifted drastically not long after joining the military.
"He said that he kind of went from one extreme -- the conservative beliefs that he had grown up around -- to the opposite, forming his anarchist, anti-imperialist values," Ms. Barboza said. "And he said it was a very quick shift, and he just said it went from one extreme to the other."
Mr. Bushnell volunteered to help with the mutual aid group's internal communications and mission statement. He set up a discussion channel on Discord, a messaging app, and initiated a "constitutionalizing" effort, drawing up a list of questions for members to answer in writing.
"I would like to think that I bring to the table an open mind, a desire to help people and to learn, and a commitment to radical ideals," he wrote in one of his own responses, in February 2023.
He also wrote about being frustrated over his difficulty connecting with new people.
"While I care deeply about people, I tend to find social interactions very challenging, especially with strangers or anyone I'm not close with," he said.
But soon after leading that endeavor, he announced that he needed to take a step back from the group because he was dealing with some trauma from his past that had resurfaced, Ms. Barboza said. Still, he kept in touch with many of his friends in the group.
He told them he was looking forward to leaving the military when his enlistment was up in the spring of this year, Ms. Barboza said. On his LinkedIn profile, he wrote that he was "truly passionate about writing software and can't wait to help drive innovation in the civilian world."
Late last year, Mr. Bushnell had decided that he would move to Ohio to participate in the military's SkillBridge program, which allows members nearing the end of their service to be paid while training with or working for private companies. He made a flier asking someone to take his cat, Sugar, and sang old songs -- a Bon Jovi tune among them -- at a karaoke send-off hosted by his friends.
Friends in San Antonio said he did not share with them the nature of the past trauma that he was dealing with.
Susan Wilkins, 59, who also lived in the Community of Jesus from 1970 to 2005 before abandoning it, said she was not close with Mr. Bushnell and his family but knew them and worried that he might not have had adequate support to transition into a less-structured world.
"I can see that if you've grown up in a somewhat restrictive environment, anarchy has attractions," she said.
Ms. Schuman, like other former community members, has struggled to understand Mr. Bushnell's fatal protest.
"The extreme measures, I will never be able to get behind that," she said. "But from where we grew up, and having no say in what we really wanted or believed in, it is admirable what he did for people who don't have a voice right now."
Air Force officials have not discussed the incident in detail. When a reporter asked the Air Force's top spokesman this week whether Mr. Bushnell's protest might signify a broader discord within the ranks over civilian deaths in Gaza, he declined to directly answer.
"This certainly is a tragic event," Maj. Gen. Patrick S. Ryder said at a news conference. "We do extend our condolences to the airman's family."
Eric Schmitt contributed reporting. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Eric Schmitt contributed reporting. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph A vigil in New York on Tuesday for Aaron Bushnell, who lit himself on fire outside of the Israeli embassy in Washington on Sunday. Left, law enforcement officers guarding the embassy this week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM GRAY/REUTERS; ALLISON BAILEY/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Secondary schools; Homeless people; Diplomatic & consular services; Armed forces; Palestinian people; Demonstrations & protests; Suicides & suicide attempts

Location: West Bank; Gaza Strip; United States--US; Massachusetts; Israel

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/28/us/aaron-bushnell-israel-embassy-fire.html

Title: U.S. Airman's Winding Path Ended in Fiery Protest of War in Gaza:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 2, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2933688863

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-airmans-winding-path-ended-fiery-protest-war/docview/2933688863/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On Airports' Horizon: Facial Recognition: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chung, Christine

Publication info: Chung, Christine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-airports-horizon-facial-recognition/docview/2928355934/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Biometric technology is expanding at airports across the United States -- and the world -- and transforming the way we move through them, from checking a bag to boarding the plane.
On a recent Thursday morning in Queens, travelers streamed through the exterior doors of La Guardia Airport's Terminal C. Some were bleary-eyed -- most hefted briefcases -- as they checked bags and made their way to the security screening lines.
It was business as usual, until some approached a line that was almost empty. One by one, they walked to a kiosk with an iPad affixed to it and had their photos taken, as a security officer stood by. Within seconds, each passenger's image was matched to a photo from a government database, and the traveler was ushered past security into the deeper maze of the airport. No physical ID or boarding pass required.
Some travelers, despite previously opting into the program, still proffered identification, only for the officer to wave it away.
This passenger screening using facial recognition software and made available to select travelers at La Guardia by Delta Air Lines and the Transportation Security Administration, is just one example of how biometric technology, which uses an individual's unique physical identifiers, like their face or their fingerprints, promises to transform the way we fly.
This year could be the "tipping point" for widespread biometrics use in air travel, said Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst for Atmosphere Research. Time-consuming airport rituals like security screening, leaving your luggage at bag drop and even boarding a plane may soon only require your face, "helping to reduce waiting times and stress for travelers," Mr. Harteveldt said.
In the United States, major airlines have increasingly invested in facial recognition technology as have government agencies in charge of aviation security. Overseas, a growing number of international airports are installing biometrics-enabled electronic gates and self-service kiosks at immigration and customs.
The technology's adoption could mean enhanced security and faster processing for passengers, experts say. But it also raises concerns over privacy and ethics.
Dr. Morgan Klaus Scheuerman, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Colorado who studies the ethics of artificial intelligence and digital identity, said many questions have emerged about the use of biometrics at airports: How are the systems being trained and evaluated? Would opting out be considered a red flag? What if your documents don't match your current appearance?
"I'm sure many people feel powerless to stop the trajectory," Dr. Scheuerman said.
In the United States, bullish about the technology
The T.S.A., with more than 50,000 officers at nearly 430 airports in the United States, is the main federal agency ensuring the safety of the hundreds of millions of passengers who fly each year. Travelers who are determined to be "low-risk" can apply for T.S.A.'s PreCheck program, which offers expedited security screening at more than 200 domestic airports. PreCheck, which requires an in-person appointment to show documents and give fingerprints, and biometric verification by Clear, a private screening company, have helped to reduce the wait time for screening, but air travelers still must occasionally stand in long queues to get to their gates.
The T.S.A. has experimented with facial recognition technology since 2019. Screening verification currently offered at Denver and Los Angeles International Airports and some 30 other airports starts when a photo is taken of the traveler. Then facial recognition software is used to match the image to a physical scan of a license or passport. The photo is deleted shortly afterward, according to the agency. This process, which passengers can opt out of, will be available at some 400 more airports in the coming years, the agency said.
Melissa Conley, a T.S.A. executive director overseeing checkpoint technologies, said that biometric technology is better than human agents at matching faces rapidly and accurately.
"People are not good at matching faces. It's just known," Ms. Conley said. "Machines don't get tired."
The process still requires passengers to show their IDs. But the program being tried by Delta, called Delta Digital ID, changes that.
With Delta Digital ID, PreCheck travelers can use their faces in lieu of boarding passes and ID at both bag drop and security at La Guardia and four other airports, including John F. Kennedy International Airport and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.
Facial recognition shaves more than a minute off bag drop, to roughly 30 seconds, and reduces the security interaction from 25 seconds to about 10 seconds, said Greg Forbes, Delta's managing director of airport experience. While a "simple change," the time savings add up, making the line noticeably faster, Mr. Forbes added.
"Anywhere that there's PreCheck, I think, could benefit from Digital ID," Mr. Forbes said.
Other airlines have begun similar experiments for PreCheck travelers: Those flying on American Airlines can use their faces to get through PreCheck screening at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and also to enter the airline's lounge at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. United Airlines allows PreCheck travelers to use their faces at bag drop counters at Chicago O'Hare International Airport; the airline is scheduled to bring this program to Los Angeles International Airport in March.
And Alaska Airlines plans to spend $ 2.5 billion over the next three years in upgrades, including new bag drop machines, in Seattle, Portland, Ore., San Francisco, Los Angeles and Anchorage. A machine will scan the traveler's ID, match it to a photo, and then scan the printed bag tags. The new system, designed to move guests through the bag tagging and dropping process in less than five minutes (compared to around eight minutes now), will be in Portland in May.
Charu Jain, the airline's senior vice president of innovation and merchandising, said that it felt like the right moment for Alaska because of improved technology and increasing passenger familiarity with facial recognition.
At the borders
The fastest growing use of facial recognition software at U.S. airports so far has been in security measures for entering and exiting the United States.
The growth stems from a 2001 congressional mandate, in the wake of 9/11, requiring the implementation of a system that would allow all travelers arriving and departing the United States to be identified using biometric technology.
Overseen by the Customs and Border Protection agency, the biometric system for those entering the United States is in place, and scanned 113 million entries at airports last year. For those leaving the country, the system is available at 49 airports, with the C.B.P. aiming to cover all airports with international departures by 2026.
Biometric entry is mandatory for foreign nationals. But biometric exit is currently optional for these travelers, while C.B.P. is making the system fully operational. At any border, the biometric process is optional for U.S. citizens, who can instead request a manual ID check.
Diane Sabatino, acting executive assistant commissioner for field operations at C.B.P., said that the system aims to improve security, but she acknowledged rising privacy concerns. Images of American citizens taken during the process are deleted within 12 hours, she said, but photos of foreign nationals are stored for up to 75 years.
"We are not scanning the crowd looking for people," she said. "It's certainly a privacy issue. We are never going to ask them to sacrifice privacy for convenience."
Miami International Airport, the second busiest airport in the United States for international passengers last year, has one of the "largest deployments" of biometrics in the country, airport executives say. In a partnership with SITA, a global information technology provider for the air transport industry, the airport has installed the technology for departing passengers at 74 out of 134 gates and plans to cover the remaining gates by the end of this year, said Maurice Jenkins, chief innovation officer at Miami-Dade Aviation Department.
The contract with SITA costs $ 9 million, but Mr. Jenkins said that the new technology was increasing efficiency in the rest of the airport's operations, such as fewer gate agents checking documents.
Document-free travel overseas
Experts believe the future of air travel is one where facial recognition will be used throughout the entire airport journey: bag drop, boarding, even entering lounges and purchasing items at retail stores within the airport. It may be so streamlined that security checkpoints could be eliminated, replaced instead by security "tunnels" that passengers walk through and have their identity confirmed simultaneously.
"This is the future," said Dr. Sheldon Jacobson, a computer science professor at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign who researches aviation security.
According to a recent report by SITA, in which 292 airlines and 382 airports around the world were surveyed, 70 percent of global airlines are expected to use some sort of biometric identification by 2026 and 90 percent of airports are currently investing in the technology.
More comprehensive experimentation has already landed at some airports abroad. Later this year, Singapore's Changi Airport intends to go passport-free for departures; all passengers, regardless of nationality, will be able use this system. At Frankfurt Airport in Germany, passengers can now use their faces from the time they check-in to boarding. The airport is installing biometric technology throughout its two terminals and making it available to all airlines.
In China, 74 airports -- 86 percent of the country's international airports -- have biometric technology in place, according to a report released last month by the global market research company Euromonitor and the U.S. Travel Association. At Beijing Capital International Airport, the country's busiest airport, travelers can use facial recognition throughout their entire journey, even to pay for items at duty-free shops.
But in the United States, according to the report, only about 36 percent of international airports have some biometric capabilities.
There are several reasons for the country's lagging adoption, said Kevin McAleenan, the former acting secretary for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and currently chief executive of Pangiam, a travel technology company. Simply, the United States has many airports and the immigration exit process here is different from other places.
At many airports overseas, the government controls immigration for departing travelers, allowing these airports to have a government-established biometric system.
In the United States, airlines, using C.B.P. passenger data, confirm the identities of travelers leaving the country.
Concerns over government surveillance
Biometrics use has already seeped into daily life. People unlock their phones with their faces. Shoppers can pay for groceries with their palms at Whole Foods.
But critics believe that the technology's convenience fails to outweigh a high potential for abuse -- from unfettered surveillance to unintended effects like perpetuating racial and gender discrimination.
Cody Venzke, senior policy counsel on privacy and technology at the American Civil Liberties Union, said the government had not yet shown a demonstrated need for facial recognition technology at airports and worried about a "nuclear scenario."
"Facial recognition technology," he said, could be "the foundation for a really robust and widespread government surveillance and tracking network."
"That technology might be able to be used to track you automatically and surreptitiously, from place to place, as you go about your day, and create a really detailed mosaic about everything about your life," Mr. Venzke said.
The A.C.L.U. supports a congressional bill, introduced last November, called the Traveler Privacy Protection Act. Listing concerns over security and racial discrimination, the bill would halt the T.S.A.'s ongoing facial recognition program, and require congressional authorization for the agency to resume it.
Ms. Conley, of the T.S.A., said that a stop in the agency's biometrics efforts would "take us back years."
For some travelers, facial recognition has already become a reliable tool. At J.F.K. on a recent afternoon, Brad Mossholder, 45, used Delta's Digital ID line to breeze through the security screening at Terminal 4 and bypass a dozen travelers in the adjacent PreCheck lane.
He was flying from his home in New York to San Diego for his job in corporate retail, and as a frequent business traveler, has used facial recognition several times. The process is faster and easier overall, Mr. Mossholder said, and he wasn't worried about privacy.
"Honestly, my photo is on LinkedIn, it's on a million social media sites," he said. "If you really wanted to see a picture of me, you could."
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2024 .
Photograph At La Guardia Airport, Delta offered a security line for the new Digital ID program, top. A passenger used facial recognition technology to board a flight from Miami to Munich, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTINE CHUNG/THE NEW YORK TIMES; MIAMI-DADE AVIATION DEPARTMENT) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Luggage; Noncitizens; Airline security; Software; Air travel; Facial recognition technology; Privacy; Passenger screening

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US; Alaska

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/18/travel/facial-recognition-airports-biometrics.html

Title: On Airports' Horizon: Facial Recognition:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 19, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2928355934

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-airports-horizon-facial-recognition/docview/2928355934/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Facial Recognition: Coming Soon to an Airport Near You

Author: Chung, Christine

Publication info: Chung, Christine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/facial-recognition-coming-soon-airport-near-you/docview/2928053409/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
On a recent Thursday morning in Queens, travelers streamed through the exterior doors of La Guardia Airport’s Terminal C. Some were bleary-eyed — most hefted briefcases — as they checked bags and made their way to the security screening lines.
It was business as usual, until some approached a line that was almost empty. One by one, they walked to a kiosk with an iPad affixed to it and had their photos taken, as a security officer stood by. Within seconds, each passenger’s image was matched to a photo from a government database, and the traveler was ushered past security into the deeper maze of the airport. No physical ID or boarding pass required.
Some travelers, despite previously opting into the program, still proffered identification, only for the officer to wave it away.
This passenger screening using facial recognition software and made available to select travelers at La Guardia by Delta Air Lines and the Transportation Security Administration, is just one example of how biometric technology, which uses an individual’s unique physical identifiers, like their face or their fingerprints, promises to transform the way we fly.
This year could be the “tipping point” for widespread biometrics use in air travel, said Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst for Atmosphere Research. Time-consuming airport rituals like security screening, leaving your luggage at bag drop and even boarding a plane may soon only require your face, “helping to reduce waiting times and stress for travelers,” Harteveldt said.
In the United States, major airlines have increasingly invested in facial recognition technology as have government agencies in charge of aviation security. Overseas, a growing number of international airports are installing biometrics-enabled electronic gates and self-service kiosks at immigration and customs.
The technology’s adoption could mean enhanced security and faster processing for passengers, experts say. But it also raises concerns over privacy and ethics.
Dr. Morgan Klaus Scheuerman, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Colorado who studies the ethics of artificial intelligence and digital identity, said many questions have emerged about the use of biometrics at airports: How are the systems being trained and evaluated? Would opting out be considered a red flag? What if your documents don’t match your current appearance?
“I’m sure many people feel powerless to stop the trajectory,” Scheuerman said.
In the U.S., Bullish About the Technology
The TSA, with more than 50,000 officers at nearly 430 airports in the United States, is the main federal agency ensuring the safety of the hundreds of millions of passengers who fly each year. Travelers who are determined to be “low-risk” can apply for TSA’s PreCheck program, which offers expedited security screening at more than 200 domestic airports. PreCheck, which requires an in-person appointment to show documents and give fingerprints, and biometric verification by Clear, a private screening company, have helped to reduce the wait time for screening, but air travelers still must occasionally stand in long queues to get to their gates.
The TSA has experimented with facial recognition technology since 2019. Screening verification currently offered at Denver and Los Angeles International Airports and some 30 other airports starts when a photo is taken of the traveler. Then facial recognition software is used to match the image to a physical scan of a license or passport. The photo is deleted shortly afterward, according to the agency. This process, which passengers can opt out of, will be available at some 400 more airports in the coming years, the agency said.
Melissa Conley, a TSA executive director overseeing checkpoint technologies, said biometric technology is better than human agents at matching faces rapidly and accurately.
“People are not good at matching faces. It’s just known,” Conley said. “Machines don’t get tired.”
The process still requires passengers to show their IDs. But the program being tried by Delta, called Delta Digital ID, changes that.
With Delta Digital ID, PreCheck travelers can use their faces in lieu of boarding passes and ID at both bag drop and security at La Guardia and four other airports, including John F. Kennedy International Airport, also in New York City’s Queens borough, and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.
Facial recognition shaves more than a minute off bag drop, to roughly 30 seconds, and reduces the security interaction from 25 seconds to about 10 seconds, said Greg Forbes, Delta’s managing director of airport experience. While a “simple change,” the time savings add up, making the line noticeably faster, Forbes added.
“Anywhere that there’s PreCheck, I think, could benefit from Digital ID,” Forbes said.
Other airlines have begun similar experiments for PreCheck travelers: Those flying on American Airlines can use their faces to get through PreCheck screening at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and also to enter the airline’s lounge at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. United Airlines allows PreCheck travelers to use their faces at bag drop counters at Chicago O’Hare International Airport; the airline is scheduled to bring this program to Los Angeles International Airport in March.
And Alaska Airlines plans to spend $2.5 billion over the next three years in upgrades, including new bag drop machines, in Seattle, Portland, Oregon, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Anchorage, Alaska. A machine will scan the traveler’s ID, match it to a photo, and then scan the printed bag tags. The new system, designed to move guests through the bag tagging and dropping process in less than five minutes (compared to around eight minutes now), will be in Portland in May.
Charu Jain, the airline’s senior vice president of innovation and merchandising, said that it felt like the right moment for Alaska because of improved technology and increasing passenger familiarity with facial recognition.
At the Borders
The fastest growing use of facial recognition software at U.S. airports so far has been in security measures for entering and exiting the United States.
The growth stems from a 2001 congressional mandate, in the wake of 9/11, requiring the implementation of a system that would allow all travelers arriving and departing the United States to be identified using biometric technology.
Overseen by the Customs and Border Protection agency, the biometric system for those entering the United States is in place, and scanned 113 million entries at airports last year. For those leaving the country, the system is available at 49 airports, with the CBP aiming to cover all airports with international departures by 2026.
Biometric entry is mandatory for foreign nationals. But biometric exit is currently optional for these travelers, while CBP is making the system fully operational. At any border, the biometric process is optional for U.S. citizens, who can instead request a manual ID check.
Diane Sabatino, acting executive assistant commissioner for field operations at CBP, said that the system aims to improve security, but she acknowledged rising privacy concerns. Images of U.S. citizens taken during the process are deleted within 12 hours, she said, but photos of foreign nationals are stored for up to 75 years.
“We are not scanning the crowd looking for people,” she said. “It’s certainly a privacy issue. We are never going to ask them to sacrifice privacy for convenience.”
Miami International Airport, the second busiest airport in the U.S. for international passengers last year, has one of the “largest deployments” of biometrics in the country, airport executives say. In a partnership with SITA, a global information technology provider for the air transport industry, the airport has installed the technology for departing passengers at 74 out of 134 gates and plans to cover the remaining gates by the end of this year, said Maurice Jenkins, chief innovation officer at Miami-Dade Aviation Department.
The contract with SITA costs $9 million, but Jenkins said the new technology was increasing efficiency in the rest of the airport’s operations, such as fewer gate agents checking documents.
Document-Free Travel Overseas
Experts believe the future of air travel is one where facial recognition will be used throughout the entire airport journey: bag drop, boarding, even entering lounges and purchasing items at retail stores within the airport. It may be so streamlined that security checkpoints could be eliminated, replaced instead by security “tunnels” that passengers walk through and have their identity confirmed simultaneously.
“This is the future,” said Dr. Sheldon Jacobson, a computer science professor at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign who researches aviation security.
According to a recent report by SITA, in which 292 airlines and 382 airports around the world were surveyed, 70% of global airlines are expected to use some sort of biometric identification by 2026 and 90% of airports are currently investing in the technology.
More comprehensive experimentation has already landed at some airports abroad. Later this year, Singapore’s Changi Airport intends to go passport-free for departures; all passengers, regardless of nationality, will be able use this system. At Frankfurt Airport in Germany, passengers can now use their faces from the time they check-in to boarding. The airport is installing biometric technology throughout its two terminals and making it available to all airlines.
In China, 74 airports — 86% of the country’s international airports — have biometric technology in place, according to a report released last month by the global market research company Euromonitor and the U.S. Travel Association. At Beijing Capital International Airport, the country’s busiest airport, travelers can use facial recognition throughout their entire journey, even to pay for items at duty-free shops.
But in the United States, according to the report, only about 36% of international airports have some biometric capabilities.
There are several reasons for the country’s lagging adoption, said Kevin McAleenan, the former acting secretary for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and currently CEO of Pangiam, a travel technology company. Simply, the United States has many airports and the immigration exit process here is different from other places.
At many airports overseas, the government controls immigration for departing travelers, allowing these airports to have a government-established biometric system.
In the United States, airlines, using CBP passenger data, confirm the identities of travelers leaving the country.
Concerns Over Government Surveillance
Biometrics use has already seeped into daily life. People unlock their phones with their faces. Shoppers can pay for groceries with their palms at Whole Foods.
But critics believe that the technology’s convenience fails to outweigh a high potential for abuse — from unfettered surveillance to unintended effects like perpetuating racial and gender discrimination.
Cody Venzke, senior policy counsel on privacy and technology at the American Civil Liberties Union, said the government had not yet shown a demonstrated need for facial recognition technology at airports and worried about a “nuclear scenario.”
“Facial recognition technology,” he said, could be “the foundation for a really robust and widespread government surveillance and tracking network.”
“That technology might be able to be used to track you automatically and surreptitiously, from place to place, as you go about your day, and create a really detailed mosaic about everything about your life,” Venzke said.
The ACLU supports a congressional bill, introduced last November, called the Traveler Privacy Protection Act. Listing concerns over security and racial discrimination, the bill would halt the TSA’s ongoing facial recognition program, and require congressional authorization for the agency to resume it.
Conley, of the TSA, said a stop in the agency’s biometrics efforts would “take us back years.”
For some travelers, facial recognition has already become a reliable tool. At JFK on a recent afternoon, Brad Mossholder, 45, used Delta’s Digital ID line to breeze through the security screening at Terminal 4 and bypass a dozen travelers in the adjacent PreCheck lane.
He was flying from his home in New York to San Diego for his job in corporate retail, and as a frequent business traveler, has used facial recognition several times. The process is faster and easier overall, Mossholder said, and he wasn’t worried about privacy.
“Honestly, my photo is on LinkedIn, it’s on a million social media sites,” he said. “If you really wanted to see a picture of me, you could.”

This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Noncitizens; Luggage; Software; Airline security; Air travel; Privacy; Facial recognition technology; Passenger screening

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US; Alaska

Identifier / keyword: Anchorage (Alaska); Facial Recognition Software; Secure Identity Llc (Clear); Travel And Vacations; Singapore; Immigration And Emigration; Alclear Llc (Clear); Whole Foods Market Inc; Privacy; Dallas Fort Worth International Airport; Frankfurt (Germany); University Of Colorado; Stations And Terminals (Passenger); Oregon; Passports; United States; Miami International Airport; Identification Devices; Washington (State); Linkedin Corporation; American Civil Liberties Union; Forbes Magazine; Fort Worth (Tex); Illinois; Seattle (Wash); Kennedy International Airport (Queens, Ny); Airports; Frankfurt Airport; Laguardia Airport (Queens, Ny); Innovation; Travel; Germany; Biometrics; Airport Security; Mcaleenan, Kevin K; Customs And Border Protection (Us); Discrimination; Research; Sita Group; Alaska Airlines; Computers And The Internet; Face; Luggage And Packing; Los Angeles (Calif); Surveillance Of Citizens By Government; Law And Legislation; Transportation Security Administration; Changi Airport; Homeland Security Department; Atlanta (Ga); Alaska; United Airlines; San Francisco (Calif); Delta Air Lines Inc; Portland (Ore); Hartsfield Jackson Atlanta International Airport (Atlanta, Ga); Computer Vision; American Airlines; United States International Relations; Colorado; Queens (Nyc); Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Los Angeles International Airport; Kennedy, John Fitzgerald; University Of Illinois, Urbana Champaign; Washington (Dc); Airlines And Airplanes; Chicago (Ill); Computer Monitors; Beijing Capital International Airport; United States Travel Assn

Title: Facial Recognition: Coming Soon to an Airport Near You

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 18, 2024

Dateline: 2024-02-18T21:10:29Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2928053409

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/facial-recognition-coming-soon-airport-near-you/docview/2928053409/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Left-vs.-Left House Fight in St. Louis, Funded by a Split Over Israel: [National Desk]

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/left-vs-house-fight-st-louis-funded-split-over/docview/2925780456/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Wesley Bell, a leader in the progressive prosecutors movement, will take on Representative Cori Bush of Missouri, in St. Louis.
The St. Louis County prosecutor challenging Representative Cori Bush for her House seat in Missouri began his day Thursday being interviewed by a prominent Black radio personality in St. Louis.
The prosecutor, Wesley Bell, then went on to lecture a sociology class at St. Louis Community College, where he once taught criminal justice, and had lunch at a soul food restaurant in Ferguson, peaceful now nearly a decade after protests there practically created the Black Lives Matter movement.
He met that afternoon with laborers' unions, stopped by a Vietnamese community celebration of the Lunar New Year, and ended well into the night at the North County Democrats Club, in suburban Hazelwood.
"If you call me, I'm going to pick up," Mr. Bell, 49, assured members of the Laborers' International Union of North America, whose leaders once endorsed Ms. Bush and now back her challenger, Mr. Bell. "And if you want me to show up, I'm going to show up."
Driven by the passions surrounding the massacre of Israelis on Oct. 7 and the ensuing war in Gaza, pro-Israel groups are financing a slew of primary challenges in heavily Democratic districts, aimed at unseating outspoken critics of Israel on the political left.
The deadly war has divided centrist Democrats from progressives like Ms. Bush, who has condemned Israel for its response, seeking to hold up aid while pressing for a cease-fire as the death toll in Gaza has mounted. Late last month, Ms. Bush and the House's only Palestinian American, Rashida Tlaib, were the lone opponents of a resolution to bar Hamas members and those who participated in the attacks against Israel on Oct. 7 from the United States.
But unlike many of the primary contests fueled by various groups -- like the American Israel Public Affairs Committee; its political affiliate, the United Democracy Project; and the independent Democratic Majority for Israel -- the Bush vs. Bell battle in Missouri's First District pits progressive against progressive, each with a considerable record to run on that has little to do with Israel.
And though driven by money from pro-Israel groups and firm Israel critics, the fight over Missouri's deep blue First District is likely to hardly mention the Middle East. Instead, it will be a battle over representation, and what that should look like for troubled St. Louis.
"I'm being targeted by AIPAC because not only do I believe Palestinians deserve to live freely and peacefully just like Israelis, but because I want to protect our democracy from Republican extremism," Ms. Bush said Monday. "I want to codify abortion rights, I want to pass meaningful gun violence prevention legislation, and I want to raise taxes on billionaires -- all things AIPAC, their G.O.P. donors, and the insurrectionists they endorse, oppose."
Ms. Bush is an icon of the left, an activist from the streets of the Ferguson protests who took her voice to the halls of Congress. But Mr. Bell was on those streets as well, mediating between the demonstrators and the police, and then being elected to the Ferguson City Council.
He is a key figure in the progressive prosecutors movement, having spent nearly a decade trying to steer low-level offenders from incarceration to mental health and drug treatment programs, to free the wrongfully convicted from St. Louis prisons, and to increase scrutiny of official misconduct in law enforcement and public prosecution.
The primary is expected to draw national attention because of broader discussion of Israel and how much the Democratic Party is willing to accept the Jewish state's harshest critics, such as Ms. Bush. But in the city of St. Louis and the surrounding county that shares its name, the race may revolve around the limits of activism and personality in a region sorely in need of tangible help.
Ms. Bush enters the race as a lightning rod. Her pro-Palestinian activism has made her a singular focus of pro-Israel groups. She has acknowledged a federal criminal investigation into the use of campaign funds to pay her husband for security work. And her outsize personality has rubbed some in Democratic leadership the wrong way.
But to Mr. Bell and his supporters, her infractions are more local. First and foremost, she voted against the bipartisan infrastructure bill, a slap to the unions that had backed her. Worse still, she never met with them to explain her vote, said Clinton McBride, the government affairs director of the Laborers' International Local 110.
"Communication is nice," he said. "It says a lot when there isn't any."
Ms. Bush denied that she had left unions in the dark, contending that her team was in touch before, during and after the vote.
There are plenty of voters in St. Louis who love Ms. Bush's in-your-face style of activism, and lament having to choose between two progressives. Ken Hughes, a retired member of the laborers' Local 42, recalled how in 2021 Ms. Bush camped out on the steps of the Capitol in an orange sleeping bag and a lawn chair, a vigil that forced the extension of a pandemic-era moratorium on evictions.
"She's a fighter for the people, and I like that," said Mr. Hughes, 60, who has not decided how he will vote in the Aug. 6 primary.
His friend, Greg Lomax, 54, had been undecided at the beginning of Thursday's labor meeting. But then, he said, "I just learned today that she voted against the infrastructure bill."
Mr. Lomax spoke approvingly of her convictions, adding with a tone of frustration, "but she's so, you know, resistant."
Megan Green, president of the St. Louis City board of aldermen, said that Ms. Bush has been attuned to the city's needs. Ms. Bush, she said, has secured nearly $ 2 billion for St. Louis community health care facilities, public schools and nonprofits.
"For those of us who live here, when Cori says your congresswoman loves you, our community feels it," Ms. Green said.
Pro-Israel groups have yet to formally intervene in the primary race, but an AIPAC official said Monday that the group has endorsed Mr. Bell. Other organizations are expected to endorse Mr. Bell soon. At the same time, the fund-raising of those groups since Hamas's Oct. 7 attack on Israel and the resulting war in Gaza has been staggering.
The United Democracy Project announced receipts of more than $ 44 million by the end of 2023, with almost $ 41 million still in its war chest. Among its contributors were well-known pro-Trump Republicans, such as Bernard Marcus, the co-founder of Home Depot, who gave the political action committee $ 1 million.
The Democratic Majority for Israel has $ 1.7 million more to spend at year's end.
Those groups are targeting a number of incumbent Democrats this cycle, including Representatives Summer Lee in Pittsburgh, Ilhan Omar in Minneapolis, Jamaal Bowman in New York and Ms. Tlaib in Detroit.
"Beating an incumbent member of Congress is the hardest thing in politics; that's just a statistical fact, and she is not an unpopular politician," said Mark Mellman, a veteran Democratic operative and the founder of the Democratic Majority for Israel PAC.
But, he added, "She can be beaten."
Marcy and Richard Cornfeld, the co-chairmen of the St. Louis AIPAC Council, have already given Mr. Bell the maximum, as has the financier Tony Davis. Timothy Drury, a scion of a Republican hotelier family, has maxed out his contributions to Mr. Bell. So has Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn founder and Democratic megadonor.
It is telling that Mr. Bell considered a run for the Senate against Missouri's senior senator, the Republican Josh Hawley, only to reconsider, said Usamah Andrabi, a spokesman for Justice Democrats, the left-wing political action committee that backed Ms. Bush's rise and will back her again this year.
"Wesley Bell went from running against Josh Hawley, an actual right-wing insurrectionist, to taking thousands of dollars from the donors of Josh Hawley, Donald Trump and almost the entire Missouri Republican delegation to run against Missouri's first Black congresswoman," he said.
To Ms. Bush and liberal activists, locally and nationally, such contributors are disqualifying to a candidate who insists he is the progressive champion of local issues.
"I don't see Wesley Bell as a progressive," said Hannah Rosenthal, co-founder of Progressive Jews of St. Louis and a Bush ally. "His allegiance with AIPAC supporters is a prime example."
Ohun Ashe, an activist who met Ms. Bush during the 2014 street protests in Ferguson after the killing of Michael Brown, said the impending intervention of national pro-Israel groups was part of a pattern of posturing for Mr. Bell.
Mr. Bell helped mediate between protesters and Ferguson police during the unrest, and then in 2018, he beat the longtime incumbent county prosecutor, Robert McCulloch, on a promise to reopen the case against the police officer who shot Mr. Brown, Darren Wilson.
He kept that pledge, and then in 2020 said he could not build a sufficient case against the officer, the same conclusion reached by his predecessor and the Department of Justice.
Even supporters of Mr. Bell say the sting lingers.
"Some of the people who put him into office as prosecutor might not be supporting him against Cori Bush," said Ferguson's current and first Black mayor, Ella Jones, who does back him. "They're still upset."
Mr. Bell, in an interview said it was pretty rich for Ms. Bush and her supporters to question a primary challenge backed by outside money, since Ms. Bush did just that in 2020, defeating a 10-term incumbent, William Lacy Clay Jr., whose family name was practically synonymous with Missouri's first district.
Mr. Bell readily offers up views appealing to pro-Israel donors, saying Israel has a right to self-defense, and castigating Ms. Bush for some of her votes, especially her opposition to U.S. investments in Israel's Iron Dome missile defense system, which he calls critical to stopping a wider war in the Middle East.
But his campaign centers on his record: 2,200 low-level, nonviolent defendants diverted to health care, job-training and mentoring programs, with a recidivism rate of 5.9 percent; the establishment of a unit to investigate credible allegations of wrongful imprisonment and official misconduct; and an end to death penalty prosecutions in the county -- all pursued amid a national backlash against such efforts.
"That's a big deal in Missouri," said Jessica Brand, founder of the Wren Collective, which presses for a less punitive approach to prosecution. "Being committed to that movement over the long term is hard because they come for you."
Photograph Wesley Bell met with members of the Laborers' Local 42 at the union's office in St. Louis last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEETA SATAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Representative Cori Bush, flanked by military veterans, called for a cease-fire in Gaza in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Political activism; Progressivism; Personality; Political parties; Political campaigns; Official misconduct; Political action committees--PAC; Manual workers; Demonstrations & protests; Scandals; Democracy; Congressional elections; Truces & cease fires; Military aid

Business indexing term: Subject: Manual workers

Location: United States--US; Israel; Missouri; Gaza Strip

People: Bell, Wesley; Bush, Cori

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/12/us/politics/cori-bush-aipac.html

Title: A Left-vs.-Left House Fight in St. Louis, Funded by a Split Over Israel:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 14, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2925780456

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/left-vs-house-fight-st-louis-funded-split-over/docview/2925780456/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

With Properties in the City, He's All About the Big Deals: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Haag, Matthew

Publication info: Haag, Matthew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-properties-city-hes-all-about-big-deals/docview/2924600487/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The best view of New York City might just be in a near-windowless conference room on the 12th floor of a Midtown Manhattan office building.
Splayed across 10 folding tables, a map pieced together with paper, tape and sticky notes details every block and parcel -- 27,649 properties -- in Manhattan below 96th Street on the East Side and 110th Street on the West Side.
The map is the work of Bob Knakal, who created it by walking every avenue and street during the desolate early months of the pandemic.
Updated regularly, the lots are color-coded with highlighters and sticky notes to show which are for sale (green sticky notes), were recently sold (red sticky notes), are owned by the city (pink highlights) or are under construction (green highlights). Orange highlights means a lot is underutilized -- and there is a possible deal to be made.
For four decades, Mr. Knakal has used his obsession with data and creative marketing techniques to achieve rarefied status in the cutthroat world of New York City real estate. He is widely considered by industry professionals to be the top commercial sales broker by number of transactions in the largest commercial market in the country.
"It's not really the real estate business, it is the information business," said Mr. Knakal, 61, during a recent tour of what he calls the Map Room, where his cartographic creation lives.
Since 1984, when he first started in Manhattan, Mr. Knakal has sold 2,329 properties -- offices, town homes, garages, apartment buildings and warehouses -- totaling $ 22 billion. His largest transaction was the nearly $ 700 million sale in 2016 of several properties in Brooklyn owned by the Jehovah's Witnesses, including the Watchtower Building in Brooklyn Heights.
Increasingly, he has been involved in major deals shaping New York's skyline, including the 2014 sale of a parking lot on Manhattan's West Side for $ 238 million that is now the Spiral office tower, one of the tallest buildings in the city.
The sales have not only generated significant wealth for Mr. Knakal, but have also given him access to elected officials.
The city, and especially Manhattan, has become more and more unaffordable for ordinary people, a message Mr. Knakal has emphasized to lawmakers.
He says he cares about affordable housing because creating more of it is vital to the city's future, though he also acknowledges that more deals for properties and development could benefit himself.
Over a private lunch in Midtown, he urged Gov. Kathy Hochul to do more to encourage the conversions of office buildings into housing. He also recently bent the ear of Mayor Eric Adams.
The city, he told the mayor, owns numerous properties that are underutilized and could be redeveloped. He specifically called out public housing developments, which he says could be preserved while constructing new affordable and private housing nearby on the same lots.
"You look at these giant tracts of land that public housing sits on where a thousand people live that produces zero taxes," he said. "There is opportunity to have 10,000 people live on that land, have part of it be tax-generating and create tens of thousands of jobs without displacing anybody."
Some progressive lawmakers and academics blame the affordability crisis on developers and brokers like Mr. Knakal, whose goal is to secure the highest bid for property owners. They argue that ever-increasing sales prices encourage investors to develop projects that can generate larger profits, often resulting in more luxury condominiums.
"A job of the broker is to surround yourself with people in power to get yourself better deals, so the closer you get to the circle of power and money, the better deals you can broker and money you can make," said Miguel Robles-Duran, an associate professor of urbanism at the New School's Parsons School of Design.
State Senator Jabari Brisport, a democratic socialist from Brooklyn, said that Mr. Knakal should not have a say in the creation of affordable housing.
"He is an example of everything that is wrong with our housing crisis right now, which is that we have allowed housing to be treated as an investment, as a financial commodity, instead of a guaranteed right," Mr. Brisport said.
"This is a person who has gotten very wealthy off the backs of New Yorkers looking for a place to live," Mr. Brisport said, adding that Mr. Knakal has used his earnings "to buy political favors from the rich and powerful."
Mr. Knakal said in response that policies implemented by New York lawmakers in recent years have significantly stalled the construction of new residences and worsened the housing crisis. They have also made developers feel under attack, leading them to start investing elsewhere, like in the South.
"There is a very big philosophical difference if you believe housing is an entitlement than if you think housing is a business," Mr. Knakal said. "That is way beyond the scope of a real estate broker to figure out, but I don't think anyone can argue against that if you added more supply, rents would be more affordable for people."
Mr. Knakal starts every Monday with a legal pad featuring a handwritten list of several dozen property owners to call. It's a mix of current clients trying to sell, property owners who aren't yet ready and past clients; some are cold-calls.
He makes the calls himself, and follows up with emails until he gets the owners on the phone.
In a city swarming with brokers, the calls keep his name top of mind, Mr. Knakal said. He stresses to potential clients his long history of only representing sellers, saying that it shows his loyalty.
"Hire me, I've got your back, I'm in your corner because I've seen it all, done it all, and I can protect you," Mr. Knakal said, describing his pitch. "That's something that other folks cannot say because they don't have that same track record."
That determined strategy is how he landed the real estate mogul Harry B. Macklowe.
Mr. Knakal cold-called Mr. Macklowe for more than two years about a one-story retail building before he finally got Mr. Macklowe to answer, ringing him late one night in hopes of circumventing his assistant.
It was the start of a long-running business relationship that has so far resulted in more than $ 350 million in sales, including that first property, on East 60th Street. Mr. Macklowe eventually hired him to sell it -- nearly two decades after their first phone call -- in 2005 for $ 11.75 million. The building was redeveloped into 42 affordable-housing units.
At his offices, Mr. Knakal is surrounded by numbers on printed spreadsheets, in hard-bound books detailing his deals, and on his computer. He tracks almost everything and rattles off statistics like he is reading the back of a baseball card.
In fact, his oversized business card resembles a baseball card, with a photo of him holding a baseball glove on the front and his annual sales numbers on the back.
He even tracks his own performance.
In what percentage of calls to former clients does he hear about another property owner who might be in the market to sell? Nine percent.
What percentage of prospective clients hire him after a pitch meeting? About 26 percent.
What percentage of prospective clients who have visited the Map Room for the pitch meeting hire him? One hundred percent.
Over the years, he said, his sales figures have mirrored the peaks and valleys of the economy. Property sales have declined recently, but not as much as they did during the savings and loan crisis of the early 1990s.
In the first year of the pandemic, Mr. Knakal sold just seven properties, his lowest in three decades. While sales improved in 2022, they have declined since then, driven by a steep and steady drop-off in major deals over $ 10 million across the city.
Rising interest rates have contributed to a decline in building values, he said, spooking owners into holding onto properties.
Mr. Knakal said most owners selling today have no choice, driven to sell because of divorce, disputes or death.
"When you have the circumstance where something exerts downward pressure on value, people don't sell," he said. "The fourth quarter numbers are going to be terrible."
During the week, Mr. Knakal splits his time between his office at the Madison Avenue headquarters of JLL, the real estate firm where he works, and another building in Midtown where he leased space just for his map.
Mr. Knakal frequently gives tours of the Map Room and often refers to the map when developers call, sometimes using a magnifying glass to zero in on a neighborhood.
On a recent morning, he guided two executives from Rockefeller Group, a real estate firm, who were looking for a housing opportunity in Manhattan.
They scanned the map for potential sites. There is nothing for sale on the Upper West Side, Mr. Knakal remarked. Reaching over Central Park with a telescopic pointer, he indicated the lack of green sticky notes in that neighborhood.
Pulling the pointer back toward himself, he directed the developers to several available properties on the Upper East Side and in Lower Manhattan. None were the right fit at the moment -- either too small or too expensive, they told him.
One of the developers, Meg Brod, a senior managing director at Rockefeller Group, said that other commercial brokers could say what was for sale in the city. But none could match Mr. Knakal's insight and knowledge about trends, neighborhoods and opportunities.
"You want to work with a broker who is on the bleeding edge of what's coming to the market," Ms. Brod said. "We want to be one of the first to hear about it."
Around 6 p.m., Mr. Knakal usually attends an event or get-together, part of his goal of attending 261 networking functions each year, one for every workday. He rarely declines an offer to speak at conferences or appear on a podcast, no matter how small the audience.
In the past year, he has embraced another kind of networking. He hired a social media manager to teach him how to post on LinkedIn and X, and has quickly gained a large following by sharing stories about past deals and poking fun at himself.
He has no plans to slow down or retire anytime soon. "I don't run out of energy," he said.
Photograph Bob Knakal at his Midtown office. Since 1984, when he first started in Manhattan, he has sold 2,329 properties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1); Top, the so-called Map Room of Bob Knakal's office. Center from left: notes in the room; the Watchtower Building in Brooklyn Heights. Mr. Knakal, above, is not alone in saying that the city has become less affordable for ordinary people. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDWARD CARUSO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) This article appeared in print on page MB1, MB9.

Subject: Public housing; Baseball; Sales; Trading cards; Affordable housing; Legislators; Pandemics; Corporate headquarters

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales Affordable housing Corporate headquarters

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/08/nyregion/ny-real-estate-bob-knakal.html

Title: With Properties in the City, He's All About the Big Deals:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 11, 2024

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2924600487

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-properties-city-hes-all-about-big-deals/docview/2924600487/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Advertising Enlists A.I. On Old Trick: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/advertising-enlists-i-on-old-trick/docview/2923201860/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Realistic-looking shampoo bottles and seltzer cans are popping up on videos from digital creators on TikTok and YouTube in a new form of old advertising.
Product placement, one of the oldest tricks in advertisers' toolbox, is getting an A.I. makeover.
New technology has made it easier to insert digital, realistic-looking versions of soda cans and shampoo onto the tables and walls of videos on YouTube and TikTok. And a growing group of creators and advertisers is grabbing at the chance for an additional revenue stream.
A recent TikTok from the dancer Melissa Becraft featured a poster for Bubly, the sparkling-water brand owned by PepsiCo, hanging on the wall of her apartment as she shimmied to a Shakira song. A duo known as HiveMind chatted about bands while an animated can of Starry soda, another brand owned by PepsiCo, landed on a table between them. And a YouTube video of the "AsianBossGirl" podcast recently displayed a table of Garnier hair products.
Virtual product placements have been offered by start-ups and streaming services like Amazon Prime and NBC's Peacock in recent years. But a recent wave of them on social media, in which brief, animated messages disclosing the sponsorships appear on the videos themselves, is the work of a start-up called Rembrand.
The ads provide a glimpse into one way A.I. might shape advertising in the future, especially as marketers look to reach younger viewers who are apt to skip or ignore standard ads.
Rembrand's executives say their technology could transform product placements, which have often been used to cut production costs on bigger projects and can take weeks, months or sometimes years to negotiate.
For creators, it's a way to make money from advertisers without physically handling products or discussing them.
"This feels like I'm making my own genuine content, but it doesn't scream that I'm making an ad," said Ms. Becraft, 28, who has made two TikTok videos that featured Bubly. "There's no obligation for me to talk about it."
Product placements in the United States are estimated to be a nearly $ 23 billion industry, according to PQ Media, a research firm. It has become increasingly appealing to advertisers, which have grown worried about consumers skipping commercials or the ads before YouTube videos.
The shifting viewership to social platforms and advances in technology have opened a new frontier for this work, moving it beyond getting Coca-Cola cups on the "American Idol" judges' table or cereal brands into WB shows.
Rembrand, which has 42 employees and is based in Palo Alto, Calif., believes it's on the forefront of these changes. It raised $ 14 million in seed funding from the likes of Greycroft and the venture arms of UTA Ventures and L'Oreal since it was created in 2022. One of its founders, Omar Tawakol, 55, spent years in programmatic advertising and is best known for founding and selling BlueKai -- which helped marketers track users' online behavior for ad targeting -- to Oracle in 2014.
Mr. Tawakol said he saw an opportunity to use A.I. to insert virtual products in influencer videos and make it a fast and easy ad buy.
Rembrand uses a form of generative A.I. that can "take an existing scene and figure out how to put a product in it," Mr. Tawakol said. "The product has to look exactly right -- Pepsi is not going to be forgiving if you screw with their logo," he added.
The company "had to train the laws of physics into the network," Mr. Tawakol said, so that objects would properly respond to things like light, camera distance and motion. Rembrand started placements with podcasts on YouTube because "they tended to be indoors, they tended to have fixed cameras, and they tended to have a table and a wall," he said.
It then expanded to LinkedIn and TikTok; Instagram is next. (The company said it went with the name Rembrand -- an allusion to the Dutch artist, who spelled it Rembrandt -- because it wanted an artistic bent while also sounding like shorthand for "remember the brand.")
Rembrand is still asking creators like Ms. Becraft to film indoors as they improve the technology. "The things I'm more famous for are dancing outside in the rain and dancing in Times Square," she said. "They told me that if you do that our technology might have a heart attack."
The placements are not as subtle as the ones in TV shows. Starry and Bubly cans wiggle before entering videos, and logos hover above them. The company shared a demo in which a digitized Tide Pen danced onto a podcast host's shirt and wiped away a stain before vanishing, "Fantasia" style. The company experimented with "what animations were acceptable," after realizing they could spike attention on the products, said Cory Treffiletti, 50, Rembrand's chief marketing officer.
Madison Luscombe, chief marketing officer of the Creator Society, an agency that works with Ms. Becraft, said that while the use of A.I.-generated product placement was in its early days, the deals could be valuable for "entertainment creators" who are focused on performing, podcasting or playing games, and aren't necessarily approached by brands as often to extol mascara or new snacks to their fans.
Advertisers use Rembrand's marketplace to connect with more than 1,000 creators from agencies it works with. Creators upload their videos to its platform and receive them within 24 hours with the product placements. Rembrand has someone check for quality and someone else for how the brand appears. Then creators upload the clips and eventually get paid from the brands based on video views. Rembrand declined to share specific figures around payouts.
The company said it expected to turn into a "self-service platform" by the middle of this year, where any creator or brand could connect and run digital product placement campaigns without Rembrand's involvement.
When asked why YouTube, TikTok and Instagram wouldn't just offer this option directly to creators on their platforms, Mr. Tawakol said he would "love" if they wanted to work with him. "I designed my business to integrate it with platforms," he said. "We want to be the world's best at this one very specific problem."
Photograph Screenshots of TikTok videos that used A.I. to digitally superimpose an animated can of Starry soda between a duo known as HiveMind, and a poster for Bubly sparkling water on the wall of the dancer Melissa Becraft's apartment. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA TIKTOK) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Marketing; Logos; Advertising; Video recordings; Product placement; Social networks; Artificial intelligence

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Logos Advertising Product placement Social networks Artificial intelligence

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/01/business/media/artificial-intelligence-product-placement.html

Title: Advertising Enlists A.I. On Old Trick:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 8, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2923201860

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/advertising-enlists-i-on-old-trick/docview/2923201860/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Chill Settles on Google as Staff Cuts Lead to a Change in Culture: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Grant, Nico

Publication info: Grant, Nico. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chill-settles-on-google-as-staff-cuts-lead-change/docview/2922322933/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Diane Hirsh Theriault's co-worker returned from lunch to Google's Cambridge, Mass., office one afternoon in October, his work badge couldn't open a turnstile. He quickly realized it was a sign that he had been laid off.
Dr. Hirsh Theriault soon learned that most of her fellow Google News engineers in Cambridge had also lost their jobs. More than 40 people in the news division were cut, a union at the company said, though a number of them were later offered jobs elsewhere inside Google.
Dr. Hirsh Theriault's experience is increasingly common at Google, where rolling job cuts in recent months, after a year of significant layoffs, have employees on edge. The layoffs have slowed down projects and prompted employees to spend working hours trying to learn which work groups have been hit and who could be next, said 10 current and former Google employees, including some who asked for anonymity so they could speak candidly about their jobs.
What's more, the layoffs have shifted the narrative that long defined working at Google -- that it was more of a tinker' community than a workaday office, where creativity and thinking out of the box was encouraged. That it was a fun, different kind of place to work.
Sundar Pichai, Google's chief executive, said more than a year ago that the company would cull 12,000 jobs, or 6 percent of the work force, describing it as "a difficult decision to set us up for the future."
Those cuts have trickled into this year in what Mr. Pichai said could be much smaller, rolling layoffs throughout the year. Since early January, the company has cut more than a thousand jobs, affecting its ad sales division, YouTube and employees working on the company's voice-operated assistant.
Alphabet, Google's parent company, has said it is trying to shed expenses to pay for its growing investment in artificial intelligence. And Google is trying to reduce layers of bureaucracy so that employees can focus on the biggest company priorities, said Courtenay Mencini, a Google spokeswoman. The company added that it was not conducting a companywide layoff, and that reorganizations were part of the normal course of business.
"The reality is that to create the capacity for this investment, we have to make tough choices," Mr. Pichai wrote in a note to employees on Jan. 17. For some divisions, "this means reorganizing and, in some cases, eliminating roles." Teams could still cut additional roles throughout the year, he added.
Employees say the workplace mood has turned glum. While Google has shifted into overdrive to develop artificial intelligence products and keep pace with competitors like Microsoft and the start-up OpenAI, some of the humans that build the company's technology feel less important.
Now "the buildings are half empty at 4:30," Dr. Hirsh Theriault wrote in a LinkedIn post. "I know a lot of people, myself included, who used to happily do extra work evenings and weekends to get the demo done or just out of boredom. That's gone."
Google's layoffs have been smaller than those at some other big tech companies like Meta. And as a percentage of the company's total work force, they are far smaller than recent cuts at companies like Xerox and the livestreaming platform Twitch. Google's full-time work force was 182,502 at the end of 2023, just 4 percent smaller than at the end of 2022. On Tuesday, the company said it had a $ 20.7 billion profit in the last quarter of 2023, up 52 percent from a year earlier.
But Google's job cuts have accompanied broader changes in how the company operated as it reshuffled work groups and removed management layers. Workers complain that reorganization has been chaotically carried out and poorly communicated.
When YouTube laid off one of its vendor manager teams, which are responsible for approving purchase orders so that content moderation firms get paid, the company did not notify other groups that rely on the team, one person said, though some of the workers were offered the chance to get their jobs back.
When layoffs resumed in January, a Google worker in Switzerland started an internal document for employees to track the job cuts since the company has said little to them about where it is making the cuts. The document has become an essential source of information, employees said, along with news reports, social media and the old-fashioned office rumor mill.
"From an H.R. standpoint, this is a nightmare," said Meghan M. Biro, whose firm, TalentCulture, creates content about best practices in human resources. "It completely reverses their image as a desirable employer."
Google said leaders had communicated clearly to teams when they were undergoing changes.
Workers warned in interviews that some of the cuts could prove disruptive to parts of the business already struggling to complete thorny tasks. In January, Google cut hundreds of employees from its core engineering organization, responsible for its infrastructure and tools used across the company.
One of the core division's main priorities is helping Google comply with the European Digital Markets Act when the law goes into effect on March 6. The law will make tech giants show consumers their choices for online services, such as web browsers, and force them to get consent to share user data within the company. But employees working on the efforts fear that the company is behind schedule and that it could be difficult for Google to be in full compliance by the deadline, two people with knowledge of the matter said.
Google said it had already started rolling out consent screens to European users in January and expected to introduce more changes ahead of the deadline. It added that the recent job reductions in its core division would not affect the timing.
Google employees were for a long time encouraged to work on experimental projects. But doing something experimental has over the last year proved to be risky, said four workers who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The company has all but shuttered Area 120, its in-house incubator that tried to develop new products and services, and altered the strategy of X, a "moonshot factory" that tried to build new companies.
Google said employees were constantly doing "extraordinarily innovative, ambitious things across the company."
Employees are more reluctant to ask for the so-called 20 percent, or side, projects, which used to be a way to explore an idea outside their regular work that they found compelling, five people said. That was a regrettable shift for Rupert Breheny, who spent 16 years at Google, mostly in Zurich, working on products like Google Street View in Maps.
"The thing that took you to Google was passion," said Mr. Breheny, who was laid off last summer. "You could have fun making stuff. It stayed like that for a long time."
Photograph Rupert Breheny, whom Google laid off, lamented a shift in workplace culture. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLARA TUMA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Diane Hirsh Theriault noted a loss of gusto, with many out the door by 4:30. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOPHIE PARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Workers; Purchase orders; Artificial intelligence; Employees; Layoffs; Employment; Social networks; Work environment

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Artificial intelligence Employees Layoffs Employment Social networks Work environment

Company / organization: Name: Google Inc; NAICS: 334310, 519290

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/05/technology/google-layoffs-work-culture.html

Title: A Chill Settles on Google as Staff Cuts Lead to a Change in Culture:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 6, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2922322933

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chill-settles-on-google-as-staff-cuts-lead-change/docview/2922322933/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hottest Job in Corporate America? Chief for A.I.: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lu, Yiwen

Publication info: Lu, Yiwen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hottest-job-corporate-america-chief-i/docview/2921611939/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Many feared that artificial intelligence would kill jobs. But hospitals, insurance companies and others are creating roles to navigate and harness the disruptive technology.
In September, the Mayo Clinic in Arizona created a first-of-its-kind job at the hospital system: chief artificial intelligence officer.
Doctors at the Arizona site, which has facilities in Phoenix and Scottsdale, had experimented with A.I. for years. But after ChatGPT's release in 2022 and an ensuing frenzy over the technology, the hospital decided it needed to work more with A.I. and find someone to coordinate the efforts.
So executives appointed Dr. Bhavik Patel, a radiologist who specializes in A.I., to the new job. Dr. Patel has since piloted a new A.I. model that could help speed up the diagnosis of a rare heart disease by looking for hidden data in ultrasounds.
"We're really trying to foster some of these data and A.I. capabilities throughout every department, every division, every work group," said Dr. Richard Gray, the chief executive of the Mayo Clinic in Arizona. The chief A.I. officer role was hatched because "it helps to have a coordinating function with the depth of expertise."
Many people have long feared that A.I. would kill jobs. But a boom in the technology has instead spurred law firms, hospitals, insurance companies, government agencies and universities to create what has become the hottest new role in corporate America and beyond: the senior executive in charge of A.I.
The Equifax credit bureau, the manufacturer Ashley Furniture and law firms such as Eversheds Sutherland have appointed A.I. executives over the past year. In December, The New York Times named an editorial director of A.I. initiatives. And more than 400 federal departments and agencies looked for chief A.I. officers last year to comply with an executive order by President Biden that created safeguards for the technology.
In total, 122 people with the title of chief or vice president of A.I. joined a forum last year on Glassdoor, the company reviews site, up from 19 in 2022, Glassdoor said.
The A.I. executive jobs are appearing because organizations want to harness the transformative technology, said Randy Bean, the founder of the consulting firm NewVantage Partners, who advises companies on data and A.I. leadership. At the same time, he added, "organizations want to say, 'Yeah, we have a chief A.I. officer,' because that makes them look good."
Other executive jobs have been formed in response to major technological and financial changes. In the 1980s, advances in computing power led to a boom in chief information officers and chief technology officers, who typically oversee how technology is used within a company or develop it. After the 2008 financial crisis, chief data officers were appointed to comply with new regulations and to manage how companies used data.
With A.I. executive roles, companies and organizations are looking for someone to help them navigate the technology's risks and potential and how it might change the way people work.
In May, the health insurer Florida Blue promoted Svetlana Bender to the new job of vice president of A.I. and behavioral science for just that purpose. One of her first A.I. projects was to pilot an internal chatbot that can help write computer code and analyze customer data.
Dr. Bender, who was previously Florida Blue's director of technology solutions, said her team would train the chatbot on customer data and open it to all employees to use. This month, she hired a director of A.I. to help with the work
"We want to move as quickly as possible" on using the technology, while making sure to keep customers' insurance data safe, she said.
Accenture, a consulting firm, added a chief A.I. officer in September as clients became increasingly interested in the technology. The company promoted Lan Guan, who worked on global data and A.I., to the role to advise customers on how to incorporate A.I. into their businesses. Accenture is also building A.I. tools, including for the insurance industry.
The new job "underscores our ambition in the market, and how optimistic we are about what we're seeing as the huge potential for our clients in A.I.," Ms. Guan said.
At Western University in Ontario, Mark Daley, a computer science professor and chief information officer, took the new position of chief A.I. officer in October. While he still teaches, he left the role of chief information officer.
Dr. Daley has since focused on establishing over 30 pilot A.I. projects, including working with the research and finance team to automate auditing processes and collaborating with faculty in humanities to develop new courses.
"We're in a moment where the best approach to generative A.I. is actually exploration and experimentation," he said.
Some experts said the technology was changing so rapidly, it could soon outpace the roles. A Harvard Business Review article last year, co-written by NewVantage's Mr. Bean, posited that chief A.I. and data officers were set up to fail because the jobs were "a high-pressure balancing act with a technology that offers huge risks and opportunities."
Karin Kimbrough, the chief economist at LinkedIn, said A.I. would also evolve from a newfangled technology to something baked into everyone's job. "A.I. will be across many roles, and it will be so ingrained that the specific A.I. job title will start to go away," she said.
Some chief A.I. officers said their job had staying power. Dr. Patel of the Mayo Clinic in Arizona said a large part of his new job was to communicate with other doctors and regulators like the Food and Drug Administration and to identify how A.I. can make medical work more efficient.
"Modern-day health care still has a lot of gaps," he said. "This is where I think we can smartly use artificial intelligence to bridge that gap, or at least reduce that."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU7.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Consulting firms; Law firms; Employment; Chatbots; Chief information officers; Insurance industry

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Consulting firms Law firms Employment Chief information officers Insurance industry

Location: Florida; United States--US; Arizona

Company / organization: Name: Mayo Clinic; NAICS: 622110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/29/technology/us-jobs-ai-chatgpt-tech.html

Title: Hottest Job in Corporate America? Chief for A.I.:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 4, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2921611939

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hottest-job-corporate-america-chief-i/docview/2921611939/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hey There, TikTok Viewers. I'm Losing My Job. Wanna Watch?: [Correction]

Author: Lu, Yiwen

Publication info: Lu, Yiwen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hey-there-tiktok-viewers-im-losing-my-job-wanna/docview/2920385267/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some tech workers are filming their layoffs and sharing them on social media. They say it's part catharsis, part transparency.
"I am about to get laid off," Folashade Ade-Banjo spoke to the camera while positioning her phone, "and you are about to see it."
In a five-minute TikTok video this month, Ms. Ade-Banjo, a 30-year-old Los Angeles marketing professional, was shown sitting quietly at her desk and staring at her computer, a pained look on her face as she nodded that she was ready to start. She was being laid off by a tech giant. The video racked up a half million views and thousands of comments within hours.
"One of my resolutions for this year was to be a lot more open and honest with things I struggle with in my own life, so part of that is really showing parts of my life that may not be as glamorous," Ms. Ade-Banjo said in an interview.
As companies from the start-up Discord to Google have shed hundreds of jobs in recent weeks, some tech workers are taking to social media to share their layoff experiences, and many of these videos have gone viral. They show people crying as they talk with human resources or going through their daily routine knowing a mysterious appointment on their calendar is likely to result in their termination.
The trend is part of a movement driven by Generation Z and millennials to share every aspect of their lives on social media, from stories about a bad date to deeply personal revelations during "get ready with me" videos of daily routines like applying makeup, according to career experts. The layoff videos and accompanying job-hunting posts on sites like LinkedIn and X are shedding new light on a private moment many people try to hide.
"The boundary between the personal and professional has been broken," said Sandra Sucher, a Harvard economist who studies layoffs.
Some workers say they are using the videos to process the emotions of losing their job. Joni Bonnemort, 38, of Salt Lake City, filmed herself crying as a credit repair company laid her off from her marketing job in April. She planned to share the video only with her family but posted it to TikTok after finding out that the company had paid out bonuses to the remaining staff a week after conducting layoffs. The video racked up more than 1.4 million views and supportive comments.
"I wasn't going to come off bitter like an exposé, but at the same time, it's my experience," Ms. Bonnemort said. "This happened to so many people."
Vanessa Burbano, a professor at Columbia Business School who studies how company practices influence employee behavior, said remote work had emboldened people to speak out online.
"The interaction between individuals and their company has just fundamentally shifted with the increase of remote work," she said.
After receiving a 30-minute "catch-up" meeting invitation from a new manager this month, Mickella Simone Miller, who worked remotely as a project manager based in Salt Lake City, filmed a video about her day working from home, including choosing a coffee mug that said, "The world is falling apart around us, and I'm dying inside." The video eventually showed her listening to her company announce it was eliminating her role.
Beyond being therapeutic, Ms. Miller said, the video led recruiters to reach out with potential opportunities -- and roughly 30 invitations to apply to new roles, although she hadn't found a new job yet.
Companies need to realize that anything can be recorded and shared, in an age when people are increasingly comfortable posting things online, said Lindsey Pollak, an author of career books on multigenerational workplaces. She sees it as a positive that people are sharing layoff experiences and doesn't think it will hurt their future chances of employment.
In one case, Matthew Prince, the chief executive of the cybersecurity company Cloudflare, responded on X this month to a nine-minute TikTok video of a firing at his firm. He defended the decision to fire the worker but said the company should have been "more kind and humane."
Brittany Pietsch, the former Cloudflare employee who posted the video, said she was going through over 10,000 LinkedIn messages, including many from recruiters.
"I don't have any regrets," she said in an interview. "All I did was just be candid and show a conversation that wasn't scripted."
While experts said the posts were unlikely to harm people's future career prospects, they cautioned that those who posted layoff videos needed to be OK with potential notoriety.
Ms. Ade-Banjo, the Los Angeles marketing professional, made her video private shortly after posting it, to protect the identities of the managers who laid her off. She said her goal was simply to shed light on and destigmatize the process.
"If someone else is going through this situation, they at least know that they are not alone," she said.
Photograph Joni Bonnemort, far left, filmed herself as a credit repair company laid her off in April. Mickella Simone Miller's layoff video, left, included a mug that said, "I'm dying inside." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONI BONNEMORT, VIA TIKTOK; MICKELLA SIMONE MILLER, VIA TIKTOK) (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Marketing; Workers; Careers; Video recordings; Layoffs; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Workers Careers Layoffs Social networks

Location: Los Angeles California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

Title: Hey There, TikTok Viewers. I'm Losing My Job. Wanna Watch?:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 1, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2920385267

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hey-there-tiktok-viewers-im-losing-my-job-wanna/docview/2920385267/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Watch Me Lose My Job on TikTok

Author: Lu, Yiwen

Publication info: Lu, Yiwen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/watch-me-lose-my-job-on-tiktok/docview/2920292487/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — “I am about to get laid off,” Folashade Ade-Banjo spoke to the camera while positioning her phone, “and you are about to see it.”
In a five-minute TikTok video this month, Ade-Banjo, 30, a Los Angeles marketing professional, was shown sitting quietly at her desk and staring at her computer, a pained look on her face as she nodded that she was ready to start. She was being laid off by a tech giant. The video racked up a half million views and thousands of comments within hours.
“One of my resolutions for this year was to be a lot more open and honest with things I struggle with in my own life, so part of that is really showing parts of my life that may not be as glamorous,” Ade-Banjo said in an interview.
As companies from startup Discord to Google have shed hundreds of jobs in recent weeks, some tech workers are taking to social media to share their layoff experiences, and many of these videos have gone viral. They show people crying as they talk with human resources or going through their daily routine knowing a mysterious appointment on their calendar is likely to result in their termination.
The trend is part of a movement driven by Generation Z and millennials to share every aspect of their lives on social media, from stories about a bad date to deeply personal revelations during “get ready with me” videos of daily routines like applying makeup, according to career experts. The layoff videos and accompanying job-hunting posts on sites like LinkedIn and X, formerly Twitter, are shedding new light on a private moment many people try to hide.
“The boundary between the personal and professional has been broken,” said Sandra Sucher, a Harvard economist who studies layoffs.
Some workers say they are using the videos to process the emotions of losing their job. Joni Bonnemort, 38, of Salt Lake City, filmed herself crying as a credit repair company laid her off from her marketing job in April. She planned to share the video only with her family but posted it to TikTok after finding out that the company had paid out bonuses to the remaining staff a week after conducting layoffs. The video racked up more than 1.4 million views and supportive comments.
“I wasn’t going to come off bitter like an exposé, but at the same time, it’s my experience,” Bonnemort said. “This happened to so many people.”
Vanessa Burbano, a professor at Columbia Business School who studies how company practices influence employee behavior, said remote work had emboldened people to speak out online.
“The interaction between individuals and their company has just fundamentally shifted with the increase of remote work,” she said.
After receiving a 30-minute “catch-up” meeting invitation from a new manager this month, Mickella Simone Miller, who worked remotely as a project manager based in Salt Lake City, filmed a video about her day working from home, including choosing a coffee mug that said, “The world is falling apart around us, and I’m dying inside.” The video eventually showed her listening to her company announce it was eliminating her role.
Beyond being therapeutic, Miller said, the video led recruiters to reach out with potential opportunities — and roughly 30 invitations to apply to new roles, although she hadn’t found a new job yet.
Companies need to realize that anything can be recorded and shared, in an age when people are increasingly comfortable posting things online, said Lindsey Pollack, an author of career books on multigenerational workplaces. She sees it as a positive that people are sharing layoff experiences and doesn’t think it will hurt their future chances of employment.
In one case, Matthew Prince, the CEO of cybersecurity company Cloudflare, responded on X this month to a nine-minute TikTok video of a firing at his firm. He defended the decision to fire the worker but said the company should have been “more kind and humane.”
Brittany Pietsch, the former Cloudflare employee who posted the video, said she was going through over 10,000 LinkedIn messages, including many from recruiters.
“I don’t have any regrets,” she said. “All I did was just be candid and show a conversation that wasn’t scripted.”
While experts said the posts were unlikely to harm people’s future career prospects, they cautioned that those who posted layoff videos needed to be OK with potential notoriety.
Ade-Banjo made her video private shortly after posting it, to protect the identities of the managers who laid her off. She said her goal was simply to shed light on and destigmatize the process.
“If someone else is going through this situation, they at least know that they are not alone,” she said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Careers; Video recordings; Layoffs; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers Layoffs Social networks

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Linkedin Corporation; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Executives And Management (Theory); Tiktok (Bytedance); Generation Z; Salt Lake City (Utah); Start Ups; Prince, Matthew; Bonuses; Millennial Generation; Smartphones; Careers And Professions; Unemployment; Telecommuting; Hiring And Promotion; Google Inc; Social Media; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Twitter; Workplace Environment; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Business

Title: Watch Me Lose My Job on TikTok

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 31, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-31T22:24:20Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2920292487

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/watch-me-lose-my-job-on-tiktok/docview/2920292487/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Tragic Fall or Murder? 'Obituary Pirates' Twist a Man's Fate.: [Correction]

Author: Keh, Andrew; Thompson, Stuart A

Publication info: Keh, Andrew; Thompson, Stuart A. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tragic-fall-murder-obituary-pirates-twist-mans/docview/2918856525/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It was the kind of tragic accident that reverberates through a community: a first-year college student, out late in New York City on New Year's Eve, falls onto the subway tracks and is killed by an oncoming train.
Word of the 19-year-old's death spread quickly among the people who knew the young man, Matthew Sachman, who went by Matteo, from his days at the Collegiate School in New York or Georgetown University.
As the circle of people learning the news widened beyond Mr. Sachman's immediate family, concern and curiosity about his shocking death led many of them to Google, where they typed his name and what little they knew into the search bar:
Matteo Sachman subway accident. Matteo Sachman obituary. Matteo Sachman death.
But instead of answers, anybody searching for information was confronted by a blizzard of poorly written news articles, shady-looking YouTube videos and inaccurate obituaries. Some said he was 29 years old (he was 19) and was from Nantucket. (His family spent summers there, but he was from New York.)
Others made an even more shocking claim: Mr. Sachman, they falsely reported, had been stabbed to death in a Bronx subway station. In fact, according to a statement from his family, Mr. Sachman and a friend were fooling around on a platform at the East Broadway stop in Manhattan, when he fell onto the tracks and was killed instantly by a train entering the station.
"There were sites I'd never heard of, information that was completely wrong," said Peter DeLuca, whose son, Matthew, went to high school with Mr. Sachman. "It didn't make sense."
And yet the information was spreading. Mr. DeLuca, the owner of several funeral homes in Manhattan, had come across other dubious obituaries recently and thus sensed something was amiss. But he and his wife were soon hearing from acquaintances who believed Mr. Sachman had been stabbed.
The young man's friends were already grieving. Now many of them were unnerved. In the hours after his death, his name and likeness ricocheted around a dark corner of the internet, where profiteers using artificial intelligence tools capitalized on the anguish and desperation of the people who were mourning him.
"I was looking for the truth," said Devan Mehrish, 19, a childhood friend, who was scrambling to piece the story together from San Diego. "But I didn't find it there."
The 'pirates' who hunt for tragedy
In the hours after his death, friends and family scrambled to find out more about Mr. Sachman's death. Few details were available -- no obituary, no news stories.
But as people searched Google for information, someone on the other side of the world was searching for exactly the kinds of reverberations that Mr. Sachman's death had caused.
Faisal Shah Khan, an internet marketer in India, knew nothing about Mr. Sachman. But suddenly, enough people were searching for "Matteo Sachman" to push his name up a list of trending Google search topics that Mr. Khan was monitoring as part of a digital moneymaking scheme.
To Mr. Khan, the rising interest meant that an audience for online content that did not yet exist was growing rapidly before his eyes. He was poised to deliver it.
Mr. Khan, 30, is part of a booming cottage industry online, in which enterprising people take advantage of the void of information in the wake of a sudden tragedy to drive web traffic to hastily assembled articles and YouTube videos.
These so-called obituary pirates seem to know about the deaths of everyday Americans long before they have been reported publicly anywhere else.
Mr. Khan -- whose website, FSK Hub, was the first site identified by The New York Times to post anything about Mr. Sachman's death -- agreed to walk The Times through his process.
Mr. Khan has spent the past five years building an online advertising business with websites devoted to celebrity news and tech reviews. But he said obituaries make up a huge part of his content farm.
Working from his living room in New Delhi, he closely monitors Google Trends for activity related to certain grim keywords: obituary, accident, death.
Google allows anyone to track usage trends for search terms in windows of time as narrow as the previous hour. When Mr. Khan searches those keywords on Google Trends, the company shows what else people who are searching for those terms are actively searching for in the moment.
Matteo Sachman subway accident. Matteo Sachman obituary. Matteo Sachman death.
These were the kinds of searches for truth that precipitated the flow of misinformation back to the people doing the searching.
Based on related searches, like "subway accident," Mr. Khan could surmise how Mr. Sachman had died. Mr. Khan could then conduct a cursory search of his own around the internet for any biographical information, leading him to a LinkedIn page detailing Mr. Sachman's work history. And finally, he could prompt an artificial intelligence tool called a large language model to create a short article.
"The article should be written in a conversational style, using personal pronouns, rhetorical questions and analogies to engage the reader," read one prompt intended for a language model, which was accidentally published on FSK Hub.
For his effort, Mr. Khan said he earns thousands of dollars each month from Google's ad network using numerous websites. But experts in internet marketing suggested that a more likely estimate would be less than $ 100 per month. Articles like Mr. Sachman's obituary would only fetch a penny or two per month, experts said.
"Money is not my priority," said Mr. Khan in an interview. He described himself as an "avid equestrian" who unwinds by riding horses through the wilderness and dreams of becoming a journalist one day. "Writing blogs brings me joy," he added.
In all, it took barely more than 24 hours for the search results of Mr. Sachman's name to be transformed into a minefield of ill-conceived, misleading content.
"We were trying to find out what happened, but we saw some weird things," said David Lombardi, the owner of a nursery and furniture store in Nantucket where Mr. Sachman had worked a summer job. "I just stopped and thought, 'This doesn't feel right."'
A growing problem
All anyone wants, in the event of a loved one's death, is for the memory of the deceased to be treated with dignity. The machine-generated obituaries are the opposite of that.
What the Sachman family experienced is becoming increasingly common for the bereaved, according to scores of complaints published online and interviews with people who endured eerily similar ordeals.
They were alarmed to see the fake obituaries posted before any official announcements or news stories. They were upset to read baseless speculation about possible causes of death in the A.I.-generated articles. And they were disheartened that seemingly nothing was being done about it.
"It's horrific and disturbing because it's so predatory," said Chris Silver Smith, a digital marketing consultant in Austin, Texas, whose brother-in-law was killed in a car accident last September.
People believe they can rely on Google not only for news about a person's death but also for information about funeral services, or to donate money to a grieving family.
Yet many now step away feeling unsettled or angry or, in some cases, fearful that they had been exposed to digital scams or malware.
"I felt like I had just clicked on something that was going to make my phone blow up," said Peggy Hammond, 54, a teacher in Birmingham, Ala., who began deleting applications, in a panic, after seeing several sketchy articles this month about an acquaintance's death. "It makes you not trust Google."
For now, there seem to be few options for anyone hoping to have these fake obituaries removed.
Audrey Wade, 27, a graduate student in Salt Lake City, filed dozens of complaints to Google last August about websites and YouTube videos that targeted a friend who had unexpectedly died. But she never heard back, and the content was never removed.
"They created this platform, with all of its unanticipated possibilities, and are therefore responsible for managing its use and abuse better," she said.
Though the obituaries appeared on other search engines, like Microsoft Bing, Google played a unique role in spreading news about Mr. Sachman across the internet.
Google Trends surfaced terms that internet marketers like Mr. Khan could use. Google Search circulated the obituaries for Mr. Sachman's family and friends to find. YouTube, which is owned by Google, allowed creators to spread falsehoods about Mr. Sachman to different audiences. And ads powered by Google appeared on most of the obituary websites, earning revenue for the websites' owners -- and for Google.
A Google spokesman said that the company was aware that low-quality obituaries can flood search results after someone dies, and it was exploring ways to address it. The company pointed to policies that penalize websites for using automation, including A.I., and said an upcoming change to Google Trends would reduce the chances that names of people who are not well known will be highlighted.
"Google always aims to surface high quality information, but data voids are a known challenge for all search engines," a Google spokesman shared in an emailed statement. "We understand how distressing this content can be, and we're working to launch updates that will significantly improve search results for queries like these."
Google removed several YouTube videos about Mr. Sachman after The Times inquired about them and disabled ads on many of the obituary websites.
After the pirates move on
Mr. Sachman made the most of his lone semester at Georgetown. He joined the university's marketing association, volunteered with an organization aiding homeless people and worked at a bar on campus, according to The Hoya, the school's newspaper, which published the first legitimate news story about his death on Jan. 19.
"What happened is devastating, and it hit the community hard, and we miss him," said Mr. Mehrish, who described his childhood friend as charismatic and smart. "It's been a hard pill to swallow. We haven't experienced something like this before. It's a novel experience, and it's a brutal experience."
Collegiate, the elite private boys' school on the Upper West Side that Mr. Sachman had attended, sent out an email on the night of Jan. 2 noting that he had died "as a result of a tragic accident." Georgetown did the same, with the same vague language, and no other details.
The family had wanted to divulge information at their own pace. But in the depths of their grief, as they came together at home to process the excruciating pain of losing their son, Mr. Sachman's parents were already hearing from family members that obituaries with false information were proliferating online -- the wrong age, the wrong location, the wrong everything.
"The stories published online were completely wrong," the family said in a statement.
On Jan. 5, four days after their son's death, the Sachmans had a paid obituary published in The Times, remembering their son as "a young man full of joy who exuded warmth and love, positive energy and care for all."
But by then the clamor for information had passed. The erroneous stories about Mr. Sachman remained, though no longer at the very top of the search results for his name.
The pirates who published them, having extracted a few pennies, had long since moved on.
Kitty Bennett and Ishaan Jhaveri contributed research. Chelsia Rose Marcius contributed reporting.
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Kitty Bennett and Ishaan Jhaveri contributed research. Chelsia Rose Marcius contributed reporting. Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Photograph FSK Hub was the first website identified by The New York Times to post about Mr. Sachman's death. Nearly identical posts soon followed.; How News About a Death Spread Online (A12) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12.

Subject: Marketing; Piracy; Internet; Artificial intelligence; Trends; Video recordings; Deaths; Stabbings; False information; Murders & murder attempts

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Artificial intelligence

Location: New York; United States--US; Nantucket Massachusetts

Company / organization: Name: Google Inc; NAICS: 334310, 519290

Title: A Tragic Fall or Murder? 'Obituary Pirates' Twist a Man's Fate.:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 28, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918856525

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tragic-fall-murder-obituary-pirates-twist-mans/docview/2918856525/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

China Acknowledges Imprisoning British Man on Spy Charges in 2022: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Wang, Vivian; Buckley, Chris; Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Wang, Vivian; Buckley, Chris; Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-acknowledges-imprisoning-british-man-on-spy/docview/2918856477/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A businessman who had worked in China for decades vanished from view in 2018, but his fate had been unknown, and publicly unremarked upon, until now.
A British businessman who disappeared from public view in China in 2018 was sentenced to five years in prison in 2022, China's Foreign Ministry said on Friday, in its first public acknowledgment of the case.
The businessman, Ian J. Stones, had lived in China since the 1970s, working for companies like General Motors and Pfizer. For years after he vanished, there was no public information about his whereabouts, though some in the business community privately discussed his secret detention.
A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry said that Mr. Stones had been convicted in 2022 of "buying and unlawfully supplying intelligence for an organization or individual outside China." Mr. Stones's appeal of the verdict was rejected in September 2023, said the spokesman, Wang Wenbin.
Mr. Wang was responding to reporters' questions at a regularly scheduled news conference, after The Wall Street Journal reported Mr. Stones's case on Thursday.
"The Chinese courts heard the trial strictly in accordance with the law," Mr. Wang said, adding that China "protects the lawful rights of Chinese and foreign parties."
It is unclear when Mr. Stones will be released and whether he will be given credit for time served before his conviction.
Laura Stones, Mr. Stones's daughter, did not respond to a request for comment. But she told The Journal that the Chinese authorities had not given her or British Embassy staff access to the legal documents in the case, nor allowed them to attend the trial.
The revelation is likely to deepen concerns among foreign companies about the risks of operating in China in an increasingly insular political climate, led by China's leader, Xi Jinping, and the country's powerful security agencies.
China revised its already sweeping counterespionage law last year to expand the definition of spying and has warned repeatedly in recent months about the dangers of interactions with foreigners. Officials also raided last year the offices of several American companies and detained some Chinese employees.
Foreign governments have at times accused China of arresting foreigners as political pawns, as in the case of two Canadians arrested in 2018 after Canada detained a prominent Chinese technology executive. An Australian businessman and writer, Yang Hengjun, is still in detention in China, and an Australian journalist, Cheng Lei, was released in October. Both had been accused of unrelated national security offenses and have denied wrongdoing.
There is no official tally of the number of foreigners detained in China. Information about the charges against them is usually highly limited. While detained foreigners' governments or relatives sometimes speak up about their cases, some remain quiet, possibly in hopes of negotiating behind the scenes with Beijing.
Mr. Stones, who is around 70, had worked as a senior manager for General Motors Asia, helping it to expand in China in the 1990s, and as a manager in China for Pfizer Pharmaceuticals. At the time of his detention, he had been working for over a decade as a consultant advising investors on deals, regulations and disputes in China, according to his LinkedIn page, which is no longer available online.
With his decades of experience in the country and fluency in Chinese, he was well known among Western investors and executives in Beijing. On LinkedIn, Mr. Stones said that Navisino Partners, a consulting company where he was a partner, specialized in "finding solutions to difficult challenges, structuring deals, work-outs, turnarounds."
He also had relationships with Chinese government agencies; he had presented to China's National Bureau of Statistics, according to an annual report in 2007 by The Conference Board, a New York-based business research group where he was a senior adviser.
The length of Mr. Stones's tenure in China made him among the best-connected foreigners in Beijing, said Peter Humphrey, a British private investigator who met Mr. Stones in China in the late 1970s. Mr. Humphrey was detained for two years in China on charges of illegally obtaining information and deported after his release in 2015; he has said he believed his work in China was legal.
Some of the people Mr. Stones met during his early days in China went on to become high-level officials, Mr. Humphrey said, which made him an especially sought-after business figure.
But by 2015, Mr. Stones knew he was potentially at risk, Mr. Humphrey said. The two men met then in Britain, not long after Mr. Humphrey's release, and Mr. Stones told him that he had been asked to speak with state security officials and was under surveillance.
"He seemed to think he could handle it," Mr. Humphrey said. "Obviously he was wrong."
Mr. Humphrey's account could not be independently verified.
The circumstances around Mr. Stones's arrest remain opaque, and it is unknown what communications have taken place between the British and Chinese governments. Britain's foreign office declined to comment.
Mr. Stones's detention coincides with a period in which the British government has taken a tougher line on China, often siding with the United States' critical positions. In 2020, it banned Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications equipment company, from involvement in Britain's new high-speed wireless network, a decision that Beijing condemned.
London's ties with Beijing have also deteriorated over China's continuing suppression of civil rights in Hong Kong, a former British colony. Britain has also criticized China over its repression of Muslims in the Xinjiang region, its military pressure on Taiwan and its continued partnership with Russia despite the war in Ukraine.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Decades; Political prisoners; Espionage

Location: China; Beijing China; United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Pfizer Inc; NAICS: 325412, 339113; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/26/world/asia/china-britain-spy.html

Title: China Acknowledges Imprisoning British Man on Spy Charges in 2022:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 28, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918856477

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-acknowledges-imprisoning-british-man-on-spy/docview/2918856477/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Died in a Tragic Accident. Why Did the Internet Say He Was Murdered?

Author: Keh, Andrew; Thompson, Stuart A

Publication info: Keh, Andrew; Thompson, Stuart A. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-died-tragic-accident-why-did-internet-say-was/docview/2918777806/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
It was the kind of tragic accident that reverberates through a community: a first-year college student, out late in New York City on New Year’s Eve, falls onto the subway tracks and is killed by an oncoming train.
Word of the 19-year-old’s death spread quickly among the people who knew the young man, Matthew Sachman, who went by Matteo, from his days at Collegiate High School in New York or Georgetown University.
As the circle of people learning the news widened beyond Sachman’s immediate family, concern and curiosity about his shocking death led many of them to Google, where they typed his name and what little they knew into the search bar:
Matteo Sachman subway accident. Matteo Sachman obituary. Matteo Sachman death.
But instead of answers, anybody searching for information was confronted by a blizzard of poorly written news articles, shady-looking YouTube videos and inaccurate obituaries. Some said he was 29 years old and was from Nantucket, in Massachusetts. (His family spent summers there, but he was from New York.)
Others made an even more shocking claim: Sachman, they falsely reported, had been stabbed to death in a Bronx subway station. In fact, according to a statement from his family, Sachman and a friend were fooling around on a platform at the East Broadway stop in Manhattan, when he fell onto the tracks and was killed instantly by a train entering the station.
“There were sites I’d never heard of, information that was completely wrong,” said Peter DeLuca, whose son, Matthew, went to high school with Sachman. “It didn’t make sense.”
And yet the information was spreading. DeLuca, owner of several funeral homes in Manhattan, had come across other dubious obituaries recently and thus sensed something was amiss. But he and his wife were soon hearing from acquaintances who believed Sachman had been stabbed.
The young man’s friends were already grieving. Now many of them were unnerved. In the hours after his death, his name and likeness ricocheted around a dark corner of the internet, where profiteers using artificial intelligence tools capitalized on the anguish and desperation of the people who were mourning him.
“I was looking for the truth,” said Devan Mehrish, 19, a childhood friend, who was scrambling to piece the story together from San Diego. “But I didn’t find it there.”
The ‘Pirates’ Who Hunt for Tragedy
In the hours after his death, friends and family scrambled to find out more about Sachman’s death. Few details were available — no obituary, no news stories.
But as people searched Google for information, someone on the other side of the world was searching for exactly the kinds of reverberations that Sachman’s death had caused.
Faisal Shah Khan, an internet marketer in India, knew nothing about Sachman. But suddenly, enough people were searching for “Matteo Sachman” to push his name up a list of trending Google search topics that Khan was monitoring as part of a digital moneymaking scheme.
To Khan, the rising interest meant that an audience for online content that did not yet exist was growing rapidly before his eyes. He was poised to deliver it.
Khan, 30, is part of a booming cottage industry online in which enterprising people take advantage of the void of information in the wake of a sudden tragedy to drive web traffic to hastily assembled articles and YouTube videos.
These so-called obituary pirates seem to know about the deaths of everyday Americans long before they have been reported publicly anywhere else.
Khan — whose website, FSK Hub, was the first site identified by The New York Times to post anything about Sachman’s death — agreed to walk the Times through his process.
Khan has spent the past five years building an online advertising business with websites devoted to celebrity news and tech reviews. But he said obituaries make up a huge part of his content farm.
Working from his living room in New Delhi, he closely monitors Google Trends for activity related to certain grim keywords: obituary, accident, death.
Google allows anyone to track usage trends for search terms in windows of time as narrow as the previous hour. When Khan searches those keywords on Google Trends, the company shows what else people who are searching for those terms are actively searching for in the moment.
Matteo Sachman subway accident. Matteo Sachman obituary. Matteo Sachman death.
These were the kinds of searches for truth that precipitated the flow of misinformation back to the people doing the searching.
Based on related searches, such as “subway accident,” Khan could surmise how Sachman had died. Khan could then conduct a cursory search of his own around the internet for any biographical information, leading him to a LinkedIn page detailing Sachman’s work history. And finally, he could prompt an AI tool called a large language model to create a short article.
“The article should be written in a conversational style, using personal pronouns, rhetorical questions and analogies to engage the reader,” read one prompt intended for a language model, which was accidentally published on FSK Hub.
For his effort, Khan said he earns thousands of dollars each month from Google’s ad network using numerous websites. But experts in internet marketing suggested that a more likely estimate would be less than $100 per month. Articles such as Sachman’s obituary would only fetch a penny or two per month, experts said.
“Money is not my priority,” said Khan in an interview. He described himself as an “avid equestrian” who unwinds by riding horses through the wilderness and dreams of becoming a journalist one day. “Writing blogs brings me joy,” he added.
In all, it took barely more than 24 hours for the search results of Sachman’s name to be transformed into a minefield of ill-conceived, misleading content.
“We were trying to find out what happened, but we saw some weird things,” said David Lombardi, owner of a nursery and furniture store in Nantucket where Sachman had worked a summer job. “I just stopped and thought, ‘This doesn’t feel right.’”
A Growing Problem
All anyone wants, in the event of a loved one’s death, is for the memory of the deceased to be treated with dignity. The machine-generated obituaries are the opposite of that.
What the Sachman family experienced is becoming increasingly common for the bereaved, according to scores of complaints published online and interviews with people who endured eerily similar ordeals.
They were alarmed to see the fake obituaries posted before any official announcements or news stories. They were upset to read baseless speculation about possible causes of death in the AI-generated articles. And they were disheartened that seemingly nothing was being done about it.
“It’s horrific and disturbing because it’s so predatory,” said Chris Silver Smith, a digital marketing consultant in Austin, Texas, whose brother-in-law was killed in a car accident in September.
People believe they can rely on Google not only for news about a person’s death but also for information about funeral services or to donate money to a grieving family.
Yet many now step away feeling unsettled or angry or, in some cases, fearful that they had been exposed to digital scams or malware.
“I felt like I had just clicked on something that was going to make my phone blow up,” said Peggy Hammond, 54, a teacher in Birmingham, Alabama, who began deleting applications, in a panic, after seeing several sketchy articles this month about an acquaintance’s death. “It makes you not trust Google.”
For now, there seem to be few options for anyone hoping to have these fake obituaries removed.
Audrey Wade, 27, a graduate student in Salt Lake City, filed dozens of complaints to Google in August about websites and YouTube videos that targeted a friend who had unexpectedly died. But she never heard back, and the content was never removed.
“They created this platform, with all of its unanticipated possibilities, and are therefore responsible for managing its use and abuse better,” she said.
Although the obituaries appeared on other search engines, including Microsoft Bing, Google played a unique role in spreading news about Sachman across the internet.
Google Trends surfaced terms that internet marketers such as Khan could use. Google Search circulated the obituaries for Sachman’s family and friends to find. YouTube, which is owned by Google, allowed creators to spread falsehoods about Sachman to different audiences. And ads powered by Google appeared on most of the obituary websites, earning revenue for the websites’ owners — and for Google.
A Google spokesperson said the company is aware that low-quality obituaries can flood search results after someone dies, and it is exploring ways to address it.
The company pointed to policies that penalize websites for using automation, including AI, and said an upcoming change to Google Trends will reduce the chances that names of people who are not well known will be highlighted.
“Google always aims to surface high quality information, but data voids are a known challenge for all search engines,” a Google spokesperson shared in an emailed statement. “We understand how distressing this content can be, and we’re working to launch updates that will significantly improve search results for queries like these.”
Google removed several YouTube videos about Sachman after the Times inquired about them and disabled ads on many of the obituary websites.
After the Pirates Move On
Sachman made the most of his lone semester at Georgetown. He joined the university’s marketing association, volunteered with an organization aiding homeless people and worked at a bar on campus, according to The Hoya, the school’s newspaper, which on Jan. 19 published the first legitimate news story about his death.
“What happened is devastating, and it hit the community hard, and we miss him,” said Mehrish, who described his childhood friend as charismatic and smart. “It’s been a hard pill to swallow. We haven’t experienced something like this before. It’s a novel experience, and it’s a brutal experience.”
Collegiate, the elite private boys school on the Upper West Side that Sachman had attended, sent out an email on the night of Jan. 2 noting that he had died “as a result of a tragic accident.” Georgetown did the same, with the same vague language and no other details.
The family had wanted to divulge information at their own pace. But in the depths of their grief, as they came together at home to process the excruciating pain of losing their son, Sachman’s parents were already hearing from family members that obituaries with false information were proliferating online — the wrong age, the wrong location, the wrong everything.
“The stories published online were completely wrong,” the family said in a statement.
On Jan. 5, four days after their son’s death, the Sachmans had a paid obituary published in the Times, remembering their son as “a young man full of joy who exuded warmth and love, positive energy and care for all.”
But by then, the clamor for information had passed. The erroneous stories about Sachman remained, though no longer at the very top of the search results for his name.
The pirates who published them, having extracted a few pennies, had long since moved on.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Marketing; Internet; Trends; Video recordings; Murders & murder attempts; Deaths; Stabbings

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing

Location: Nantucket Massachusetts; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Linkedin Corporation; New Year; E Learning; Texas; Nantucket (Mass); Bronx (Nyc); New York Times; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Deaths (Obituaries); Subways; Stations And Terminals (Passenger); Death And Dying; New York City; Georgetown University; Youth; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Alabama; Language And Languages; Google Inc; Social Media; Search Engines; Online Advertising; Falls; Railroads; Outdoor Advertising; Advertising And Marketing; New Delhi (India); Forgery; Computers And The Internet; Delhi (India); News And News Media; YoutubeCom; Rumors And Misinformation; Upper West Side (Manhattan, Ny); Deaths (Fatalities); Education (K 12); East Broadway (Manhattan, Ny); Private And Sectarian Schools; Artificial Intelligence; Railroad Accidents And Safety; Consumer Reviews; Salt Lake City (Utah); India; Austin (Tex); Names, Organizational; Colleges And Universities; Microsoft Corp; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Funerals And Memorials; Names, Personal; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Grief (Emotion)

Title: He Died in a Tragic Accident. Why Did the Internet Say He Was Murdered?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 27, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-27T16:43:09Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918777806

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-died-tragic-accident-why-did-internet-say-was/docview/2918777806/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Historic Buildings and Housing Shortages: [Letter]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/historic-buildings-housing-shortages/docview/2917144034/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: To the Editor:
Re "Preservation Has Become the Enemy of Evolution," by Binyamin Appelbaum (Opinion, Jan. 7):
We must destroy New York in order to save it? And discard our history and heritage for expediency's sake?
New York City needs more, not less, historical memory. What we do not need is a return to the housing policies of Robert Moses.
Mr. Appelbaum writes that much of Brooklyn Heights has been fossilized. Would he say that Paris has been "fossilized" because its city leaders preserve its buildings? There's no other place like Brooklyn Heights in the United States. But there are countless other cities around the globe with soulless, interchangeable skyscrapers. We mustn't sacrifice what makes New York unique and beautiful simply for new buildings and for uncreative solutions to pressing housing problems.
We have lots of unused commercial and industrial buildings in the city that can be converted to housing. We have millions of square feet of office space that will never be used again, despite the desires of wealthy developers. The solution isn't to destroy the homes that are already built and have been preserved.
The original Penn Station was demolished and replaced with a monstrosity of a train station and a nondescript office tower -- and we are poorer for it.
I hope that we've learned something, and that our city's leaders will heed the lessons of history -- and not the proposals put forward in this essay.
Daniel Dolgicer
New York
To the Editor:
In pitting preservation against housing, Binyamin Appelbaum presents a false choice: Either New York can protect the historic buildings that contribute to its unique history and culture or it can build more housing.
His premise was directly contradicted by an Opinion guest essay the same day, "New York Has Room for Housing," by Vishaan Chakrabarti, showing that more than a million new New Yorkers could be housed without "altering its historic districts."
But just because New York could grow without touching its historic buildings does not mean it should. Most preservationists recognize that rehabilitating and reusing historic buildings for housing is key to addressing the country's housing shortage.
Last month, the federal Advisory Council on Historic Preservation formalized this view. It adopted a policy statement that will streamline its own review processes, which affect thousands of federally funded housing units annually. The policy statement also identifies tax, zoning, building code and other policy reforms necessary to fast-track office-to-housing conversions, increase residential density in historic districts and improve accessibility.
The Advisory Council stands ready to work with cities like New York to implement, test and refine progressive preservation strategies that allow more people to live in and benefit from the inspiring places that connect us to our past.
Sara C. Bronin
Washington
The writer is chair of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
To the Editor:
Re "Preservation Has Become the Enemy of Evolution" and "New York Has Room for Housing":
As a former New Yorker and city planner, I read these articles with interest. No reasonable person could argue that New York City does not need more housing. Vishaan Chakrabarti's article provides an intriguing path for this development, one that would respect New York's rich urban fabric.
Yet it is myopic to focus on the city alone. New York City is surrounded by suburban areas with more population than the city itself. Much of this area is well served by rail and bus transit. While some communities have built housing around these stations, there are many others that have not. Low-rise and mid-rise housing could be built in these communities while respecting their character.
New York suburbs have been among the resistant to needed housing in the country. The New York metropolitan area has the second most restrictive zoning of 48 large American metropolitan areas, according to the National Zoning and Land Use Database. New York suburbs have been fighting furiously against Gov. Kathy Hochul's sensible reforms to spur suburban housing, reforms with goals like those in California and Massachusetts. New York has a regional housing shortage that should be addressed throughout the region.
Nathan Landau
Berkeley, Calif.
Moving the Needle on Trump
To the Editor:
The editorial writers and columnists at The New York Times have repeatedly, and convincingly, provided reasoned arguments to an electorate that must reject a return of Donald Trump as president. There is no doubt that he is dangerous for our country, and likely for the world in general.
Yes, many of us Times readers likely agree with these sentiments, as can be seen in the daily letters section. But this is an echo chamber that may make us feel strong and committed to the cause. I imagine that it does nothing to sway the opinions of those who support Mr. Trump and do not read The Times.
As the "paper of record," what can The Times do to get the message out to those who depend on Fox or Breitbart for their news? Is there a creative way to provide a clear and convincing message that may move the needle just enough to sidestep this impending disaster?
I look to you, the leaders in informing the public, to figure out a way forward.
Jonathan D. Glass
Atlanta
Russian vs. Russian
To the Editor:
Re "In Russia, Even the Smallest Dissent Is Silenced" (front page, Jan. 13):
Totalitarianism, Putin style, shouldn't surprise us. One expects no less from a former K.G.B. officer with a tight grip on the reins of political power.
What is disturbing, as the article describes it, is that "people increasingly inform on their fellow citizens." In Stalinist times, neighbors often snitched on neighbors for purely selfish reasons: grabbing the victims' apartments or their communal spaces.
Contemporary reasons for snitching are apparently less personal but more insidious and dangerous; they reflect a form of the aggressive nationalism promoted by Vladimir Putin's regime. Anyone seen as maligning "the special military operation" in Ukraine, no matter how trivially or privately, is somehow rendered an enemy of Russia.
Louis Menashe
Brooklyn
The writer is professor emeritus of Russian history, Polytechnic Institute of N.Y.U.
I'm Off Social Media
To the Editor:
Re "Turning to an Old Model to Cut My Screen Time," by Kashmir Hill (Sunday Business, Jan. 7), in which she described switching to a flip phone for a month:
I've accomplished much the same thing, simply by removing myself from social media. I am not on Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, anything. If it's social media, I am not on it. I also turn on a phone feature that accepts no calls between 10 at night and 8 in the morning, except from select people.
As you are reading this message from my iPhone, I clearly use a smartphone. But in addition to the above-mentioned steps, I will set it down on the counter and walk away for an hour or more without regret.
Susan Hinton
Santa Clara, Calif.
This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Councils; Zoning; Social networks; Suburban areas; Historic preservation; Historic buildings & sites; Political power; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Russia; New York; United States--US; New York City New York

People: Appelbaum, Binyamin

Company / organization: Name: Advisory Council on Historic Preservation; NAICS: 921110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/21/opinion/historic-buildings-housing.html

Title: Historic Buildings and Housing Shortages:   [Letter ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 22, 2024

column: Ters

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Letter

ProQuest document ID: 2917144034

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/historic-buildings-housing-shortages/docview/2917144034/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Snapping Up Farmers' Land to Create a City: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Dougherty, Conor

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/snapping-up-farmers-land-create-city/docview/2916783025/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In Solano County, Calif., a who's who of tech money is trying to build a city from the ground up. But some of the locals whose families have been there for generations don't want to sell the land.
When Jan Sramek walked into the American Legion post in Rio Vista, Calif., for a town-hall meeting last month, everyone in the room knew that he was really just there to get yelled at.
For six years a mysterious company called Flannery Associates, which Mr. Sramek controlled, had upended the town of 10,000 by spending hundreds of millions of dollars trying to buy every farm in the area. Flannery made multimillionaires out of some owners and sparked feuds among others. It sued a group of holdouts who had refused its above-market offers, on the grounds that they were colluding for more.
The company was Rio Vista's main source of gossip, yet until a few weeks before the meeting no one in the room had heard of Mr. Sramek or knew what Flannery was up to. Residents worried it could be a front for foreign spies looking to surveil a nearby Air Force base. One theory held the company was acquiring land for a new Disneyland.
Now the truth was standing in front of them. And somehow it was weirder than the rumors.
The truth was that Mr. Sramek wanted to build a city from the ground up, in an agricultural region whose defining feature was how little it had changed. The idea would have been treated as a joke if it weren't backed by a group of Silicon Valley billionaires who included Michael Moritz, the venture capitalist; Reid Hoffman, the investor and co-founder of LinkedIn; and Laurene Powell Jobs, the founder of the Emerson Collective and the widow of the Apple co-founder Steve Jobs. They and others from the technology world had spent some $ 900 million on farmland in a demonstration of their dead seriousness about Mr. Sramek's vision.
Rio Vista, part of Solano County, is technically within the San Francisco Bay Area, but its bait shops and tractor suppliers and Main Street lined with American flags can feel a state away. Mr. Sramek's plan was billed as a salve for San Francisco's urban housing problems. But paving over ranches to build a city of 400,000 wasn't the sort of idea you'd expect a group of farmers to be enthused about.
As the TV cameras anticipated, a group of protesters had gathered in the parking lot to shake signs near pickup trucks. Inside, a crowd in jeans and boots sat in chairs, looking skeptical.
Mr. Sramek, 36, who is from the Czech Republic and had come to California to try to make it in start-ups, was now the center of their economy. Flannery had become the largest landowner in the region, amassing an area twice the size of San Francisco.
Christine Mahoney, 63, whose great-grandfather established her family's farm when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, told me that, like it or not, Mr. Sramek was now her neighbor. Ms. Mahoney had refused several offers for her land, and Flannery's lawsuit -- an antitrust case in federal court -- described her as a conspirator who was out to bilk his company.
But she had never met the man in person, so she came to say hello.
"You might be asking yourself, 'Why is this guy with a funny accent here?"' Mr. Sramek began the meeting.
He spent about 20 minutes pitching his plans before submitting to questions and resentments. People accused him of pushing small farms out of business. They said Flannery's money was turning families against each other.
"Good neighbors don't sue their neighbors!" one man yelled to applause.
Mr. Sramek, who is tall, intense and practiced in the art of holding eye contact, stayed up front after the meeting to glad-hand.
When Ms. Mahoney and her husband, Dan, 65, approached him, Mr. Sramek said, "Hi, Christine!" as if they had met several times before and he wasn't currently suing her.
"I'd like to welcome you as our neighbor, but it's kind of difficult," Ms. Mahoney said.
She talked about how much stress the lawsuit had put on her family.
Mr. Sramek nodded, as if she were talking about someone else, not him. Then he asked the couple to dinner. The Mahoneys agreed.
Going to the Ballot
One key difference between building an app and building a city is that a city requires permission. On Wednesday, Mr. Sramek's company officially filed a proposed ballot initiative that would ask voters to buy in. Specifically, the measure aims to amend a longstanding "orderly growth" ordinance that protects Solano County's farms and open space by steering development to urban areas.
Solano's residents have consistently backed the city-centered-growth laws, so Mr. Sramek's project is bound to be controversial. To overcome resistance, the initiative includes a long list of promises like new roads, money to invest in downtowns across the county and a $ 400 million fund to help Solano residents buy homes.
Mr. Sramek also revealed that he hoped to build directly next to Rio Vista, with a half-mile-wide park separating the old farming town from the new tech city. Renderings that his company released this month portray a medium-density community that is roughly the opposite of a subdivision, with a grid of rowhouses that lie a short walk from shops and have easy access to bike lanes and bus stops. He said the first phase of building could accommodate around 50,000 people.
Even if the measure gets on the ballot and passes, it will be one step on a path requiring approval from county, state and federal agencies -- a long list of ifs that explains why large projects are usually measured in decades, not the few years that Mr. Sramek seems to imagine.
It's a crucial step, however. Beyond amending the ordinance, a win would pressure county officials to work with Mr. Sramek, so opponents are already lining up. A group called Solano Together, a mix of agricultural and environmental organizations like Greenbelt Alliance, recently created a website that characterizes the project as harmful sprawl that would destroy farms.
The fight is something of a throwback. Whether it was paving over San Fernando Valley orange groves to build out Los Angeles or ripping out apricot farms in what is now Silicon Valley, California became the nation's biggest state and economy largely by trading open and agricultural land for population and development.
That shifted in the 1960s and 1970s, when a backlash against the growth-first regime and its penchant for destroying landscapes helped create modern environmentalism. In the half-century since, this turn has been codified in laws that aim to restrict development to existing cities and their edges. It has protected farms and open space, but also helped drive up the cost of living by making housing scarcer and more expensive to build.
Mr. Sramek framed his proposal as a backlash to the backlash, part of an ideological project to revive Californians' appetite for growth. If the state is serious about tackling its dire affordable housing problem, he argued, it doesn't just have to build more housing in places like San Francisco and its suburbs -- it also has to expand the urban footprint with new cities.
As a matter of policy, this is hard to dismiss. This is politics, however, so the bigger question is whether voters share his desire to return California to an era of expansion. And whether -- after six years during which Mr. Sramek obfuscated his role in Flannery's secret land acquisition, along with the company's billionaire backers and true purpose, all while pursuing farmers with aggressive tactics and lawsuits -- they find him trustworthy.
The Golden Boy vs. 1877
Christine and Dan Mahoney's house looks onto a barn that says 1877, the year Ms. Mahoney's great-grandfather built it.
When I met the couple for an interview at their house last year, Ms. Mahoney had decorated the dining table with black-and-white pictures of relatives in button dresses and bonnets. Later we drove along roads named for her ancestors.
Winding through the hills, Ms. Mahoney ticked off parcels that belonged to the family, others that were owned by neighbors and more owned by Flannery. When I asked how she discerned the lines of ownership in an expanse of yellow grassland, she said: "You live here a hundred years."
Mr. Sramek, meanwhile, talks about growth in moral terms, as if progress and wealth are simpatico and the most consequential people are those who build big things and a fortune along the way.
Driving near the Mahoneys' ranch recently, through the same yellow hills, he posited that the mix of wealth and innovation that has exploded in the Bay Area has happened only a handful of times in history. (Florence, Paris, London, New York, Chicago and "maybe L.A." were some others.) We were 60 miles from San Francisco in a place where the tallest structures are wind turbines, but his message was that the region could be an economic sun, and that bringing more people in the orbit was worthy of the trade-offs.
An immigrant and striver who at 22 was a co-author of a book called "Racing Towards Excellence," Mr. Sramek got his first spurt of publicity at Goldman Sachs, where the financial press hailed him as a "Golden Boy" trader and considered it newsworthy when he left, after two years of employment, to chase a bigger dream in start-ups.
His tech career was less sparkling. After Goldman, he moved from London to Zurich and started a corporate education company called Better. It operated for two years and prompted a move to San Francisco, where he founded a social media company, Memo, in 2015.
Memo was billed as a higher-minded version of Twitter and won praise from the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen. That praise was delivered on Twitter instead of Memo, which was pretty much the story: Memo failed to rack up users and shut down after a year.
His failures aside, Mr. Sramek was smitten with the Bay Area's culture of creative capitalism. He was less enamored with the actual place.
The mythical Silicon Valley was in reality a bunch of office parks and cul-de-sacs where subdivision-grade homes went for $ 2 million. The more picturesque and urban San Francisco was being consumed by rising rents and their attendant homeless problems.
Complaining about the cost of living, and the region's inability to fix it, had become something of a side hustle for many Bay Area chief executives. And after Memo, Mr. Sramek started looking for a big disruptive idea for them to fund.
"If we go back six or seven years, the popular hit in the press was 'Silicon Valley is not doing enough in the real world,"' he said. "And I was sitting there working on this."
Flannery Associates
Mr. Sramek likes to fish. The way he tells it, around 2016 he and his girlfriend (now wife) started making the one-hour drive from San Francisco to Rio Vista to catch bass on the Sacramento River. One of those trips, driving past pastures and grazing sheep, sparked an idea.
"What if you could start from scratch?" he said.
In a state whose agricultural bounty has historically been a function of moving water great distances, the area is something of an anachronism. For generations, families like the Mahoneys have practiced "dryland farming," which means they rely on rain, not irrigation.
The Mahoneys talk about this the same way they talk about their land and family: with an emphasis on tradition and the romance of continuity. Mr. Sramek described the land as "not prime."
The phrase angered several farmers at the Rio Vista town meeting, but in dollar terms it's accurate. At the time of Mr. Sramek's first fishing trip, land in the area was trading around $ 4,000 an acre -- a pittance compared with a Central Valley almond orchard (about $ 10,000 to $ 55,000 per acre) or a Napa Valley vineyard (anywhere from $ 50,000 to more than $ 500,000 per acre), according to the California chapter of the American Society of Farm Managers and Rural Appraisers.
Mr. Sramek starting doing research and soon found himself immersed in zoning policy and poring over old development maps dreaming of a start-up city. Investors were initially reluctant, he said, so he borrowed $ 1 million from friends and banks to put a deposit on a handful of properties, then hired consultants and land-use lawyers to assess what it would take to build there.
By now Mr. Sramek was well networked. He had done a fellowship at Y Combinator, the start-up incubator. He was in a book club with partners at Sequoia Capital. He was friends with billionaires like Patrick and John Collison, the sibling founders of the payments company Stripe.
The Collisons became two of Flannery's first investors. Mr. Andreessen and Chris Dixon, also of the Andreessen Horowitz venture capital firm, joined soon after, along with Mr. Moritz, who was Sequoia's chairman. All of them helped Mr. Sramek solicit others.
In a 2017 note to potential investors I obtained, Mr. Moritz wrote that if "done right" the project could help relieve congestion and housing prices in the Bay Area, and mused about the potential to experiment with new kinds of governance. It could also be spectacularly profitable, he said: Mr. Moritz estimated that investors could make 10 times their money even if they just got the land rezoned, and far more if and when it was developed.
Flannery Associates was named for Flannery Road, which borders the first property Mr. Sramek bought. Aside from that detail and its Delaware incorporation, residents and public officials could find almost nothing about its shareholders or intentions. Just that it wanted a lot of land, didn't care about the price and was willing to strong-arm owners when money didn't work.
In addition to working their own land, many farmers in the area lease parcels where they grow crops and graze animals. As Flannery consumed more and more property, people like Ian Anderson found themselves in the uncomfortable position of trying to rebuff its offers for parcels they owned -- while at the same time farming land they rented from Flannery.
Mr. Anderson learned how vulnerable he was after a local newspaper quoted him saying that the company had begun insisting on short-term leases and that this made it increasingly difficult to farm. Later, Flannery's lawyer sent him a letter informing him that it was terminating multiple leases covering thousands of acres.
"The Andersons have made it clear that they do not like Flannery," according to the letter. "The Andersons are of course free to have their opinions, but they cannot expect that Flannery will continue to just be a punching bag and lease property to them."
Representative John Garamendi, a Democrat from the area, characterized moves like this as "mobster techniques." The bigger concern was that Flannery's holdings had grown into a giant mass that butted against Travis Air Force Base on three sides.
The proximity to the base alarmed both the county and the Department of Defense, which prompted local officials and members of Congress to call for investigations. The investigations elevated the mystery of Flannery Associates into a mainstay on local TV news.
"The F.B.I. was investigating this, the State Department was investigating this, the Treasury Department was investigating this -- all the local electeds were trying to get information and calling their legislators," said Representative Mike Thompson, another Democrat from the area.
The company remained silent.
Mr. Sramek said Flannery had operated in secret to prevent landowners from jacking up prices, and defended the lawsuits as just. He argued that while some farmers didn't want to sell, most had done so willingly -- at prices no other buyer could offer.
"We paid way over market value, and created hundreds of millionaires in the process," he said. "We are glad that we have been able to settle most of our disputes, and we are open to settling the remaining ones."
A Simple Case of Wealthy Landowners?
By 2023, Mr. Sramek and his investors were in deep. Flannery had spent some $ 900 million buying 60,000 acres. The first two rounds of funding, at about $ 10 million each, had ballooned to several more rounds at $ 100 million each. (Mr. Sramek said the company had now raised "more than $ 900 million" but would not be more specific.)
Big investors begot bigger investors, and the list expanded to a roster of Silicon Valley heavyweights including Mr. Hoffman and Ms. Powell Jobs.
The company's offers became so generous that many farmers decided they couldn't refuse.
The Mahoneys sold Flannery a few hundred acres early on. (Their land is owned by several different entities and hard to tally overall, but in the 1960s Ms. Mahoney's father told a newspaper that he had 16,000 acres in the area.) But as Flannery gobbled more of the land around them, Ms. Mahoney said, she realized that something big was happening and that their entire farming business could be at risk. So the family stopped selling to Flannery. The company persisted with more offers, however, improving terms and increasing prices to levels that would have netted tens of millions of dollars. The family continued to say no.
Flannery arrived while the Mahoneys were in the midst of transition. Over 150 years, the family's company, R. Emigh Livestock, had expanded from two dozen lambs to one of largest sheep farmers in California. Ms. Mahoney's father was in his 90s (he died last year) and she was passing leadership to her son Ryan, who said his wish was to stay there until he was in his 90s, too.
You wouldn't know it from her jeans or penchant for nostalgia, but Ms. Mahoney had spent her career running a corporation, one whose business was raising lambs and cattle. She was, like Mr. Sramek, a C.E.O.
And after years of back and forth, one thing Flannery's entreaties had made clear was that there was one property the Mahoneys owned that it coveted above the others: Goose Haven Ranch. But Goose Haven was the one the family was most protective of. It had been the center of the lambing operation long enough that the road leading up to it was designed for wagon traffic.
Elsewhere in the county, Flannery had started buying into farms by acquiring shares from family members who wanted out, then becoming what amounted to unwelcome partners with the ones who remained. Two of these arrangements led to lawsuits between Flannery and the other owners. Both settled, but one of them netted a trove of emails and text messages among several neighbors including the Mahoneys.
In May, Flannery used those messages to file an antitrust suit against the Mahoneys and several holdouts. The suit contended that the farmers were colluding to raise prices, describing them as "wealthy landowners who saw an opportunity to conspire, collude, price fix and illegally overcharge Flannery." It asked for $ 510 million in damages.
The complaint describes the messages (like Ms. Mahoney writing to a neighbor, "That's great that we can support each other!") as "a smoking gun" proving that the defendants did want to sell but at even higher prices than Flannery was offering.
In a joint motion to dismiss, lawyers for the Mahoneys and other defendants described Flannery's lawsuit as "a ham-fisted intimidation technique" designed to smother them with legal fees.
Even after being sued, the Mahoneys still had no idea who Flannery actually was.
The Campaign Apology Tour
In August, The New York Times broke the news of who was behind the purchases. Mr. Sramek confirmed his role, and soon topped his LinkedIn profile with a new title: chief executive of California Forever, the company's new name.
He has been in campaign mode ever since, meeting with elected officials, union leaders and environmental groups. California Forever has opened four offices across the county, and Solano's freeways are now plastered with California Forever billboards.
In a state where it can take years to get a duplex approved, Mr. Sramek seems to have calculated that his project is too big to fail. Developers, planners and lawyers I spoke to all expected the project to either never happen or take at least 20 years. Whether out of bluster, delusion or confidence, Mr. Sramek, who recently bought a house in nearby Fairfield, said he had promised his wife that their infant daughter would start school in the development he wanted to build.
He didn't find some secret hack that can make California an easier place to build. Rather, he believes the state's attitude toward growth is changing. Californians, he thinks, have grown frustrated -- with punishing housing costs, with homelessness, with the state's inability to complete projects like the high-speed rail line that was supposed to connect the Bay Area and Los Angeles but has stalled. So just maybe his will, and gobs of money, can create a new posture toward growth.
"There's a cultural moment where we realize the pendulum has gone too far," Mr. Sramek said. "We can't say we are about economic opportunity and working-class Californians are leaving the state every year."
Last year's event in Rio Vista was held at the end of lambing season in December. Before the meeting, I dropped by a barn with the Mahoneys where a group of "bummers" -- lambs born weak or to overburdened ewes -- were in sawdust pens drinking milk. They would be chops in less than a year, and Ms. Mahoney cooed to them between my questions.
I asked her a crass but obvious one: why the money from Mr. Sramek, those tens of millions, wasn't enticing.
"Everybody has their price, right?" she said. "I've heard that so many times. 'Everybody has their number -- what's your number?' I guess I haven't found it yet."
"When God calls us home, that's our number," Mr. Mahoney joked. "Totally different philosophy."
On Wednesday, Mr. Sramek returned to the American Legion post in Rio Vista. This time he had arrived as part of a kickoff event for the ballot initiative. Neighbors and protesters had returned but were prohibited from going inside, where slides of maps and renderings were presented to the press, and details about design were discussed.
The maps had a curious detail: On the edge of the proposed community's downtown was Goose Haven Ranch.
The night before the meeting, the Mahoneys sold it. They got about $ 23 million.
Photograph Top, Christine Mahoney and her husband, Dan, on the farmland in Rio Vista, Calif., that her family acquired in the 19th century. A company backed by tech billionaires has been buying up land in the area to construct a city of 400,000 people, part of which is shown in the rendering above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON WOJACK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; CALIFORNIA FOREVER) (BU4); Above, Solano County, Calif., the site of the proposed city. Right, one of many ads put up by the group behind the city plan. Below, clockwise from top: Solano County; Jan Sramek, the finance and tech veteran who concocted the city plan; and Ian Anderson, whose lease of farmland owned by Mr. Sramek's company was terminated after he publicly criticized the company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON WOJACK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) This article appeared in print on page BU4.

Subject: Agriculture; Farmers; Voters; Cities; Litigation; Farms

Location: Silicon Valley-California; California; United States--US; San Francisco California; Solano County California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/19/business/economy/flannery-california-forever-solano.html

Title: Snapping Up Farmers' Land to Create a City:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 21, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916783025

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/snapping-up-farmers-land-create-city/docview/2916783025/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Farmers Had What the Billionaires Wanted

Author: Dougherty, Conor

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/farmers-had-what-billionaires-wanted/docview/2916697219/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
RIO VISTA, Calif. — When Jan Sramek walked into the American Legion post in Rio Vista, California, for a town hall meeting last month, everyone in the room knew that he was really just there to get yelled at.
For six years a mysterious company called Flannery Associates, which Sramek controlled, had upended the town of 10,000 by spending hundreds of millions of dollars trying to buy every farm in the area. Flannery made multimillionaires out of some owners and sparked feuds among others. It sued a group of holdouts who had refused its above-market offers, on the grounds that they were colluding for more.
The company was Rio Vista’s main source of gossip, yet until a few weeks before the meeting no one in the room had heard of Sramek or knew what Flannery was up to. Residents worried it could be a front for foreign spies looking to surveil a nearby Air Force base. One theory held the company was acquiring land for a new Disneyland.
Now the truth was standing in front of them. And somehow it was weirder than the rumors.
The truth was that Sramek wanted to build a city from the ground up, in an agricultural region whose defining feature was how little it had changed. The idea would have been treated as a joke if it weren’t backed by a group of Silicon Valley billionaires who included Michael Moritz, a venture capitalist; Reid Hoffman, an investor and co-founder of LinkedIn; and Laurene Powell Jobs, the founder of the Emerson Collective and the widow of the Apple co-founder Steve Jobs. They and others from the technology world had spent some $900 million on farmland in a demonstration of their dead seriousness about Sramek’s vision.
Rio Vista, part of Solano County, is technically within the San Francisco Bay Area, but its bait shops and tractor suppliers and Main Street lined with American flags can feel a state away. Sramek’s plan was billed as a salve for San Francisco’s urban housing problems. But paving over ranches to build a city of 400,000 wasn’t the sort of idea you’d expect a group of farmers to be enthused about.
As the TV cameras anticipated, a group of protesters had gathered in the parking lot to shake signs near pickup trucks. Inside, a crowd in jeans and boots sat in chairs, looking skeptical.
Sramek, 36, who is from the Czech Republic and had come to California to try to make it in startups, was now the center of their economy. Flannery had become the largest landowner in the region, amassing an area twice the size of San Francisco.
Christine Mahoney, 63, whose great-grandfather established her family’s farm when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, said that, like it or not, Sramek was now her neighbor. Mahoney had refused several offers for her land, and Flannery’s lawsuit — an antitrust case in federal court — described her as a conspirator who was out to bilk his company.
But she had never met the man in person, so she came to say hello.
“You might be asking yourself, ‘Why is this guy with a funny accent here?’” Sramek began the meeting.
He spent about 20 minutes pitching his plans before submitting to questions and resentments. People accused him of pushing small farms out of business. They said Flannery’s money was turning families against each other.
“Good neighbors don’t sue their neighbors!” one man yelled to applause.
Sramek, who is tall, intense and practiced in the art of holding eye contact, stayed up front after the meeting to glad-hand.
When Mahoney and her husband, Dan, 65, approached him, Sramek said, “Hi, Christine!” as if they had met several times before and he wasn’t currently suing her.
“I’d like to welcome you as our neighbor, but it’s kind of difficult,” Christine Mahoney said.
She talked about how much stress the lawsuit had put on her family.
Sramek nodded, as if she were talking about someone else, not him. Then he asked the couple to dinner. The Mahoneys agreed.
Going to the Ballot
One key difference between building an app and building a city is that a city requires permission. On Wednesday, Sramek’s company officially filed a proposed ballot initiative that would ask voters to buy in. Specifically, the measure aims to amend a long-standing “orderly growth” ordinance that protects Solano County’s farms and open space by steering development to urban areas.
Solano’s residents have consistently backed the city-centered-growth laws, so Sramek’s project is bound to be controversial. To overcome resistance, the initiative includes a long list of promises like new roads, money to invest in downtowns across the county and a $400 million fund to help Solano residents buy homes.
Sramek also revealed that he hoped to build directly next to Rio Vista, with a half-mile-wide park separating the old farming town from the new tech city. Renderings that his company released this month portray a medium-density community that is roughly the opposite of a subdivision, with a grid of row houses that lie a short walk from shops and have easy access to bike lanes and bus stops. He said the first phase of building could accommodate about 50,000 people.
Even if the measure gets on the ballot and passes, it will be one step on a path requiring approval from county, state and federal agencies — a long list of ifs that explains why large projects are usually measured in decades, not the few years that Sramek seems to imagine.
It’s a crucial step, however. Beyond amending the ordinance, a win would pressure county officials to work with Sramek, so opponents are already lining up. A group called Solano Together, a mix of agricultural and environmental organizations like Greenbelt Alliance, recently created a website that characterizes the project as harmful sprawl that would destroy farms.
The fight is something of a throwback. Whether it was paving over San Fernando Valley orange groves to build out Los Angeles or ripping out apricot farms in what is now Silicon Valley, California became the nation’s biggest state and economy largely by trading open and agricultural land for population and development.
That shifted in the 1960s and 1970s, when a backlash against the growth-first regime and its penchant for destroying landscapes helped create modern environmentalism. In the half-century since, this turn has been codified in laws that aim to restrict development to existing cities and their edges. It has protected farms and open space, but also helped drive up the cost of living by making housing scarcer and more expensive to build.
Sramek framed his proposal as a backlash to the backlash, part of an ideological project to revive Californians’ appetite for growth. If the state is serious about tackling its dire affordable housing problem, he argued, it doesn’t just have to build more housing in places like San Francisco and its suburbs — it also has to expand the urban footprint with new cities.
As a matter of policy, this is hard to dismiss. This is politics, however, so the bigger question is whether voters share his desire to return California to an era of expansion. And whether — after six years during which Sramek obfuscated his role in Flannery’s secret land acquisition, along with the company’s billionaire backers and true purpose, all while pursuing farmers with aggressive tactics and lawsuits — they find him trustworthy.
The Golden Boy vs. 1877
Christine and Dan Mahoney’s house looks onto a barn that says 1877, the year Christine Mahoney’s great-grandfather built it.
When I met the couple for an interview at their house last year, Christine Mahoney had decorated the dining table with black-and-white pictures of relatives in button dresses and bonnets. Later we drove along roads named for her ancestors.
Winding through the hills, Christine Mahoney ticked off parcels that belonged to the family, others that were owned by neighbors and more owned by Flannery. When I asked how she discerned the lines of ownership in an expanse of yellow grassland, she said: “You live here a hundred years.”
Sramek, meanwhile, talks about growth in moral terms, as if progress and wealth are simpatico and the most consequential people are those who build big things and a fortune along the way.
Driving near the Mahoneys’ ranch recently, through the same yellow hills, he posited that the mix of wealth and innovation that has exploded in the Bay Area has happened only a handful of times in history. (Florence, Paris, London, New York, Chicago and “maybe LA” were some others.) We were 60 miles from San Francisco in a place where the tallest structures are wind turbines, but his message was that the region could be an economic sun, and that bringing more people in the orbit was worthy of the trade-offs.
An immigrant and striver who at 22 was a co-author of a book called “Racing Towards Excellence,” Sramek got his first spurt of publicity at Goldman Sachs, where the financial press hailed him as a “Golden Boy” trader and considered it newsworthy when he left, after two years of employment, to chase a bigger dream in startups.
His tech career was less sparkling. After Goldman, he moved from London to Zurich and started a corporate education company called Better. It operated for two years and prompted a move to San Francisco, where he founded a social media company, Memo, in 2015.
Memo was billed as a higher-minded version of Twitter and won praise from venture capitalist Marc Andreessen. That praise was delivered on Twitter instead of Memo, which was pretty much the story: Memo failed to rack up users and shut down after a year.
His failures aside, Sramek was smitten with the Bay Area’s culture of creative capitalism. He was less enamored with the actual place.
The mythical Silicon Valley was in reality a bunch of office parks and cul-de-sacs where subdivision-grade homes went for $2 million. The more picturesque and urban San Francisco was being consumed by rising rents and their attendant homeless problems.
Complaining about the cost of living, and the region’s inability to fix it, had become something of a side hustle for many Bay Area CEOs. And after Memo, Sramek started looking for a big disruptive idea for them to fund.
“If we go back six or seven years, the popular hit in the press was ‘Silicon Valley is not doing enough in the real world,’” he said. “And I was sitting there working on this.”
Flannery Associates
Sramek likes to fish. The way he tells it, around 2016 he and his girlfriend (now wife) started making the one-hour drive from San Francisco to Rio Vista to catch bass on the Sacramento River. One of those trips, driving past pastures and grazing sheep, sparked an idea.
“What if you could start from scratch?” he said.
In a state whose agricultural bounty has historically been a function of moving water great distances, the area is something of an anachronism. For generations, families like the Mahoneys have practiced “dryland farming,” which means they rely on rain, not irrigation.
The Mahoneys talk about this the same way they talk about their land and family: with an emphasis on tradition and the romance of continuity. Sramek described the land as “not prime.”
The phrase angered several farmers at the Rio Vista town meeting, but in dollar terms it’s accurate. At the time of Sramek’s first fishing trip, land in the area was trading around $4,000 an acre — a pittance compared with a Central Valley almond orchard (about $10,000 to $55,000 per acre) or a Napa Valley vineyard (anywhere from $50,000 to more than $500,000 per acre), according to the California chapter of the American Society of Farm Managers and Rural Appraisers.
Sramek starting doing research and soon found himself immersed in zoning policy and poring over old development maps dreaming of a startup city. Investors were initially reluctant, he said, so he borrowed $1 million from friends and banks to put a deposit on a handful of properties, then hired consultants and land-use lawyers to assess what it would take to build there.
By now Sramek was well networked. He had done a fellowship at Y Combinator, a startup incubator. He was in a book club with partners at Sequoia Capital. He was friends with billionaires like Patrick and John Collison, the sibling founders of the payments company Stripe.
The Collisons became two of Flannery’s first investors. Andreessen and Chris Dixon, also of the Andreessen Horowitz venture capital firm, joined soon after, along with Moritz, who was Sequoia’s chair. All of them helped Sramek solicit others.
In a 2017 note to potential investors I obtained, Moritz wrote that if “done right” the project could help relieve congestion and housing prices in the Bay Area, and mused about the potential to experiment with new kinds of governance. It could also be spectacularly profitable, he said: Moritz estimated that investors could make 10 times their money even if they just got the land rezoned, and far more if and when it was developed.
Flannery Associates was named for Flannery Road, which borders the first property Sramek bought. Aside from that detail and its Delaware incorporation, residents and public officials could find almost nothing about its shareholders or intentions. Just that it wanted a lot of land, didn’t care about the price and was willing to strong-arm owners when money didn’t work.
In addition to working their own land, many farmers in the area lease parcels where they grow crops and graze animals. As Flannery consumed more and more property, people like Ian Anderson found themselves in the uncomfortable position of trying to rebuff its offers for parcels they owned — while at the same time farming land they rented from Flannery.
Anderson learned how vulnerable he was after a local newspaper quoted him saying that the company had begun insisting on short-term leases and that this made it increasingly difficult to farm. Later, Flannery’s lawyer sent him a letter informing him that it was terminating multiple leases covering thousands of acres.
“The Andersons have made it clear that they do not like Flannery,” according to the letter. “The Andersons are of course free to have their opinions, but they cannot expect that Flannery will continue to just be a punching bag and lease property to them.”
Rep. John Garamendi, a Democrat from the area, characterized moves like this as “mobster techniques.” The bigger concern was that Flannery’s holdings had grown into a giant mass that butted against Travis Air Force Base on three sides.
The proximity to the base alarmed both the county and the Department of Defense, which prompted local officials and members of Congress to call for investigations. The investigations elevated the mystery of Flannery Associates into a mainstay on local TV news.
“The FBI was investigating this, the State Department was investigating this, the Treasury Department was investigating this — all the local electeds were trying to get information and calling their legislators,” said Rep. Mike Thompson, another Democrat from the area.
The company remained silent.
Sramek said Flannery had operated in secret to prevent landowners from jacking up prices, and defended the lawsuits as just. He argued that while some farmers didn’t want to sell, most had done so willingly — at prices no other buyer could offer.
“We paid way over market value, and created hundreds of millionaires in the process,” he said. “We are glad that we have been able to settle most of our disputes, and we are open to settling the remaining ones.”
A Simple Case of Wealthy Landowners?
By 2023, Sramek and his investors were in deep. Flannery had spent some $900 million buying 60,000 acres. The first two rounds of funding, at about $10 million each, had ballooned to several more rounds at $100 million each. (Sramek said the company had now raised “more than $900 million” but would not be more specific.)
Big investors begot bigger investors, and the list expanded to a roster of Silicon Valley heavyweights including Hoffman and Powell Jobs.
The company’s offers became so generous that many farmers decided they couldn’t refuse.
The Mahoneys sold Flannery a few hundred acres early on. (Their land is owned by several different entities and hard to tally overall, but in the 1960s Christine Mahoney’s father told a newspaper that he had 16,000 acres in the area.) But as Flannery gobbled more of the land around them, Christine Mahoney said, she realized that something big was happening and that their entire farming business could be at risk. So the family stopped selling to Flannery. The company persisted with more offers, however, improving terms and increasing prices to levels that would have netted tens of millions of dollars. The family continued to say no.
Flannery arrived while the Mahoneys were in the midst of transition. Over 150 years, the family’s company, R. Emigh Livestock, had expanded from two dozen lambs to one of largest sheep farmers in California. Christine Mahoney’s father was in his 90s (he died last year) and she was passing leadership to her son Ryan, who said his wish was to stay there until he was in his 90s, too.
You wouldn’t know it from her jeans or penchant for nostalgia, but Christine Mahoney had spent her career running a corporation, one whose business was raising lambs and cattle. She was, like Sramek, a CEO.
And after years of back and forth, one thing Flannery’s entreaties had made clear was that there was one property the Mahoneys owned that it coveted above the others: Goose Haven Ranch. But Goose Haven was the one the family was most protective of. It had been the center of the lambing operation long enough that the road leading up to it was designed for wagon traffic.
Elsewhere in the county, Flannery had started buying into farms by acquiring shares from family members who wanted out, then becoming what amounted to unwelcome partners with the ones who remained. Two of these arrangements led to lawsuits between Flannery and the other owners. Both settled, but one of them netted a trove of emails and text messages among several neighbors including the Mahoneys.
In May, Flannery used those messages to file an antitrust suit against the Mahoneys and several holdouts. The suit contended that the farmers were colluding to raise prices, describing them as “wealthy landowners who saw an opportunity to conspire, collude, price fix and illegally overcharge Flannery.” It asked for $510 million in damages.
The complaint describes the messages (like Christine Mahoney writing to a neighbor, “That’s great that we can support each other!”) as “a smoking gun” proving that the defendants did want to sell but at even higher prices than Flannery was offering.
In a joint motion to dismiss, lawyers for the Mahoneys and other defendants described Flannery’s lawsuit as “a ham-fisted intimidation technique” designed to smother them with legal fees.
Even after being sued, the Mahoneys still had no idea who Flannery actually was.
The Campaign Apology Tour
In August, The New York Times broke the news of who was behind the purchases. Sramek confirmed his role, and soon topped his LinkedIn profile with a new title: CEO of California Forever, the company’s new name.
He has been in campaign mode ever since, meeting with elected officials, union leaders and environmental groups. California Forever has opened four offices across the county, and Solano’s freeways are now plastered with California Forever billboards.
In a state where it can take years to get a duplex approved, Sramek seems to have calculated that his project is too big to fail. Developers, planners and lawyers I spoke to all expected the project to either never happen or take at least 20 years. Whether out of bluster, delusion or confidence, Sramek, who recently bought a house in nearby Fairfield, said he had promised his wife that their infant daughter would start school in the development he wanted to build.
He didn’t find some secret hack that can make California an easier place to build. Rather, he believes the state’s attitude toward growth is changing. Californians, he thinks, have grown frustrated — with punishing housing costs, with homelessness, with the state’s inability to complete projects like the high-speed rail line that was supposed to connect the Bay Area and Los Angeles but has stalled. So just maybe his will, and gobs of money, can create a new posture toward growth.
“There’s a cultural moment where we realize the pendulum has gone too far,” Sramek said. “We can’t say we are about economic opportunity and working-class Californians are leaving the state every year.”
Last year’s event in Rio Vista was held at the end of lambing season in December. Before the meeting, I dropped by a barn with the Mahoneys where a group of “bummers” — lambs born weak or to overburdened ewes — were in sawdust pens drinking milk. They would be chops in less than a year, and Christine Mahoney cooed to them between my questions.
I asked her a crass but obvious one: why the money from Sramek, those tens of millions, wasn’t enticing.
“Everybody has their price, right?” she said. “I’ve heard that so many times. ‘Everybody has their number — what’s your number?’ I guess I haven’t found it yet.”
“When God calls us home, that’s our number,” Dan Mahoney joked. “Totally different philosophy.”
On Wednesday, Sramek returned to the American Legion post in Rio Vista. This time he had arrived as part of a kickoff event for the ballot initiative. Neighbors and protesters had returned but were prohibited from going inside, where slides of maps and renderings were presented to the press, and details about design were discussed.
The maps had a curious detail: On the edge of the proposed community’s downtown, was Goose Haven Ranch.
The night before the meeting, the Mahoneys sold it. They got about $23 million.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Agriculture; Farmers; Voters; Cities; Litigation; Farms

Location: Silicon Valley-California; California; New York; United States--US; San Francisco California; Solano County California

Identifier / keyword: Immigration And Emigration; Y Combinator; California Forever Lp; Law And Legislation; Disneyland (Anaheim, Calif); Banking And Financial Institutions; Military Bases And Installations; Memo (Mobile App); Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Delaware; Venture Capital; Nineteen Hundred Sixties; Mobile Applications; Agriculture And Farming; Economic Conditions And Trends; Linkedin Corporation; Relocation Of Business; Careers And Professions; Maps; Sramek, Jan (Entrepreneur); Collison, John; Elections; Amusement And Theme Parks; American Legion; Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Sheep; Referendums; Sacramento River (Calif); Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Hayes, Rutherford Birchard; Thompson, Michael (1951 ); California; Andreessen Horowitz; Travis Air Force Base (Calif); Suits And Litigation (Civil); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Silicon Valley Bank; Environment; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Social Media; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Jobs, Steven P; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Defense Department; Letters; Czech Republic; Zoning; Scholarships And Fellowships; Wind Power; Organized Labor; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Dixon, Chris (1972 ); Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Moritz, Michael Jonathan; Twitter; Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; Napa (Calif); San Francisco (Calif); Polls And Public Opinion; Dating And Relationships; Zurich (Switzerland); Area Planning And Renewal; Stocks And Bonds; Lamb; Newspapers; Simple Finance Technology Corp; Emerson Collective; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; San Fernando Valley (Calif); Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Andreessen, Marc L; Silicon Valley (Calif); Land Use Policies; Central Valley (Calif); High Net Worth Individuals; Ranches; Sequoia Capital; Homeless Persons; Stripe Inc; Compensation For Damages (Law); Jobs, Laurene Powell; Sacramento (Calif); Business; Chicago (Ill); Solano County (Calif); Roads And Traffic; Wines; Appointments An d Executive Changes; United States Economy; Urban Areas; Start Ups; New York Times; Flannery Associates; Books And Literature

Title: The Farmers Had What the Billionaires Wanted

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 20, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-20T17:15:09Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916697219

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/farmers-had-what-billionaires-wanted/docview/2916697219/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Mass Layoffs Bring Turmoil To Sports Bible: [Sports Desk]

Author: Draper, Kevin; Mullin, Benjamin

Publication info: Draper, Kevin; Mullin, Benjamin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mass-layoffs-bring-turmoil-sports-bible/docview/2916553201/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The announcement on Friday left in doubt what lies ahead for the venerable publication, with some staff members dismissed immediately and others told they would keep their jobs for at least 90 days.
Sports Illustrated, the venerable bible of sports journalism, has been in decline for years, as the internet annihilated print magazines and cost-cutting turned the weekly publication into a monthly and whittled its staff. But on Friday, the magazine received perhaps its toughest blow yet.
The company that publishes Sports Illustrated said in an email to employees that it was laying off many of them, leaving in doubt what lies ahead for the publication.
The move came after the Arena Group, which publishes the magazine and website under a complicated management structure, had its license to operate the publication revoked.
Reporters and editors for Sports Illustrated were asked on Friday to attend a Zoom call at 2 p.m. Eastern time. It lasted just seven minutes. On the call, Jay Frankl, the Arena Group's newly hired chief business transformation officer, said, "We will continue to produce the Sports Illustrated brand and online content until the situation is fully resolved," according to a recording of the meeting heard by The New York Times. No questions were taken.
Some Sports Illustrated staff members received emails with immediate layoff notices, while others were told in further Zoom meetings that they would keep their jobs for at least 90 days. (Roughly 100 journalists work for Sports Illustrated.) Arena Group's executives told Sports Illustrated staff members they planned on continuing to publish the magazine and website, despite having their license to operate the publication revoked. But it was not immediately clear how that would work. It was also unclear whether the magazine's owner, Authentic Brands Group, would strike a new agreement with the Arena Group or find a new company to operate it.
But it seems certain that even if Sports Illustrated survives in some form, it will be severely diminished.
The mood among staff members in the wake of the layoff announcement was a mix of anger, frustration and confusion. Journalists at Sports Illustrated texted and messaged one another on Slack, unsure in some cases who had been laid off, and what the ultimate fate of the magazine would be.
For decades, Sports Illustrated was a weekly must-read for sports fans and a financial engine for the Time Inc. empire. It once had over three million subscribers, and its writing, reporting and photography were considered the pinnacle of sports journalism. Landing on the cover was the most coveted endorsement an athlete could receive, even well into the television and internet eras. And its annual swimsuit issue was a pop culture phenomenon.
"I think it is one of the best magazines to ever exist, with some of the best photographers, writers and editors that have ever been in one building," said Rick Reilly, who for years wrote the magazine's popular backpage column. He added, "If it is really dead, it has kind of been dying."
Sports Illustrated has indeed been in trouble for years. It struggled to shift to the digital media world, and it was hampered by mismanagement.
Meredith purchased Time Inc., which included Sports Illustrated and other media assets, for $ 3 billion in 2017. Two years, later the media conglomerate sold Sports Illustrated to Authentic Brands Group, which is primarily a licensing company that acquires the rights to celebrity brands, for $ 110 million. It was bought for the value of the Sports Illustrated name and intellectual property, not because Authentic Brands Group intended to run a magazine.
The Arena Group -- which owns Men's Journal, Parade and TheStreet and was previously known as the Maven -- quickly struck a 10-year agreement with Authentic Brands Group to operate and publish Sports Illustrated. It paid at least $ 45 million for the right to do so, while Authentic Brands Group retained commercial rights for things like a potential Sports Illustrated-branded hotel in Michigan.
In a statement, Authentic Brands Group said it was committed to ensuring that "the brand of Sports Illustrated, which includes its editorial arm, continues to thrive as it has for the past nearly 70 years."
The Arena Group is in negotiations with Authentic Brands Group, and plans to continue to publish Sports Illustrated, said Rachael Fink, an Arena Group spokeswoman. "We hope to be the company to take SI forward but if not, we are confident that someone will," she said in a statement.
Over the past decade, Sports Illustrated's newsroom has shrunk. The company's last remaining staff photographers -- the "illustrated" in Sports Illustrated -- were let go in 2015, and several rounds of layoffs followed. The magazine, once published weekly, now comes out monthly. Many of the stories on its website are now written by little-paid contractors.
Despite those changes, the publication's digital audience has grown steadily. In December, Sports Illustrated drew more than 50 million visitors, according to Comscore, doubling its audience from four years earlier.
The layoffs at the magazine are the latest piece of bad news for the publishing industry, whose fortunes have gone from bad to bleak in recent months. Storied publications like The Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post, which are owned by deep-pocketed billionaires, have slashed their newsrooms over the last year as advertising revenue dried up and attracting new online subscribers proved elusive. Even startups that were once hailed as the future of the media industry -- like BuzzFeed and Vice -- have abandoned or sharply curtailed their news gathering efforts as investors soured on digital publishing.
The union representing Sports Illustrated confirmed that the Arena Group was laying off many Sports Illustrated employees.
"This is another difficult day in what has been a difficult four years for Sports Illustrated under Arena Group (previously the Maven) stewardship," the union said in a statement. "We are calling on ABG to ensure the continued publication of SI and allow it to serve our audience in the way it has for nearly 70 years."
It has been a particularly tumultuous several months at Sports Illustrated. In August, Manoj Bhargava, the entrepreneur behind the 5-Hour Energy drink, agreed to buy a major stake in the Arena Group, raising hopes that he might provide a measure of stability.
But shortly after Mr. Bhargava agreed to buy the stake, Sports Illustrated was thrown into chaos. Several of the Arena Group's senior executives were forced out of the company, including its chief executive, Ross Levinsohn; its president, Rob Barrett; its chief operating officer, Andrew Kraft; and its general counsel, Julie Fenster.
In November, reports circulated that Sports Illustrated had published product reviews under fake author names, seemingly generated by artificial intelligence, which the Arena Group blamed on a vendor.
"My god, they had A.I. writers with backstories, robots they were trying to pass off," Mr. Reilly said, before invoking renowned Sports Illustrated writers. "This is a place that hired Jim Murray and Dan Jenkins!"
The situation got worse after that. In early January, the Arena Group failed to make a $ 3.75 million payment to Authentic Brands Group, breaching its licensing agreement. Days later, Mr. Bhargava resigned as its interim chief executive officer, and the company signed an agreement with FTI Consulting to help turn the business around.
Things came to a head on Thursday, when Authentic Brands Group sent Arena Group a letter terminating the Sports Illustrated license, according to public filings, setting off an immediate $ 45 million payment to Authentic Brands Group. The same day, Arena Group announced it was cutting one-third of its work force.
Mr. Levinsohn -- who himself oversaw cuts to Sports Illustrated's newsroom amid industry headwinds -- resigned from Arena's board on Friday. He reacted to news of the layoffs on LinkedIn, calling them "one of the most disappointing things I've ever witnessed in my professional life."
A spokesman for Mr. Bhargava, Steve Janisse, said in a statement that Arena Group was in "active negotiations" with Authentic Brands.
"And we aren't the only ones," Mr. Janisse wrote. "They have been approached by others as well. Based on this interest, we expect that the great institution of Sports Illustrated will continue, survive and grow."
In 2020, shares of the Arena Group traded for as much as $ 14.20. On Friday, they were trading for under $ 1.
Photograph The Arena Group, which publishes the magazine under a complicated structure, recently had its license to operate revoked. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TAGGART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) This article appeared in print on page A1, A19.

Subject: Journalism; Agreements; Audiences; Magazines; Startups; Employment; Executives; Resignations; Licensing; Layoffs

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Employment Executives Resignations Licensing Layoffs

Company / organization: Name: Time Inc; NAICS: 513120; Name: Sports Illustrated; NAICS: 513120; Name: Authentic Brands Group; NAICS: 5331 10; Name: Arena Group; NAICS: 711310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/19/business/media/sports-illustrated-mass-layoffs.html

Title: Mass Layoffs Bring Turmoil To Sports Bible:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 20, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916553201

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mass-layoffs-bring-turmoil-sports-bible/docview/2916553201/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sports Illustrated Thrown Into Chaos With Mass Layoffs

Author: Draper, Kevin; Mullin, Benjamin

Publication info: Draper, Kevin; Mullin, Benjamin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sports-illustrated-thrown-into-chaos-with-mass/docview/2916490607/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Sports Illustrated, the venerable bible of sports journalism, has been in decline for years, as the internet annihilated print magazines and cost-cutting turned the weekly publication into a monthly and whittled its staff. But on Friday, the magazine received perhaps its toughest blow yet.
The company that publishes Sports Illustrated said in an email to employees that it was laying off many of them, leaving in doubt what lies ahead for the publication.
The move came after the Arena Group, which publishes the magazine and website under a complicated management structure, had its license to operate the publication revoked.
Reporters and editors for Sports Illustrated were asked Friday to attend a Zoom call at 2 p.m. Eastern time. It lasted just seven minutes. On the call, Jay Frankl, the Arena Group’s newly hired chief business transformation officer, said, “We will continue to produce the Sports Illustrated brand and online content until the situation is fully resolved,” according to a recording of the meeting heard by The New York Times. No questions were taken.
Some Sports Illustrated staff members received emails with immediate layoff notices, while others were told in further Zoom meetings that they would keep their jobs for at least 90 days. (Roughly 100 journalists work for Sports Illustrated.) Arena Group’s executives told Sports Illustrated staff members they planned on continuing to publish the magazine and website, despite having their license to operate the publication revoked. But it was not immediately clear how that would work. It was also unclear whether the magazine’s owner, Authentic Brands Group, would strike a new agreement with the Arena Group or find a new company to operate it.
But it seems certain that even if Sports Illustrated survives in some form, it will be severely diminished.
The mood among staff members in the wake of the layoff announcement was a mix of anger, frustration and confusion. Journalists at Sports Illustrated texted and messaged one another on Slack, unsure in some cases who had been laid off, and what the ultimate fate of the magazine would be.
For decades, Sports Illustrated was a weekly must-read for sports fans and a financial engine for the Time Inc. empire. It once had over 3 million subscribers, and its writing, reporting and photography were considered the pinnacle of sports journalism. Landing on the cover was the most coveted endorsement an athlete could receive, even well into the television and internet eras. And its annual swimsuit issue was a pop culture phenomenon.
“I think it is one of the best magazines to ever exist, with some of the best photographers, writers and editors that have ever been in one building,” said Rick Reilly, who for years wrote the magazine’s popular backpage column. He added, “If it is really dead, it has kind of been dying.”
Sports Illustrated has indeed been in trouble for years. It struggled to shift to the digital media world, and it was hampered by mismanagement.
Meredith purchased Time Inc., which included Sports Illustrated and other media assets, for $3 billion in 2017. Two years later, the media conglomerate sold Sports Illustrated to Authentic Brands Group, which is primarily a licensing company that acquires the rights to celebrity brands, for $110 million. It was bought for the value of the Sports Illustrated name and intellectual property, not because Authentic Brands Group intended to run a magazine.
The Arena Group — which owns Men’s Journal, Parade and TheStreet and was previously known as the Maven — quickly struck a 10-year agreement with Authentic Brands Group to operate and publish Sports Illustrated. It paid at least $45 million for the right to do so, while Authentic Brands Group retained commercial rights for things like a potential Sports Illustrated-branded hotel in Michigan.
In a statement, Authentic Brands Group said it was committed to ensuring that “the brand of Sports Illustrated, which includes its editorial arm, continues to thrive as it has for the past nearly 70 years.”
The Arena Group is in negotiations with Authentic Brands Group, and plans to continue to publish Sports Illustrated, said Rachael Fink, an Arena Group spokesperson. “We hope to be the company to take SI forward but if not, we are confident that someone will,” she said in a statement.
Over the past decade, Sports Illustrated’s newsroom has shrunk. The company’s last remaining staff photographers — the “illustrated” in Sports Illustrated — were let go in 2015, and several rounds of layoffs followed. The magazine, once published weekly, now comes out monthly. Many of the stories on its website are now written by little-paid contractors.
Despite those changes, the publication’s digital audience has grown steadily. In December, Sports Illustrated drew more than 50 million visitors, according to Comscore, doubling its audience from four years earlier.
The layoffs at the magazine are the latest piece of bad news for the publishing industry, whose fortunes have gone from bad to bleak in recent months. Storied publications like the Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post, which are owned by deep-pocketed billionaires, have slashed their newsrooms over the last year as advertising revenue dried up and attracting new online subscribers proved elusive. Even startups that were once hailed as the future of the media industry — like BuzzFeed and Vice — have abandoned or sharply curtailed their newsgathering efforts as investors soured on digital publishing.
The union representing Sports Illustrated confirmed that the Arena Group was laying off many Sports Illustrated employees.
“This is another difficult day in what has been a difficult four years for Sports Illustrated under Arena Group (previously the Maven) stewardship,” the union said in a statement. “We are calling on ABG to ensure the continued publication of SI and allow it to serve our audience in the way it has for nearly 70 years.”
It has been a particularly tumultuous several months at Sports Illustrated. In August, Manoj Bhargava, the entrepreneur behind the 5-Hour Energy drink, agreed to buy a major stake in the Arena Group, raising hopes that he might provide a measure of stability.
But shortly after Bhargava agreed to buy the stake, Sports Illustrated was thrown into chaos. Several of the Arena Group’s senior executives were forced out of the company, including its CEO, Ross Levinsohn; its president, Rob Barrett; its chief operating officer, Andrew Kraft; and its general counsel, Julie Fenster.
In November, reports circulated that Sports Illustrated had published product reviews under fake author names, seemingly generated by artificial intelligence, which the Arena Group blamed on a vendor.
“My God, they had AI writers with backstories, robots they were trying to pass off,” Reilly said, before invoking renowned Sports Illustrated writers. “This is a place that hired Jim Murray and Dan Jenkins!”
The situation got worse after that. In early January, the Arena Group failed to make a $3.75 million payment to Authentic Brands Group, breaching its licensing agreement. Days later, Bhargava resigned as its interim CEO, and the company signed an agreement with FTI Consulting to help turn the business around.
Things came to a head Thursday, when Authentic Brands Group sent Arena Group a letter terminating the Sports Illustrated license, according to public filings, setting off an immediate $45 million payment to Authentic Brands Group. The same day, Arena Group announced it was cutting one-third of its workforce.
Levinsohn — who himself oversaw cuts to Sports Illustrated’s newsroom amid industry headwinds — resigned from Arena’s board Friday. He reacted to news of the layoffs on LinkedIn, calling them “one of the most disappointing things I’ve ever witnessed in my professional life.”
A spokesperson for Bhargava, Steve Janisse, said in a statement that Arena Group was in “active negotiations” with Authentic Brands.
“And we aren’t the only ones,” Janisse wrote. “They have been approached by others as well. Based on this interest, we expect that the great institution of Sports Illustrated will continue, survive and grow.”
In 2020, shares of the Arena Group traded for as much as $14.20. On Friday, they were trading for under $1.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Agreements; Journalism; Audiences; Magazines; Startups; Product reviews; Resignations; Licensing; Chief executive officers; Layoffs

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Resignations Licensing Chief executive officers Layoffs

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Time Inc; NAICS: 513120; Name: Sports Illustrated; NAICS: 513120; Name: Authentic Brands Group; NAICS: 533110; Name: Arena Group; NAICS: 711310

Identifier / keyword: Slack Technologies Inc; Photography; Meredith Publishing Group; Hiring And Promotion; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Book Trade And Publishing; Executives And Management (Theory); Stocks And Bonds; Authentic Brands Group; Labor And Jobs; Media; Sports Illustrated; Business; Conflicts Of Interest; Videophones And Videoconferencing; Washington Post; Linkedin Corporation; Buzzfeed Inc; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Time Inc; Los Angeles (Calif); Entrepreneurship; Maven Coalition Inc; News And News Media; Writing And Writers; Jenkins, Dan; Newspapers; Magazines; Levinsohn, Ross; Athletics And Sports; Zoom Video Communications; Los Angeles Times; Appointments And Executive Changes; Start Ups; New York Times

Title: Sports Illustrated Thrown Into Chaos With Mass Layoffs

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 19, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-19T22:56:52Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2916490607

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sports-illustrated-thrown-into-chaos-with-mass/docview/2916490607/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Another DeSantis Shake-Up Opens Wider Path for Haley in New Hampshire: [National Desk]

Author: Goldmacher, Shane; Browning, Kellen; Haberman, Maggie; Nehamas, Nicholas

Publication info: Goldmacher, Shane; Browning, Kellen; Haberman, Maggie; Nehamas, Nicholas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/another-desantis-shake-up-opens-wider-path-haley/docview/2915846884/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ron DeSantis's super PAC began layoffs on the same day he signaled he would largely bypass New Hampshire's primary election and train his efforts on South Carolina.
Straining to recover after a bruising defeat in Iowa, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and his allies moved on Wednesday to shake up his operation yet again, with his super PAC carrying out layoffs and the campaign signaling that it would largely bypass New Hampshire's primary election next week in favor of competing in South Carolina.
The change in strategy appeared to set up the one-on-one contest in New Hampshire that Nikki Haley has been hoping for against former President Donald J. Trump, who leads in polls but is more vulnerable in the moderate state than in socially conservative Iowa. At the same time, the shift could put new pressure on Ms. Haley in South Carolina, where she once served as governor.
The maneuvering may not ultimately make much of a dent in a race in which Mr. Trump has dominated polling, won the Iowa caucuses on Monday by a staggering 30 percentage points and spent Wednesday in court for one of his many legal cases, where a judge threatened to kick him out for being unruly. But it changed the calculations for his remaining Republican rivals.
As Mr. DeSantis's team licked its wounds on Wednesday, his super PAC, Never Back Down, trimmed operations in several places, including Nevada. Other staff members were also laid off, including almost the entire online "war room" team, a person with knowledge of the matter said. Those who were cut had their email accounts immediately suspended. It was unclear how many people in all lost their jobs.
Mr. DeSantis also began moving a majority of his campaign staff -- a separate group -- to South Carolina to prepare for its Feb. 24 primary, according to a senior campaign official, who insisted on anonymity. And rather than campaign exclusively in New Hampshire this week, the final stretch before the primary election on Jan. 23, Mr. DeSantis will stump in South Carolina over the weekend, hoping that his conservative message will better align with primary voters.
His campaign on Wednesday framed the decision as a chance to deal a knockout blow to Ms. Haley.
"When Nikki Haley fails to win her home state, she'll be finished and this will be a two-person race," Andrew Romeo, a campaign spokesman, said in a statement. "We're wasting no time in taking the fight directly to Haley on her home turf."
But the move showed that Mr. DeSantis was all but giving up on competing in New Hampshire, where his poll numbers have been abysmal, trailing in the single digits far behind Mr. Trump and Ms. Haley.
Mr. DeSantis's schedule has been hectic. After campaigning in New Hampshire on Wednesday, he and his team have said he now plans to spend Thursday off the trail, hold more New Hampshire events on Friday and then travel to South Carolina for most of the weekend before returning to New Hampshire on Sunday.
In Derry, he still tried to play up his New Hampshire bona fides.
"We're excited to be here," he said after a well-practiced five-minute anecdote about his family's relationship to the Boston Red Sox, who are revered in New Hampshire. He went on to suggest that Ms. Haley's refusal to debate him in the state had played a part in his decision to back away.
"You know, we had planned to be here tomorrow night," he said. "They've always done a debate in New Hampshire a week before the primary. So I said I'm in. Of course, Trump hasn't debated, so he's not in, and Haley wouldn't debate either."
Speaking to reporters afterward, Mr. DeSantis tried to downplay his decision to travel to South Carolina.
It remained uncertain whether he might squeeze in a last-minute New Hampshire stop early next week before the state's primary on Tuesday, and Mr. Romeo declined to say whether Mr. DeSantis would be there on the day of the election. Neither the governor nor his super PAC has placed an advertisement in New Hampshire since Nov. 18, according to AdImpact, a media-tracking firm.
Ms. Haley's path in New Hampshire is now clearer. Even after she finished third in Iowa -- close behind Mr. DeSantis -- Ms. Haley declared that she had accomplished her goal of creating a one-on-one matchup with the former president.
"When you look at how we're doing in New Hampshire, in South Carolina and beyond, I can safely say tonight Iowa made this Republican primary a two-person race," she said after votes were tallied on Monday.
Olivia Perez-Cubas, a spokeswoman for Ms. Haley, responded to Mr. DeSantis's move with a quip: "South Carolina is a great state. We hope they enjoy their vacation time here."
Since December, Ms. Haley and her allies have pointed to the possibility of a one-on-one race in New Hampshire as an opportunity for an outright victory there.
Internal polling conducted last month in the state by Americans for Prosperity Action, a super PAC founded by the billionaire Koch family that is backing Ms. Haley's campaign, found that in a full field of Republican candidates, she trailed Mr. Trump by 45 percent to 32 percent.
But in a head-to-head matchup between Ms. Haley and Mr. Trump, without Mr. DeSantis, Vivek Ramaswamy or Chris Christie -- both of whom have since left the race -- the polling found Ms. Haley in a statistical tie with Mr. Trump, 48 percent to 45 percent.
Still, Mr. DeSantis's decision to spend less time in New Hampshire is not guaranteed to be good news for her. Supporters of Mr. DeSantis tend to be more conservative than Ms. Haley's moderate-leaning coalition, so those who jump ship from the Florida governor might vote for Mr. Trump instead.
CBS News earlier reported Mr. DeSantis's shift toward South Carolina.
Mr. DeSantis was denied his best chance at exposure in New Hampshire when Ms. Haley turned down two debates scheduled for Thursday and Sunday. Even the weather seemed to be against him there. A snowstorm and icy roads forced him to cancel two town halls in rural parts of the state on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, while Ms. Haley and Mr. Trump were able to go through with their events.
Mr. Trump was set to return to New Hampshire on Wednesday evening. He spent the morning in a Manhattan courthouse for his defamation trial, where the writer E. Jean Carroll testified that Mr. Trump had "shattered my reputation" by accusing her of lying about her claim that he raped her in a department store dressing room decades ago. Mr. Trump's disclaiming comments, loud enough for jurors to hear, prompted the judge in the case to threaten to throw him out of the room.
Even before it was clear that Mr. DeSantis was retreating from New Hampshire, his allies were trying to lower expectations.
Jason Osborne, the majority leader of New Hampshire's House of Representatives, who has endorsed Mr. DeSantis, said in an interview on Tuesday that the Florida governor had "nothing to lose" in New Hampshire.
"The expectations are already set so low," Mr. Osborne said. "Anything he does will be over expectations. There's only upside here."
Never Back Down's field operation in South Carolina is not nearly as extensive as the one it spent heavily to create in Iowa, where Mr. DeSantis staked many of his hopes and allowed the super PAC to take over many of the responsibilities of a traditional campaign.
The group has burned through cash, spending at least $ 30 million on its push to reach voters in person through door-knocking and canvassing in early-primary states, according to a person with knowledge of its efforts -- a figure that does not include additional tens of millions in television advertising.
Given that ambitious investment, Mr. DeSantis's defeat on Monday to Mr. Trump in Iowa was all the more devastating, and raised urgent new questions about how long his operation could financially sustain a bid and attract new donors.
One of those who was laid off at Never Back Down, George Andrews, who had been assigned as a caucus precinct operations director in Iowa but also listed himself on LinkedIn as a state director in California, posted on the career website that he had been let go.
"As of 6 am this morning, I learned I am now a free agent due to budget cuts beyond my control," Mr. Andrews wrote in a post on LinkedIn.
"I completely understand why this had to happen, harbor no ill will, and wish my former team great success as they attempt to bring back sanity to our party," he wrote. "What they are trying to accomplish for America is much greater than my termination as an individual employee."
An official with the group appeared to confirm the layoffs, saying that those affected were being paid through the end of January. The official, who did not speak on the record, added that the group was "evaluating and paring down" other consultants, vendors and some staff members who had been focused on various aspects of the group's work.
Scott Wagner, the chief executive of Never Back Down, issued a statement saying that the group continued to host events for Mr. DeSantis, but he did not address the question of layoffs.
"Never Back Down continues to host a slew of events on the ground for Gov. DeSantis," Mr. Wagner said. "We've mobilized several members of our robust Iowa team over to the other early primary states to help in these efforts."
Paul Mondello, 81, of Londonderry, who was at an event for Mr. DeSantis in Derry on Wednesday, said it was "kind of offensive to some degree" that the governor was not focusing on New Hampshire, but it would not shake his resolve to vote for him.
"For him to leave, it is a little bit of a punch," Mr. Mondello said. "I don't think you should give up."
Nick Corasaniti and Jonathan Swan contributed reporting.
Nick Corasaniti and Jonathan Swan contributed reporting.
Photograph Gov. Ron DeSantis did not address his decision to leave New Hampshire during a speech on Wednesday in Hampton, N.H. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TULLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Debates; Political action committees--PAC; State elections; Governors; Voters; Layoffs; Political advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs

Location: New Hampshire; South Carolina; United States--US; Florida; Iowa

People: DeSantis, Ron; Haley, Nikki

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/17/us/politics/desantis-layoffs-super-pac.html

Title: Another DeSantis Shake-Up Opens Wider Path for Haley in New Hampshire:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 18, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2915846884

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/another-desantis-shake-up-opens-wider-path-haley/docview/2915846884/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Shake-Up by a Desperate DeSantis Opens Wider Path for Haley in New Hampshire

Author: Goldmacher, Shane; Browning, Kellen; Haberman, Magg ie; Nehamas, Nicholas

Publication info: Goldmacher, Shane; Browning, Kellen; Haberman, Maggie; Nehamas, Nicholas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shake-up-desperate-desantis-opens-wider-path/docview/2915758425/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Straining to recover after a bruising defeat in Iowa, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and his allies moved on Wednesday to shake up his operation yet again, with his super political action committee carrying out layoffs and the campaign signaling that it would largely bypass New Hampshire’s primary election next week in favor of competing in South Carolina.
The change in strategy appeared to set up the one-on-one contest in New Hampshire that Nikki Haley has been hoping for against former President Donald Trump, who leads in polls but is more vulnerable in the moderate state than in socially conservative Iowa. At the same time, the shift could put new pressure on Haley in South Carolina, where she once served as governor.
The maneuvering may not ultimately make much of a dent in a race in which Trump has dominated polling, won the Iowa caucuses Monday by a staggering 30 percentage points and spent Wednesday in court for one of his many legal cases, where a judge threatened to kick him out for being unruly. But it changed the calculations for his remaining Republican rivals.
As DeSantis’ team licked its wounds Wednesday, his super PAC, Never Back Down, trimmed operations in several places, including Nevada. Other staff members were also laid off, including almost the entire online “war room” team, a person with knowledge of the matter said. Those who were cut had their email accounts immediately suspended. It was unclear how many people in all lost their jobs.
DeSantis also began moving a majority of his campaign staff — a separate group — to South Carolina to prepare for its Feb. 24 primary, according to a senior campaign official, who insisted on anonymity. And rather than campaign exclusively in New Hampshire this week, the final stretch before the primary election Jan. 23, DeSantis will stump in South Carolina over the weekend, hoping that his conservative message will better align with primary voters.
His campaign Wednesday framed the decision as a chance to deal a knockout blow to Haley.
“When Nikki Haley fails to win her home state, she’ll be finished and this will be a two-person race,” Andrew Romeo, a campaign spokesperson, said in a statement. “We’re wasting no time in taking the fight directly to Haley on her home turf.”
But the move showed that DeSantis was all but giving up on competing in New Hampshire, where his poll numbers have been abysmal, trailing in the single digits far behind Trump and Haley. DeSantis’ schedule has been hectic. After campaigning in New Hampshire on Wednesday, he now plans to spend Thursday off the trail, hold more New Hampshire events Friday and then travel to South Carolina.
DeSantis did not address his decision to prioritize South Carolina during speeches Wednesday in Hampton and Derry, New Hampshire, and did not take questions from reporters afterward.
In Derry, he still tried to play up his New Hampshire bona fides.
“We’re excited to be here,” he said after a well-practiced five-minute anecdote about his family’s relationship to the Boston Red Sox, who are revered in New Hampshire. He went on to suggest that Haley’s refusal to debate him in the state had played a part in his decision to back away.
“You know, we had planned to be here tomorrow night,” he said. “They’ve always done a debate in New Hampshire a week before the primary. So I said I’m in. Of course, Trump hasn’t debated, so he’s not in, and Haley wouldn’t debate either.”
It remained uncertain whether he might squeeze in a last-minute New Hampshire stop early next week before the state’s primary Tuesday, and Romeo declined to say whether DeSantis would be there on the day of the election. Neither the governor nor his super PAC has placed an advertisement in New Hampshire since Nov. 18, according to AdImpact, a media-tracking firm.
Haley’s path in New Hampshire is now clearer. Even after she finished third in Iowa — close behind DeSantis — Haley declared that she had accomplished her goal of creating a one-on-one matchup with the former president.
“When you look at how we’re doing in New Hampshire, in South Carolina and beyond, I can safely say tonight Iowa made this Republican primary a two-person race,” she said after votes were tallied Monday.
Olivia Perez-Cubas, a spokesperson for Haley, responded to DeSantis’ move with a quip: “South Carolina is a great state. We hope they enjoy their vacation time here.”
Since December, Haley and her allies have pointed to the possibility of a one-on-one race in New Hampshire as an opportunity for an outright victory there.
Internal polling conducted last month in the state by Americans for Prosperity Action, a super PAC founded by the billionaire Koch family that is backing Haley’s campaign, found that in a full field of Republican candidates, she trailed Trump by 45% to 32%.
But in a head-to-head matchup between Haley and Trump, without DeSantis, Vivek Ramaswamy or Chris Christie — both of whom have since left the race — the polling found Haley in a statistical tie with Trump, 48% to 45%.
Still, DeSantis’ decision to spend less time in New Hampshire is not guaranteed to be good news for her. Supporters of DeSantis tend to be more conservative than Haley’s moderate-leaning coalition, so those who jump ship from the Florida governor might vote for Trump instead.
CBS News earlier reported DeSantis’ shift toward South Carolina.
DeSantis was denied his best chance at exposure in New Hampshire when Haley turned down two debates scheduled for Thursday and Sunday. Even the weather seemed to be against him there. A snowstorm and icy roads forced him to cancel two town halls in rural parts of the state Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, while Haley and Trump were able to go through with their events.
Trump was set to return to New Hampshire on Wednesday evening. He spent the morning in a Manhattan courthouse for his defamation trial, where writer E. Jean Carroll testified that Trump had “shattered my reputation” by accusing her of lying about her claim that he raped her in a department store dressing room decades ago. Trump’s disclaiming comments, loud enough for jurors to hear, prompted the judge in the case to threaten to throw him out of the room.
Even before it was clear that DeSantis was retreating from New Hampshire, his allies were trying to lower expectations.
Jason Osborne, the majority leader of New Hampshire’s House of Representatives, who has endorsed DeSantis, said in an interview Tuesday that the Florida governor had “nothing to lose” in New Hampshire.
“The expectations are already set so low,” Osborne said. “Anything he does will be over expectations. There’s only upside here.”
Never Back Down’s field operation in South Carolina is not nearly as extensive as the one it spent heavily to create in Iowa, where DeSantis staked many of his hopes and allowed the super PAC to take over many of the responsibilities of a traditional campaign.
The group has burned through cash, spending at least $30 million on its push to reach voters in person through door-knocking and canvassing in early-primary states, according to a person with knowledge of its efforts — a figure that does not include additional tens of millions in television advertising.
Given that ambitious investment, DeSantis’ defeat Monday to Trump in Iowa was all the more devastating, and raised urgent new questions about how long his operation could financially sustain a bid and attract new donors.
One of those who was laid off at Never Back Down, George Andrews, who had been assigned as a caucus precinct operations director in Iowa but also listed himself on LinkedIn as a state director in California, posted on the career website that he had been let go.
“As of 6 am this morning, I learned I am now a free agent due to budget cuts beyond my control,” Andrews wrote in a post on LinkedIn.
“I completely understand why this had to happen, harbor no ill will, and wish my former team great success as they attempt to bring back sanity to our party,” he wrote. “What they are trying to accomplish for America is much greater than my termination as an individual employee.”
An official with the group appeared to confirm the layoffs, saying that those affected were being paid through the end of January.
The official, who did not speak on the record, added that the group was “evaluating and paring down” other consultants, vendors and some staff members who had been focused on various aspects of the group’s work.
Scott Wagner, the CEO of Never Back Down, issued a statement saying that the group continued to host events for DeSantis, but he did not address the question of layoffs.
“Never Back Down continues to host a slew of events on the ground for Gov. DeSantis,” Wagner said. “We’ve mobilized several members of our robust Iowa team over to the other early primary states to help in these efforts.”
Paul Mondello, 81, of Londonderry, New Hampshire, who was at an event for DeSantis in Derry on Wednesday, said it was “kind of offensive to some degree” that the governor was not focusing on New Hampshire, but it would not shake his resolve to vote for him.
“For him to leave, it is a little bit of a punch,” Mondello said. “I don’t think you should give up.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Debates; Political campaigns; Political action committees--PAC; State elections; Governors; Voters; Layoffs; Political advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs

Location: New Hampshire; South Carolina; United States--US; Florida; Iowa

People: DeSantis, Ron; Haley, Nikki

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Endorsements; Florida; United States; Relocation Of Business; Cbs Corporation; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Libel And Slander; Debates (Political); Boston Red Sox; Iowa; South Carolina; Cbs News; New Hampshire; Americans For Prosperity; Primaries And Caucuses; House Of Representatives; Christie, Christopher J; Conservatism (Us Politics); Linkedin Corporation; Nevada; Budgets And Budgeting; Politics And Government; California; Presidential Election Of 2024; Political Action Committees; Layoffs And Job Reductions; United States Politics And Government; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Sex Crimes; State Legislatures; Carroll, E Jean; Polls And Public Opinion; Londonderry (Nh); Never Back Down Inc; Republican Party; Haley, Nikki R; Police Reform; Speeches And Statements; Trump, Donald J; Desantis, Ron; Browning, Kellen (Journalist); Campaign Finance; Nehamas, Nicholas

Title: Shake-Up by a Desperate DeSantis Opens Wider Path for Haley in New Hampshire

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 18, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-18T00:09:51Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2915758425

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspap ers/shake-up-desperate-desantis-opens-wider-path/docview/2915758425/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Another Shake-Up by DeSantis Opens a Path for Haley

Author: Goldmacher, Shane; Browning, Kellen; Haberman, Maggie; Nehamas, Nicholas

Publication info: Goldmacher, Shane; Browning, Kellen; Haberman, Maggie; Nehamas, Nicholas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/another-shake-up-desantis-opens-path-haley/docview/2915758418/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Straining to recover after a bruising defeat in Iowa, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and his allies moved on Wednesday to shake up his operation yet again, with his super political action committee carrying out layoffs and the campaign signaling that it would largely bypass New Hampshire’s primary election next week in favor of competing in South Carolina.
The change in strategy appeared to set up the one-on-one contest in New Hampshire that Nikki Haley has been hoping for against former President Donald Trump, who leads in polls but is more vulnerable in the moderate state than in socially conservative Iowa. At the same time, the shift could put new pressure on Haley in South Carolina, where she once served as governor.
The maneuvering may not ultimately make much of a dent in a race in which Trump has dominated polling, won the Iowa caucuses Monday by a staggering 30 percentage points and spent Wednesday in court for one of his many legal cases, where a judge threatened to kick him out for being unruly. But it changed the calculations for his remaining Republican rivals.
As DeSantis’ team licked its wounds Wednesday, his super PAC, Never Back Down, trimmed operations in several places, including Nevada. Other staff members were also laid off, including almost the entire online “war room” team, a person with knowledge of the matter said. Those who were cut had their email accounts immediately suspended. It was unclear how many people in all lost their jobs.
DeSantis also began moving a majority of his campaign staff — a separate group — to South Carolina to prepare for its Feb. 24 primary, according to a senior campaign official, who insisted on anonymity. And rather than campaign exclusively in New Hampshire this week, the final stretch before the primary election Jan. 23, DeSantis will stump in South Carolina over the weekend, hoping that his conservative message will better align with primary voters.
His campaign Wednesday framed the decision as a chance to deal a knockout blow to Haley.
“When Nikki Haley fails to win her home state, she’ll be finished and this will be a two-person race,” Andrew Romeo, a campaign spokesperson, said in a statement. “We’re wasting no time in taking the fight directly to Haley on her home turf.”
But the move showed that DeSantis was all but giving up on competing in New Hampshire, where his poll numbers have been abysmal, trailing in the single digits far behind Trump and Haley.
DeSantis’ schedule has been hectic. After campaigning in New Hampshire on Wednesday, he now plans to spend Thursday off the trail, hold more New Hampshire events Friday and then travel to South Carolina for most of the weekend before returning to New Hampshire on Sunday.
In Derry, he still tried to play up his New Hampshire bona fides.
“We’re excited to be here,” he said after a well-practiced five-minute anecdote about his family’s relationship to the Boston Red Sox, who are revered in New Hampshire. He went on to suggest that Haley’s refusal to debate him in the state had played a part in his decision to back away.
“You know, we had planned to be here tomorrow night,” he said. “They’ve always done a debate in New Hampshire a week before the primary. So I said I’m in. Of course, Trump hasn’t debated, so he’s not in, and Haley wouldn’t debate either.”
Speaking to reporters afterward, DeSantis tried to downplay his decision to travel to South Carolina.
It remained uncertain whether he might squeeze in a last-minute New Hampshire stop early next week before the state’s primary Tuesday, and Romeo declined to say whether DeSantis would be there on the day of the election. Neither the governor nor his super PAC has placed an advertisement in New Hampshire since Nov. 18, according to AdImpact, a media-tracking firm.
Haley’s path in New Hampshire is now clearer. Even after she finished third in Iowa — close behind DeSantis — Haley declared that she had accomplished her goal of creating a one-on-one matchup with the former president.
“When you look at how we’re doing in New Hampshire, in South Carolina and beyond, I can safely say tonight Iowa made this Republican primary a two-person race,” she said after votes were tallied Monday.
Olivia Perez-Cubas, a spokesperson for Haley, responded to DeSantis’ move with a quip: “South Carolina is a great state. We hope they enjoy their vacation time here.”
Since December, Haley and her allies have pointed to the possibility of a one-on-one race in New Hampshire as an opportunity for an outright victory there.
Internal polling conducted last month in the state by Americans for Prosperity Action, a super PAC founded by the billionaire Koch family that is backing Haley’s campaign, found that in a full field of Republican candidates, she trailed Trump by 45% to 32%.
But in a head-to-head matchup between Haley and Trump, without DeSantis, Vivek Ramaswamy or Chris Christie — both of whom have since left the race — the polling found Haley in a statistical tie with Trump, 48% to 45%.
Still, DeSantis’ decision to spend less time in New Hampshire is not guaranteed to be good news for her. Supporters of DeSantis tend to be more conservative than Haley’s moderate-leaning coalition, so those who jump ship from the Florida governor might vote for Trump instead.
CBS News earlier reported DeSantis’ shift toward South Carolina.
DeSantis was denied his best chance at exposure in New Hampshire when Haley turned down two debates scheduled for Thursday and Sunday. Even the weather seemed to be against him there. A snowstorm and icy roads forced him to cancel two town halls in rural parts of the state Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, while Haley and Trump were able to go through with their events.
Trump was set to return to New Hampshire on Wednesday evening. He spent the morning in a Manhattan courthouse for his defamation trial, where writer E. Jean Carroll testified that Trump had “shattered my reputation” by accusing her of lying about her claim that he raped her in a department store dressing room decades ago. Trump’s disclaiming comments, loud enough for jurors to hear, prompted the judge in the case to threaten to throw him out of the room.
Even before it was clear that DeSantis was retreating from New Hampshire, his allies were trying to lower expectations.
Jason Osborne, the majority leader of New Hampshire’s House of Representatives, who has endorsed DeSantis, said in an interview Tuesday that the Florida governor had “nothing to lose” in New Hampshire.
“The expectations are already set so low,” Osborne said. “Anything he does will be over expectations. There’s only upside here.”
Never Back Down’s field operation in South Carolina is not nearly as extensive as the one it spent heavily to create in Iowa, where DeSantis staked many of his hopes and allowed the super PAC to take over many of the responsibilities of a traditional campaign.
The group has burned through cash, spending at least $30 million on its push to reach voters in person through door-knocking and canvassing in early-primary states, according to a person with knowledge of its efforts — a figure that does not include additional tens of millions in television advertising.
Given that ambitious investment, DeSantis’ defeat Monday to Trump in Iowa was all the more devastating, and raised urgent new questions about how long his operation could financially sustain a bid and attract new donors.
One of those who was laid off at Never Back Down, George Andrews, who had been assigned as a caucus precinct operations director in Iowa but also listed himself on LinkedIn as a state director in California, posted on the career website that he had been let go.
“As of 6 am this morning, I learned I am now a free agent due to budget cuts beyond my control,” Andrews wrote in a post on LinkedIn.
“I completely understand why this had to happen, harbor no ill will, and wish my former team great success as they attempt to bring back sanity to our party,” he wrote. “What they are trying to accomplish for America is much greater than my termination as an individual employee.”
An official with the group appeared to confirm the layoffs, saying that those affected were being paid through the end of January.
The official, who did not speak on the record, added that the group was “evaluating and paring down” other consultants, vendors and some staff members who had been focused on various aspects of the group’s work.
Scott Wagner, the CEO of Never Back Down, issued a statement saying that the group continued to host events for DeSantis, but he did not address the question of layoffs.
“Never Back Down continues to host a slew of events on the ground for Gov. DeSantis,” Wagner said. “We’ve mobilized several members of our robust Iowa team over to the other early primary states to help in these efforts.”
Paul Mondello, 81, of Londonderry, New Hampshire, who was at an event for DeSantis in Derry on Wednesday, said it was “kind of offensive to some degree” that the governor was not focusing on New Hampshire, but it would not shake his resolve to vote for him.
“For him to leave, it is a little bit of a punch,” Mondello said. “I don’t think you should give up.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Debates; Political campaigns; Political action committees--PAC; State elections; Governors; Voters; Layoffs; Political advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs

Location: New Hampshire; South Carolina; United States--US; Florida; Iowa

People: DeSantis, Ron; Haley, Nikki

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Endorsements; Florida; United States; Relocation Of Business; Cbs Corporation; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Libel And Slander; Debates (Political); Boston Red Sox; Iowa; South Carolina; Cbs News; New Hampshire; Americans For Prosperity; Primaries And Caucuses; House Of Representatives; Christie, Christopher J; Conservatism (Us Politics); Linkedin Corporation; Nevada; Budgets And Budgeting; Politics And Government; California; Presidential Election Of 2024; Political Action Committees; Layoffs And Job Reductions; United States Politics And Government; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Sex Crimes; State Legislatures; Carroll, E Jean; Polls And Public Opinion; Londonderry (Nh); Never Back Down Inc; Republican Party; Haley, Nikki R; Police Reform; Speeches And Statements; Trump, Donald J; Desantis, Ron; Browning, Kellen (Journalist); Campaign Finance; Nehamas, Nicholas

Title: Another Shake-Up by DeSantis Opens a Path for Haley

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 18, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-18T01:12:10Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2915758418

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/another-shake-up-desa ntis-opens-path-haley/docview/2915758418/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Smartphones Take Our Children To a Different World: [Op-Ed]

Author: Dreyfuss, Emily

Publication info: Dreyfuss, Emily. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/smartphones-take-our-children-different-world/docview/2913829420/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Do you know what a Zynbabwe is? Or an upper-decky lip pillow? OK, here's an easier one -- how about just Zyn?
If you are scratching your head, don't feel bad: Almost no adult I have spoken to has had any idea either. This is despite the fact that the nicotine pouch Zyn is a jewel in the crown of a multibillion-dollar tobacco company. Haven't heard of nicotine pouches to begin with? Neither had I. But when I ask my 19-year-old neighbor Ian if he knows what a Zynbabwe is, I get a shocked reply: "You know about Zyns?"
You may have seen the tins that contain 15 little white rectangles that look like the desiccant packs labeled "Do Not Eat." Zyns are filled with nicotine and are meant to be placed under your lip like tobacco dip. No spitting is required, so nicotine pouches are even less visible than vaping. Zyns come in two strengths in the United States, three and six milligrams. A single six-milligram pouch is a dose so high that first-time users on TikTok have said it caused them to vomit or pass out. And while Zyns are presented as a healthier, smoke-free alternative to cigarettes, they are still addictive, according to Robert Jackler, a professor emeritus at the Stanford University School of Medicine who has studied nicotine industry marketing. And dentists are already reporting seeing gum injuries in patients who use pouches.
So how are kids learning about these little pouches? Greyson Imm, an 18-year-old high school student in Prairie Village, Kan., said he was 17 when Zyn videos started appearing on his TikTok feed. The videos multiplied through the spring, when they were appearing almost daily. "Nobody had heard about Zyn until very early 2023," he said. Now, a "lot of high schoolers have been using Zyn. It's really taken off, at least in our community."
As a longtime tech reporter, I thought I was well acquainted with the dangers of the internet. I co-wrote a book about them. I don't let my young children even know about YouTube. But I was stunned by the vast forces that are influencing teenagers. These forces operate largely unhampered by a regulatory system that seems to always be a step behind when it comes to how children can and are being harmed on social media.
Parents need to know that when children go online, they are entering a world of influencers, many of whom are hoping to make money by pushing dangerous products. It's a world that's invisible to us, because when we log on to our social media, we don't see what they see. Thanks to algorithms and ad targeting, I see videos about the best lawn fertilizer and wrinkle laser masks, while Ian is being fed reviews of flavored vape pens and beautiful women livestreaming themselves gambling crypto and urging him to gamble, too.
Smartphones are taking our kids to a different world. We know this, to some extent. We worry about bad actors bullying, luring or indoctrinating them online -- all risks that have been deeply reported on by the media and that schools and public agencies like the Federal Trade Commission are taking great pains to address. The social-media giant Meta has been sued on allegations that using its platforms is associated with issues including childhood anxiety and depression. Yet all of this is, unfortunately, only part of what makes social media dangerous.
The whole issue of influencer-marketing to youth, even for addictive products regulated by the government, falls into a legal and technical canyon so vast that the next generation is being lost in it.
The Rise of the Zynfluencer
First, a quick note about Zyn: A spokesman for its parent company said that while Zyn does contain nicotine, which is addictive, it's intended as a smoke-free alternative for those already using tobacco or nicotine products, and its marketing is directed to adults 21 and older. It added that the most recent results from the annual National Youth Tobacco Survey found that underage use of nicotine pouches is very low.
Another thing to know about Zyn? The tobacco conglomerate Philip Morris International acquired the Zyn maker Swedish Match in 2022 as part of a strategic push into smokeless products, a category it projects could help drive an expected $ 2 billion in U.S. revenue in 2024. P.M.I. is also a company that has long denied it markets tobacco products to minors despite decades of research accusing it of just that. One 2022 study alone found its brands advertising near schools and playgrounds around the globe.
It's conventional wisdom in the advertising world that the younger you get consumers hooked on a brand, the more likely you'll have them for life. Yet the internet has changed how minors and young adults learn about those products.
Maybe the best way is to explain just how different things are in the social media era from when today's parents were teenagers. Take me, for example, an Xennial who came of age with grunge and Nickelodeon. This was the '90s, when magazines ran full-page Absolut Vodka ads in different colors, which my friends and I collected and taped up on our walls next to pictures of a young Leonardo DiCaprio -- until our parents tore them down. This was advertising that appealed to me as a teenager but was also visible to my parents, and -- crucially -- to regulators, who could point to billboards near schools or flavored vodka ads in fashion magazines and say, this is wrong.
Even the most committed parent today doesn't have the same visibility into what her children are seeing online, so it is worth explaining how products like Zyn end up in social feeds.
Let's start with influencers. They aren't traditional pitch people. Think of them more like the coolest kids on the block. They establish a following thanks to their personality, experience or expertise. They share how they're feeling, they share what they're thinking about, they share stuff they like -- and sometimes they're paid by the company behind a product and sometimes they're not. They're incentivized to increase their following and, in turn, often their bank accounts. Young people are particularly susceptible to this kind of promotion because their relationship with influencers is akin to the intimacy of a close friend.
With ruthless efficiency, social media can deliver unlimited amounts of the content that influencers create or inspire. That makes the combination of influencers and social-media algorithms perhaps the most powerful form of advertising ever invented.
Enter Tucker Carlson. Mr. Carlson, the former Fox News megastar who recently started his own subscription streaming service, has become a big Zyn influencer. He's mentioned his love of Zyn in enough podcasts and interviews to earn the nickname Tucker CarlZyn.
A few days before Christmas, a short video of Mr. Carlson hit YouTube. Uploaded by the popular Nelk Boys -- a group of young male prankster influencers with eight million followers on YouTube alone whose company sold $ 50 million in merchandise in 2020 -- the clip shows Mr. Carlson standing in a field as a helicopter flies overhead. From the helicopter dangles a tin of Zyn roughly the height of a T. Rex. "This is the greatest day!" Mr. Carlson yells before running to the giant canister. "The volume of nicotine in here could save the world."
Corey Henry, a spokesman at Philip Morris International, said Zyn doesn't have partnerships or product promotion with any social media influencers or celebrities. He said the company is frequently asked if it is sponsoring Mr. Carlson and that Mr. Carlson's team has approached the company seeking a partnership to promote Zyn -- a request the company has declined. P.M.I. also notes that after Mr. Carlson went on a podcast and joked that Zyns were so good they could even cure erectile dysfunction, the company wrote to inform him that no, in no way does Zyn claim to treat E.D.
When I asked about Philip Morris International's assertions, Mr. Carlson responded, "Pretty funny." He did not elaborate.
Another "Zynfluencer" in attendance for the Zyn helicopter stunt was Max VanderAarde. You can glimpse him in a video from the event wearing a Santa hat and toasting Mr. Carlson as they each pop Zyns in their mouths. "You can call me king of Zynbabwe, or Tucker CarlZyn's cousin," he says in a recent TikTok. "Probably, what, moved 30 mil cans last year?"
Freezer Tarps, Mr. VanderAarde's TikTok account, appears to have been removed after I asked the company about it. Left up are the large number of TikToks by the likes of @lifeofaZyn, @Zynfluencer1 and @Zyntakeover; those hashtagged to #Zynbabwe, one of Freezer Tarps's favorite terms, have amassed more than 67 million views. So it's worth breaking down Mr. VanderAarde's videos.
He posted both on TikTok and sometimes also on Instagram and YouTube, with a collected 1.2 million followers. Many of his videos are a loop of skits and challenges, jokes and bravado that would make Joe Camel blush.
There's a video in which he portrays a sixth grader who needs a jolt of nicotine to perform in a spelling bee. "All I need is one rippoccino," he says, referring to a "rip" of a vape. There's a video in which he portrays each of a group of high school students trying to calm themselves after consuming too-strong marijuana. And one where he humorously argues that a young child should be able to have a three-milligram Zyn pouch.
All of these videos would just be jokes (in poor taste) if they were seen by adults only. They aren't. But we can't know for sure how many children follow the Nelk Boys or Freezer Tarps -- social-media companies generally don't release granular age-related data to the public. Mr. VanderAarde, who responded to a few of my questions via LinkedIn, said that nearly 95 percent of his followers are over the age of 18. (The minimum age to purchase Zyn is 21, wich is also the minimum age to purchase marijuana in most states where recreational marijuana is legal.)
For more details, I turned to Influencity, a software program that estimates the ages of social media users by analyzing profile photos and selfies in recent posts. Influencity estimated that roughly 10 percent of the Nelk Boys' followers on YouTube are ages 13 to 17. That's more than 800,000 children.
The helicopter video has already been viewed more than one million times on YouTube, and iterations of it have circulated widely on TikTok.
YouTube said it eventually determined that four versions of the Carlson Zyn videos were not appropriate for viewers under age 18 under its community guidelines and restricted access to them by age. A spokesman for the company said that the platform prohibits content aimed to directly sell, link to or facilitate access to regulated goods and services, including the sale of nicotine products, and that YouTube regularly reviews content to ensure that it complies with the platform's policies.
Mr. Carlson declined to comment on the record beyond his two-word statement. The Nelk Boys didn't respond to requests for comment. Meta declined to comment on the record. TikTok said it does not allow content that promotes tobacco or its alternatives. The company said that it has over 40,000 trust and safety experts who work to keep the platform safe and that it prevented teenagers' accounts from viewing over two million videos globally that show the consumption of tobacco products by adults. TikTok added that in the third quarter of 2023 it proactively removed 97 percent of videos that violated its alcohol, tobacco and drugs policy.
The Memeing of It All
Greyson Imm, the high school student in Prairie Village, Kan., points to Mr. VanderAarde as having brought Zyn "more into the mainstream." Mr. Imm believes his interest in independent comedy on TikTok perhaps made him a target for Mr. VanderAarde's videos. "He would create all these funny phrases or things that would make it funny and joke about it and make it relevant to us."
It wasn't long before Mr. Imm noticed Zyn blowing up among his classmates -- so much so that the student, now a senior at Shawnee Mission East High School, decided to write a piece in his school newspaper about it. He conducted an Instagram poll from the newspaper's account and found that 23 percent of the students who responded used oral nicotine pouches during school.
Through his interviews, Mr. Imm found that some students, particularly those first hooked on nicotine from vaping, are attracted to Zyn's high nicotine content and near-invisible delivery method, which is so surreptitious it can be easily consumed during class. "The first time you rip a Juul, you never feel like that again," the piece quotes a student as saying under a pseudonym.
Over the past year, two other high school newspapers -- affiliated with St. Louis Park High School in Minnesota, which has around 1,500 students, and with Lake Forest High School, a school with over 1,400 students in the suburbs of Chicago -- have separately published pieces noting the popularity of Zyn, with one calling out Freezer Tarps's account specifically.
"Upper-decky lip cushions, ferda!" Mr. VanderAarde coos in what was one of his popular TikTok videos, which had been liked more than 40,000 times. The singsong audio sounds like gibberish to most people, but it's actually a call to action. "Lip cushion" is a nickname for a nicotine pouch, and "ferda" is slang for "the guys."
"I have fun posting silly content that makes fun of pop culture," Mr. VanderAarde said to me in our LinkedIn exchange.
Videos like his operate like a meme: It's unintelligible to the uninitiated, it's a hilarious inside joke to those who know, and it encourages the audience to spread the message. I've spent the past three years studying media manipulation and memes, and what I see in Freezer Tarps's silly content is strategy. The use of Zyn slang seems like a way to turn interest in Zyn into a meme that can be monetized through merchandise and other business opportunities.
Such as? Freezer Tarps sells his own pouch product, Upperdeckys, which delivers caffeine instead of nicotine and is available in flavors including cotton candy and orange creamsicle. In addition to jockeying for sponsorship, Mr. Carlson may also be trying to establish himself with a younger, more male, more online audience as his new media company begins building its subscriber base. The Nelk Boys, like all influencers, are looking to build their following and engagement numbers -- something the virality of the product and one of its star boosters would surely help with.
This is the kind of viral word-of-mouth marketing that looks like entertainment, functions like culture and can increase sales. Philip Morris International, even if it doesn't intend to, could be benefiting substantially from the social-media excitement around its product.
The More Things Change
What's particularly galling about all of this is that we as a society already agreed that peddling nicotine to kids is not OK. It is illegal to sell nicotine products to anyone under the age of 21 in all 50 states. There's good reason for this, as numerous studies have shown that the younger people are when they try nicotine for the first time, the more likely they will become addicted to it. Nearly 90 percent of adults who smoke daily started smoking before they turned 18.
Joe Camel was retired in 1997 after the Federal Trade Commission accused the R.J. Reynolds company of using the goofy mascot to target young people. Soon after, tobacco companies agreed to a host of advertising and marketing restrictions as part of a $ 206 billion settlement to resolve lawsuits brought by state attorneys general.
Decades later -- even after Juul showed the power of influencers to help addict yet another generation of children -- the courts, tech companies and regulators still haven't adequately grappled with the complexities of the influencer economy.
We are living in the absurdities of that loophole. California forbids any tobacco billboards near the middle school by my house in San Francisco, but that law does not prevent unsponsored #Zynbabwe videos from showing up in those students' feeds at recess.
Facebook, Instagram and TikTok all have guidelines that prohibit tobacco ads and sponsored, endorsed or partnership-based content that promotes tobacco products. Holding them accountable for maintaining those standards is a bigger question.
Government agencies are clearly overwhelmed; they need the resources to enforce the rules already on the books to protect children from exposure to addictive products. And while regulators these days are all over the problems presented by teenagers and social media, their solutions don't do enough to address this problem.
The F.T.C. has guidelines for influencer sponsorship disclosures and has issued guidance to its staff noting that influencers who promote products to children shouldn't blur the line between advertising and entertainment. An agency spokeswoman also noted that sponsorship doesn't necessarily involve money changing hands: It could include anything from the provision of free products to a personal relationship to winning a prize. Because Philip Morris International is not sponsoring any of this content, however, none of those rules seem to apply. The spokeswoman said the agency cannot comment on the specific situation or company.
A recent F.T.C. effort to propose new online privacy safeguards for children addresses ad targeting, but it doesn't broaden the definition of advertising to encompass unpaid viral influencer content. A federal judge blocked California's recent legislation requiring websites to implement protections for users under 18, saying the law most likely violated the First Amendment. The New York Times filed a brief in that case, arguing certain provisions in the law were unconstitutional; the state attorney general has appealed the ruling.
A separate piece of legislation, the bipartisan Kids Online Safety Act, is awaiting a Senate vote. The bill has decent prospects of passage, but it doesn't directly address the issue of unpaid influencers, said John Perrino, a policy analyst at the Stanford Internet Observatory. As the bill now stands, state attorneys general could take the social-media platforms to court for amplifying specific kinds of harmful content to those 16 and under, including the promotion of tobacco, gambling and alcohol. Some progressives worry that it would empower red-state warriors to censor L.G.B.T.Q. content.
We need a new definition of advertising that takes into account how the internet actually works. I'd go so far as to propose that the courts broaden the definition of advertising to include all influencer promotion. For a product as dangerous as nicotine, I'd put the bar to be considered an influencer as low as 1,000 followers on a social-media account, and maybe if a video from someone with less of a following goes viral under certain legal definitions, it would become influencer promotion.
Laws should require tech companies to share data on what young people are seeing on social media and to prevent any content promoting age-gated products from reaching children's feeds. Of course, it's easy for children to claim they're older when they create social media accounts, so those efforts must go hand in hand with social media companies putting real teeth behind their efforts to verify the ages of their users. Government agencies should enforce the rules already on the books to protect children from exposure to addictive products, such as the Food and Drug Administration's mandate to authorize the sale of nicotine products.
Ideally, Americans could rely on lawmakers to do this work, but more likely, it will be left to the courts.
"I think the Supreme Court is going to have to take up this question of new forms of advertising at some point, because it's very hard to place within the existing body of First Amendment law," Genevieve Lakier, a University of Chicago Law School professor, said. "But it seems like this is the direction marketing is going."
I refuse to believe there aren't ways to write laws and regulations that can address these difficult questions over tech company liability and free speech, that there aren't ways to hold platforms more accountable for advertising that might endanger kids. Let's stop treating the internet like a monster we can't control. We built it. We foisted it upon our children. We had better try to protect them from its potential harms as best we can.
While I was researching this story, my 8-year-old son picked up a package on the sidewalk outside our house. "Mom, can I have some of this gum?" he yelled, opening the carton. "Don't eat things you find on the ground!" I responded. When I got closer, I realized it wasn't gum he was holding; it was a package of Zyn. A few weeks earlier, I would have had no idea what it was.
Emily Dreyfuss is a co-author of the book "Meme Wars: The Untold Story of the Online Battles Upending Democracy in America" and the director of the News Lab at Harvard University's Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , X and Threads .
A co-author of the book "Meme Wars: The Untold Story of the Online Battles Reshaping Democracy in America" and the director of the News Lab at Harvard University's Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy.
Photograph PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON NOCITO) (SR6); Top left, Matthew VanderAarde often promoted Zyn in his now-defunct TikTok account, Freezer Tarps. Top right, Tucker Carlson in a Freezer Tarps video about Zyn from December. Above center, the comedian Bert Kreischer trying Zyn. (SR7) This article appeared in print on page SR6, SR7.

Subject: Young adults; Minors; Smartphones; Schools; Video recordings; Nicotine; Influencer marketing; Social networks; Tobacco; Algorithms; Advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Influencer marketing Social networks Advertising

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Philip Morris International; NAICS: 312120, 312230

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/12/opinion/children-nicotine-zyn-social-media.html

Title: Smartphones Take Our Children To a Different World:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 14, 2024

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2913829420

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/smartphones-take-our-children-different-world/docview/2913829 420/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lab in China Is Quandary For Microsoft: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Weise, Karen; Metz, Cade; Mccabe, David

Publication info: Weise, Karen; Metz, Cade; Mccabe, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lab-china-is-quandary-microsoft/docview/2913610394/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Amid U.S.-China tensions, the company has faced questions over whether operating an advanced research lab in Beijing is politically tenable.
When Microsoft opened an advanced research lab in Beijing in 1998, it was a time of optimism about technology and China.
The company hired hundreds of researchers for the lab, which pioneered Microsoft's work in speech, image and facial recognition and the kind of artificial intelligence that later gave rise to online chatbots like ChatGPT. The Beijing operation eventually became one of the most important A.I. labs in the world. Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder, called it an opportunity to tap China's "deep pool of intellectual talent."
But as tensions between the United States and China have mounted over which nation will lead the world's technological future, Microsoft's top leaders -- including Satya Nadella, its chief executive, and Brad Smith, its president -- have debated what to do with the prized lab for at least the past year, four current and former Microsoft employees said.
The company has faced questions from U.S. officials over whether maintaining a 200-person advanced technologies lab in China is tenable, the people said. Microsoft said it had instituted guardrails at the lab, restricting researchers from politically sensitive work.
The company, which is based in Redmond, Wash., said it had also opened an outpost of the lab in Vancouver, British Columbia, and would move some researchers from China to the location. The outpost is a backup if more researchers need to relocate, two people said. The idea of shutting down or moving the lab has come up, but Microsoft's leaders support continuing it in China, four people said.
"We are as committed as ever to the lab and the world-class research of this team," Peter Lee, who leads Microsoft Research, a network of eight labs across the world, said in a statement. Using the lab's formal name, he added, "There has been no discussion or advocacy to close Microsoft Research Asia, and we look forward to continuing our research agenda."
The debate at Microsoft stands out because the company is one of the few major U.S. tech firms -- alongside Apple and Tesla -- to keep a foothold in China. As China nurtured a domestic tech industry and geopolitical tensions increased with the United States, American companies such as Google whittled down their presence there. Facebook and other U.S. social media sites such as X have been blocked in China for years.
LinkedIn, which Microsoft owns, shut down its professional social network in China in 2021, citing growing compliance demands. But Microsoft has maintained its Bing search engine as the only foreign search engine in China, though it is heavily censored, and it offers its Windows operating system, cloud computing and applications for corporate customers there.
Microsoft has debated the lab's future for several years, five people with knowledge of the situation said. It has become a target of national security concerns amid the rise of A.I. and growing aggression between the United States and China. The hypothetical risks are that China could hack or otherwise infiltrate the lab, or that its researchers could leave Microsoft to join Chinese companies that work closely with the government, the people said.
The Biden administration privately asked Microsoft about the lab while drafting a ban over the past two years on new U.S. investments in companies building sensitive technologies in China that Beijing could use to enhance its military, two people familiar with the conversations said. (The proposed rules, issued in August, are not yet final.)
Senators asked Mr. Smith about Microsoft's ties to China at a subcommittee hearing on A.I. in September. He said the country accounted for 1.5 percent of Microsoft's sales, which were $ 212 billion last fiscal year.
Microsoft faces "a tricky balance," said Chris Miller, the author of "Chip War," a book that tracks the geopolitical history of tech. "They need to consider where the trust of the political system is going."
The White House declined to comment.
Microsoft's lab in Beijing was born when Mr. Gates appointed Kai-Fu Lee, a Taiwanese-born A.I. researcher, to build the operation. (Dr. Lee later left to join Google and now runs a venture capital firm.)
Researchers at the lab, many of whom were at the top of their field, explored technologies such as speech recognition, computer vision and natural language understanding, which are cornerstones in the development of artificial intelligence. Some of the lab's researchers left for key positions at Chinese tech giants like Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent or helped found start-ups such as Megvii, a facial recognition company that has contributed to a vast national surveillance system in the country.
In 2018, Microsoft said it had invested more than $ 1 billion in research and development in China over the previous decade. The technical talent and invention from the Beijing lab underpin a key internal argument for supporting it.
But the lab's success and prestige also attracted attention in Washington, where the White House has increasingly restricted China's access to crucial technologies, citing national security.
Microsoft's leaders have discussed how to manage the tensions. Mr. Gates, who is still in regular touch with company executives and supports global engagement, has long backed the Beijing lab, people with knowledge of the matter said. He traveled to China in June and met President Xi Jinping, who told him that he was "the first American friend I've met with this year."
Microsoft's technology and research leaders, including Peter Lee and Kevin Scott, the chief technology officer, also support the lab, arguing that it has produced critical technological breakthroughs, two people said. Mr. Smith also backs the lab.
"The lesson of history is that countries succeed when they learn from the world," Mr. Smith said in a statement. "Guardrails and controls are critical, while engagement remains vital."
In recent years, Microsoft has limited what projects the researchers in China can work on, people with knowledge of the matter said. Last fall, researchers in China were not allowed on the small teams at Microsoft that had early access to GPT-4, the advanced A.I. system developed by Microsoft's partner OpenAI, they said.
The lab also has restrictions on work related to quantum computing, facial recognition and synthetic media, Microsoft said. The company also blocks hiring or working with students and researchers from universities affiliated with China's military, it said.
(The New York Times sued OpenAI and Microsoft last month for copyright infringement over the training of their A.I. systems.)
In the outpost of the lab in Vancouver, researchers can freely have access to critical technologies, including computing power and OpenAI systems needed for cutting-edge research, two people with knowledge of the lab said.
Kate Conger contributed reporting from San Francisco.
Audio produced by Sarah Diamond.
Kate Conger contributed reporting from San Francisco. Audio produced by Sarah Diamond.
Photograph A screen in Beijing showed Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder, meeting President Xi Jinping of China in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG BAKER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Search engines; Artificial intelligence; Geopolitics; National security; Social networks; Researchers; Facial recognition technology; Research & development--R & D; International relations-US

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Social networks

Location: Beijing China; United States--US; China; San Francisco California

People: Xi Jinping; Gates, Bill; Nadella, Satya; Smith, Brad

Company / organization: Name: Microsoft Research; NAICS: 541714; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/10/technology/microsoft-china-ai-lab.html

Title: Lab in China Is Quandary For Microsoft:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 13, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2913610394

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lab-china-is-quandary-microsoft/docview/2913610394/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Exploring the 3-Year Cruise That Never Set Sail: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Ceylan Yeginsu

Publication info: Ceylan Yeginsu. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/exploring-3-year-cruise-that-never-set-sail/docview/2913341483/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When a voyage around the world fell apart before it ever left the dock, Ceylan Yeginsu, a travel reporter, wanted to understand how it all went wrong.
Times Insider explains who we are and what we do and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
Last February, I was scrolling through Instagram when a peculiar ad appeared on my feed. The ad boasted of a three-year cruise called Life at Sea -- said to be the longest cruise ever, with 382 port calls around the world -- set to depart from Istanbul on Nov. 1.
As a reporter who covers cruises for The New York Times Travel desk, I was skeptical; I had followed news of similar cruises that failed to launch. I also knew putting together a voyage of this ambition would prove a herculean task, requiring secure funding and a ship furnished for residential sailing.
About three months later, while searching through Facebook for updates on the cruise, I learned from a prospective passenger's post that the sales and marketing team had resigned after a series of disputes with the parent company, Miray Cruises. Life at Sea's managing director, Mikael Petterson, also resigned at that time.
It seemed the voyage was doomed before it began.
And so began my investigation into the idyllic-seeming cruise, plagued by management issues and poor planning. My article, a behind-the-scenes look at the company turmoil, was published online last month.
As the departure date approached, I wanted to reach out to prospective passengers to get their take on the upcoming trip. I found one traveler through LinkedIn who shared with me that there was an app for passengers to communicate with one another. The passenger agreed to make a post on my behalf, informing others that I was a Times reporter hoping to speak with them.
The departure date was eventually delayed two times -- and the port changed to Amsterdam. On Nov. 20, weeks after the original departure date, the cruise was canceled. Miray had failed to secure a ship.
I wasn't surprised by the news. Miray Cruises is a midsize Turkish company that specializes in three- to four-day Greek Island cruises. It did not have any experience with sailings of this scale.
After the cancellation, many people who bought the cruise package did not want to speak on the record; some feared that speaking with The Times might impact their chances of getting a refund. By that time, Miray had promised to refund all passengers in three monthly installments, so I understood why they felt hesitant about speaking up. One couple, Kara and Joe Youssef, reached out to me in late November. From Istanbul, they told me that they had sold their two apartments and withdrawn their life savings to pay for the cruise.
But what surprised me most was how divided passengers were over the company's handling of the situation. Some were adamant that Miray did not intentionally mislead them. Others were convinced that they had fallen victim to a scam, the Fyre Festival of cruises.
Some passengers provided me with another valuable resource: email threads between Miray executives. The emails, dating to March 2023, showed that the company's executives had failed to address basic issues, like how to set up secure payment methods to collect deposits from passengers. They also appeared to ignore concerns over the suitability of the proposed ship.
In mid-December, I reached out to Vedat Ugurlu, the owner of Miray. I was surprised that he got back to me within minutes as he hadn't given any interviews to other news outlets. We spoke for more than two hours on a video call that he took from a conference room in the Istanbul headquarters of his company.
He was grateful for the opportunity to explain himself and insisted that he ran a reputable company that had over 30 years of experience in the cruise business. He said he had no intention of misleading passengers, but blamed the cruise's unraveling on not selling enough cabins.
Some passengers told a different story. When I spoke with the Youssefs again last month, they told me how Miray had led them on until the very last minute; they were told the cruise would depart as planned, even with just two passengers on board. They didn't believe the company set out to defraud them, but feared that Miray used their money to acquire a ship and would not have the money to refund them.
Now, with all their money tied up, the Youssefs remain stranded in an Istanbul hotel room, waiting for a refund of $ 80,000. They are at risk of becoming homeless.
Only a small amount of money has been refunded to customers, and the Youssefs have yet to receive their first refund. My next reporting aim is to try and understand more about the company's finances, as many passengers lose hope that they will be paid back at all.
Ceylan Yeginsu, a reporter for the Travel section, was previously an international correspondent in Britain and Turkey.
Photograph Kara and Joe Youssef gave up most of their belongings, withdrew their savings and uprooted their lives to embark on a cruise around the world. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RENA R. EFFENDI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Cruises; Passengers; Reporters

Location: Turkey; Istanbul Turkey

People: Yeginsu, Ceylan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/11/insider/exploring-the-3-year-cruise-that-never-set-sail.html

Title: Exploring the 3-Year Cruise That Never Set Sail:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 12, 2024

column: Times Insider

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2913341483

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/exploring-3-year-cruise-that-never-set-sail/docview/2913341483/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

You Might Call Him A Murder Hornet: [Review]

Author: Nicholson, Amy

Publication info: Nicholson, Amy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/you-might-call-him-murder-hornet/docview/2913341458/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In this action thriller, Jason Statham plays a man who will do whatever it takes to protect his hive.
"To bee or not to bee?" That is a question asked to Jason Statham in "The Beekeeper," a delirious entry in the thriving genre of action flicks about gunslingers who list a different career on their LinkedIn. (See also: "The Painter" and "The Bricklayer," both released just last week.) The director David Ayer's previous shoot-em-up, "The Tax Collector," was woefully short on quips about audits. He and the screenwriter Kurt Wimmer have not made that mistake here. Take a swig of mead every time Statham vows to protect the hive -- by which he means society -- and you'll have a fine time. Either way, you won't remember a thing about the plot.
Statham ("The Mechanic," "The Transporter") plays Adam Clay, an honest-to-goodness beekeeper who opens the film jarring honey. (Kudos to the costumer Kelli Jones for designing a slim-cut quilted beekeeping suit that gives Statham the panache of a fencer.) In the first minutes, his landlord, a kindly retiree named Eloise (Phylicia Rashad) loses her life savings to a network of internet scammers who prey on the older and the naïve. This cabal of techno thieves rakes in millions every day and boasts the political connections to use the Delta Force and SEAL Team 6 as bodyguards. They're still no match for a guy who can wipe out a hornet's nest with a stun gun. As a corrupt former C.I.A. head (Jeremy Irons) sighs, "If a beekeeper says you're going to die, you're going to die."
The script's ridiculous rationale -- which our hero repeatedly intones like he's hypnotizing us to believe it -- is that certain beekeepers have pledged to prevent colony collapse, both apoidea and homo sapien. Sure, that'll do. No less a scribe than William Shakespeare claimed that bees "teach the act of order to a peopled kingdom."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Really, Statham is simply the embodiment of death. There's no hesitation, no heightened escalation, just kill kill kill. The fight choreography and editing are bludgeoning, though there's a nifty cut where a goon gets flung over the camera and the cinematographer Gabriel Beristain flips around to watch the man's body tumble down the stairs. When a marvelous heavy (Taylor James) slides on brass knuckles, the sound of a punch was so startling that I jumped (and giggled).
Things drag whenever "The Beekeeper" goes through the motions of being sensible. There's endless scenes of panicky phone calls and a go-nowhere moral debate between outsider justice and civilized law featuring Eloise's daughter, Verona (Emmy Raver-Lampman), a heavy-boozing, monomaniacal F.B.I. agent who I suspect was funnier on the page. I'd forgo her subplot for more of Ayer's giddy villains: the call center creepazoids Mickey (David Witts) and Rico (Enzo Cilenti), their skateboarding tech bro boss, Derek (Josh Hutcherson), and a rival bee freak, Anisette (Megan Le), who enters screaming and exits far too soon.
Statham excels as a straight-faced goof. Between his glower and the movie's high-quality production values, this brain cell-destroying schlock resembles an earnest drama. Yet, Ayer makes it plain that he's in on the joke. As Statham lays waste to a camo-clad squadron, the shoulder patches on their uniforms read: BS.
The Beekeeper
Rated R for stinging language and violence. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes. In theaters.
Photograph From left, Jason Statham and Jeremy Irons in "The Beekeeper," directed by David Ayer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL SMITH/MGM, VIA AMAZON) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Beekeeping; Motion pictures

Business indexing term: Subject: Beekeeping

People: Statham, Jason; Irons, Jeremy

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/10/movies/the-beekeeper-review.html

Title: You Might Call Him A Murder Hornet:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 12, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Film Review

ProQuest document ID: 2913341458

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/you-might-call-him-murder-hornet/docview/2913341458/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Iowa Turned Into a Beacon That Burns Red After Deep Blue: [National Desk]

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-iowa-turned-into-beacon-that-burns-red-after/docview/2911686741/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Over the past 15 years, the Upper Midwest has seen a remarkable state-by-state sorting of voters along partisan lines.
With the Iowa caucuses six days away, politicians will be crisscrossing the state, blowing through small-town Pizza Ranches, filling high school gyms, and flipping pancakes at church breakfasts.
What Iowans will not be seeing are Democrats. President Biden spoke Friday in Pennsylvania, and he and Vice President Kamala Harris both were in South Carolina over the weekend and on Monday. But Iowa, a state that once sizzled with bipartisan politics, launched Barack Obama to the presidency in 2008 and seesawed between Republican and Democratic governors, has largely been ceded to the G.O.P. as part of a remarkable sorting of voters in the Upper Midwest.
There is no single reason that over the past 15 years the Upper Midwest saw Iowa turn into a beacon of Donald J. Trump's populism, North and South Dakota shed storied histories of prairie populism for a conservatism that reflected the national G.O.P., and Illinois and Minnesota move dramatically leftward. (Sandwiched in between, Wisconsin found an uncomfortable parity between its conservative rural counties and its more industrial and academic centers in Milwaukee and Madison.)
No state in the nation swung as heavily Republican between 2012 and 2020 as Iowa, which went from a six-percentage-point victory for Barack Obama to an eight-point win for Mr. Trump in the last presidential election.
Deindustrialization of rural reaches and the Mississippi River regions had its impact, as did the hollowing out of institutions, from civic organizations to small-town newspapers, that had given the Upper Midwest a character separate from national politics.
Susan Laehn, an Iowa State University political scientist who lives in the small town of Jefferson, Iowa, recounted how an issue that once would have been handled through discussions at church or the Rotary Club instead became infected with national politics, with her husband, the libertarian Greene County attorney, stuck in the middle: New multicolored lighting installed last summer to illuminate the town's carillon bell tower prompted an angry debate over L.G.B.T.Q. rights, leaving much of the town soured on identity politics that they largely blamed on the national left.
Another issue: Brain drain. The movement of young college graduates out of Iowa and the Dakotas to the metropolises of Chicago and Minneapolis-St. Paul made a mark on the politics of all five states.
Michael Dabe, a 19-year-old business and marketing major at the University of Dubuque, near the western bank of the Mississippi River, has found a comfortable home in Iowa, where life is slower and simpler than in his native Illinois and politics, he said, are more aligned with his conservative inclinations.
But he expressed little doubt what he will be doing with his business degree once he graduates, and most of his classmates are likely to follow suit, he said.
"There are just so many more opportunities in Chicago," he said. "Politics are important to me, but job security, being able to raise a family more securely, is more important, for sure."
An analysis in 2022 by economists at the University of North Carolina, the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research, the University of Michigan and the University of Chicago of data gleaned from LinkedIn showed how states with dynamic economic centers are luring college graduates from more rural states. Iowa loses 34.2 percent of its college graduates, worse than 40 of the 50 states, just below North Dakota, which loses 31.6 percent. Illinois, by contrast, gains 20 percent more college graduates than it produces. Minnesota has about 8 percent more than it produces.
Even when young families look to move back to the rural areas they grew up in, they are often thwarted by an acute housing shortage, said Benjamin Winchester, a rural sociologist at the University of Minnesota extension in St. Cloud, Minn.; 75 percent of rural homeowners are baby boomers or older, and those older residents see boarded-up businesses and believe their communities' best days are behind them, he said.
As such older voters grow frustrated and more conservative, the trend is accelerating. Iowa, which had a congressional delegation split between two House Republicans, two House Democrats and two Republican senators in 2020, now has a government almost wholly under Republican control, which has enacted boldly conservative policies that ban almost all abortions and transition care for minors, publicly fund vouchers for private schools and pull books describing sexual acts from school libraries. (The library and abortion laws are now on hold in the courts.) The congressional delegation is now entirely Republican after a 2022 G.O.P. sweep in House races and the re-election of Senator Charles E. Grassley.
Meantime on the east bank of the Mississippi, in Illinois, high-capacity semiautomatic rifles have been banned, the right to an abortion has been enshrined in law and recreational marijuana is legal. Upriver in Minnesota, pot is legal, unauthorized immigrants are getting driver's licenses, and voting access for felons and teens is expanding.
Such policy dichotomies are influencing the decisions of younger Iowans, said David Loebsack, a former Democratic House member from eastern Iowa.
"These people are going, and I fear they're going to keep going, given the policies that have been adopted," he said.
The politics of rural voters in the Upper Midwest may simply be catching up to other rural regions that turned conservative earlier, said Sam Rosenfeld, a political scientist at Colgate University and author of "The Polarizers," a book on the architects of national polarization. Southern rural white voters turned sharply to the right in the 1960s and 1970s as Black southerners gained power with the civil rights movement and attendant legislation, he noted.
But rural voters in the Upper Midwest, where few Black people lived, held on to a more diverse politics for decades longer. North Dakota, with its state bank, state grain mill and state grain elevator, has retained vestiges of a socialist past, when progressive politicians railed against rapacious businessmen from the Twin Cities. Even still, its politics have changed dramatically.
"Until relatively recently, there was a Midwestern rural white voter who was distinct from a southern rural white voter," Mr. Rosenfeld said. "There was a real progressive tradition in the Midwest uncoopted by Jim Crow and racial issues."
The rural reaches of Iowa now look politically similar to rural stretches in any state, from New York to Alabama to Oregon. And rural voters simply appreciated what Mr. Trump did for them, said Neil Shaffer, who chairs the Republican Party of Howard County, Iowa. Located along the Minnesota border, it was the only county in the nation to give both Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump 20-percentage-point victories.
Iowans like outsiders, and Mr. Obama's charisma was winning, Mr. Shaffer said. But the self-employed farmers and small-business owners of Howard County were burdened by the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration's regulation of fresh water runoff, and depressed commodity prices.
There was skepticism of Mr. Trump and his abrasive, big-city behavior, Mr. Shaffer said, "but there's that individual spirit in the Midwest that likes the Don Quixote railing against the big bad government, And people knew what they were getting."
Kyle D. Kondik of the University of Virginia Center for Politics explains polarization as a tale of the top half versus the bottom half of the population scale. If more than half a state's vote comes from dominant metropolitan areas, as is the case in Illinois and Minnesota, states tend to be Democratic. If smaller, rural counties dominate, states tend to move right.
Of the nine largest counties in Iowa, only one, Dubuque, switched from Mr. Obama to Mr. Trump in 2016. President Biden's margin in those counties in 2020 was only three percentage points lower than Mr. Obama's winning 2012 margin.
But Mr. Obama also carried 31 of the 90 smaller counties; Mr. Biden won none. As a group, Mr. Obama lost those rural counties by 2.5 percentage points to his Republican rival, Mitt Romney. Mr. Biden lost them to Mr. Trump by nearly 30 percentage points.
Mr. Kondik attributed some of that to Mr. Trump, whose anti-immigrant, protectionist policies diverged from traditional Republican positions. "He was a good fit for the Midwest," he said.
Laura Hubka, who co-chairs the Howard County Democrats, remembered high school students driving trucks around town in 2016 with large Trump flags. It felt intimidating, she said.
"It was scary for a lot of people and scared a lot of Democrats inside," Ms. Hubka said. "Trump spoke to a certain kind of people. People who felt like they were left behind."
Chased by the shifting politics, she said, at least one of her children now plans to move his family across the border to Minnesota.
But the sweeping Republican victories in Iowa in 2022, when Mr. Trump was not on the ballot and the G.O.P. faltered in much of the country, point to other factors. Christopher Larimer, a political scientist at the University of Northern Iowa, again pointed to demographics. The huge groundswell of first-time 18-year-old voters who propelled Mr. Obama in 2008 were 22 and graduating college in 2012. By 2016, many of them had likely left the state, Mr. Larimer said.
"I don't know if Iowa is any different from anywhere else; it's caught up in the nationalization of politics," he said. "Young people are moving into the urban core, and that's turning the outskirts more red."
If that urban core is in state, statewide results won't change. If it is elsewhere, they will.
Mr. Winchester, the rural sociologist, said the perception of rural decline is not reality; regional centers, like Bemidji, Minn., or Pella and Davenport, Iowa, are thriving, and even if small-town businesses have closed, housing in those towns is filled.
But, he said, "many towns don't know their place in the larger world. That concept of anomie, a sense of disconnection, is out there."
Gary Hillmer, a retired U.S. Agriculture Department soil conservationist in Hardin County, Iowa, has drifted away from his Republican roots and said he struggled to understand the views of his Trump-supporting neighbors in the farm country around Iowa Falls.
"It's hard to have a conversation with them to figure out why," he said. "It's frustrating, in that regard, because we ought to be able to talk to each other."
Charles Homans and Cindy Hadish contributed reporting.
Charles Homans and Cindy Hadish contributed reporting.
Photograph Former President Barack Obama carried Iowa in 2008 and 2012, while President Biden lost it by 8 points in 2020. No state swung as heavily Republican as Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Michael Dabe, a freshman at the University of Dubuque, in his room at his parent's home on Sunday. Mr. Dabe expects to move to Chicago after graduation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAYLA WOLF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Supporters of former President Donald J. Trump watched him speak at a rally in Iowa in October. Rural voters were said to appreciate what Mr. Trump did for them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A13.

Subject: Political parties; College graduates; Rural areas; Presidential elections; Baby boomers; Abortion; Populism; Partisanship; Voter behavior

Location: North Dakota; Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Illinois; Minnesota; Iowa; Mississippi River

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr; Obama, Barack; Trump, Donald J

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/08/us/politics/iowa-republicans-red.html

Title: Why Iowa Turned Into a Beacon That Burns Red After Deep Blue:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 9, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2911686741

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-iowa-turned-into-beacon-that-burns-red-after/docview/2911686741/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Iowa Turned So Red When Nearby States Went Blue

Author: Weisman, Jonathan

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-iowa-turned-so-red-when-nearby-states-went/docview/2911553030/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
DES MOINES, Iowa — With the Iowa caucuses six days away, politicians will be crisscrossing the state, blowing through small-town Pizza Ranches, filling high school gyms, and flipping pancakes at church breakfasts.
What Iowans will not be seeing are Democrats. President Joe Biden spoke Friday in Pennsylvania, and he and Vice President Kamala Harris both were in South Carolina over the weekend and on Monday. But Iowa, a state that once sizzled with bipartisan politics, launched Barack Obama to the presidency in 2008 and seesawed between Republican and Democratic governors, has largely been ceded to the GOP as part of a remarkable sorting of voters in the Upper Midwest.
There is no single reason that over the past 15 years the Upper Midwest saw Iowa turn into a beacon of Donald Trump’s populism, North and South Dakota shed storied histories of prairie populism for a conservatism that reflected the national GOP, and Illinois and Minnesota move dramatically leftward. (Sandwiched in between, Wisconsin found an uncomfortable parity between its conservative rural counties and its more industrial and academic centers in Milwaukee and Madison.)
No state in the nation swung as heavily Republican between 2012 and 2020 as Iowa, which went from a 6-percentage-point victory for Barack Obama to an 8-point win for Trump in the last presidential election.
Deindustrialization of rural reaches and the Mississippi River regions had its impact, as did the hollowing out of institutions, from civic organizations to small-town newspapers, that had given the Upper Midwest a character separate from national politics.
Susan Laehn, an Iowa State University political scientist who lives in the small town of Jefferson, Iowa, recounted how an issue that once would have been handled through discussions at church or the Rotary Club instead became infected with national politics, with her husband, the libertarian Greene County attorney, stuck in the middle: New multicolored lighting installed last summer to illuminate the town’s carillon bell tower prompted an angry debate over LGBTQ+ rights, leaving much of the town soured on identity politics that they largely blamed on the national left.
Another issue: Brain drain. The movement of young college graduates out of Iowa and the Dakotas to the metropolises of Chicago and Minneapolis-St. Paul made a mark on the politics of all five states.
Michael Dabe, a 19-year-old business and marketing major at the University of Dubuque, near the western bank of the Mississippi River, has found a comfortable home in Iowa, where life is slower and simpler than in his native Illinois and politics, he said, are more aligned with his conservative inclinations.
But he expressed little doubt what he will be doing with his business degree once he graduates, and most of his classmates are likely to follow suit, he said.
“There are just so many more opportunities in Chicago,” he said. “Politics are important to me, but job security, being able to raise a family more securely, is more important, for sure.”
An analysis in 2022 by economists at the University of North Carolina, the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research, the University of Michigan and the University of Chicago of data gleaned from LinkedIn showed how states with dynamic economic centers are luring college graduates from more rural states. Iowa loses 34.2% of its college graduates, worse than 40 of the 50 states, just below North Dakota, which loses 31.6%. Illinois, by contrast, gains 20% more college graduates than it produces. Minnesota has about 8% more than it produces.
Even when young families look to move back to the rural areas they grew up in, they are often thwarted by an acute housing shortage, said Benjamin Winchester, a rural sociologist at the University of Minnesota extension in St. Cloud, Minnesota; 75% of rural homeowners are baby boomers or older, and those older residents see boarded-up businesses and believe their communities’ best days are behind them, he said.
As such older voters grow frustrated and more conservative, the trend is accelerating. Iowa, which had a congressional delegation split between two House Republicans, two House Democrats and two Republican senators in 2020, now has a government almost wholly under Republican control, which has enacted boldly conservative policies that ban almost all abortions and transition care for minors, publicly fund vouchers for private schools and pull books describing sexual acts from school libraries. (The library and abortion laws are now on hold in the courts.) The congressional delegation is now entirely Republican after a 2022 GOP sweep in House races and the reelection of Sen. Chuck Grassley.
Meantime on the east bank of the Mississippi, in Illinois, high-capacity semi-automatic rifles have been banned, the right to an abortion has been enshrined in law and recreational marijuana is legal. Upriver in Minnesota, pot is legal, unauthorized immigrants are getting driver’s licenses, and voting access for felons and teens is expanding.
Such policy dichotomies are influencing the decisions of younger Iowans, said David Loebsack, a former Democratic House member from eastern Iowa.
“These people are going, and I fear they’re going to keep going, given the policies that have been adopted,” he said.
The politics of rural voters in the Upper Midwest may simply be catching up to other rural regions that turned conservative earlier, said Sam Rosenfeld, a political scientist at Colgate University and author of “The Polarizers,” a book on the architects of national polarization. Southern rural white voters turned sharply to the right in the 1960s and 1970s as Black southerners gained power with the civil rights movement and attendant legislation, he noted.
But rural voters in the Upper Midwest, where few Black people lived, held on to a more diverse politics for decades longer. North Dakota, with its state bank, state grain mill and state grain elevator, has retained vestiges of a socialist past, when progressive politicians railed against rapacious business interests from the Twin Cities. Even still, its politics have changed dramatically.
“Until relatively recently, there was a Midwestern rural white voter who was distinct from a southern rural white voter,” Rosenfeld said. “There was a real progressive tradition in the Midwest un-co-opted by Jim Crow and racial issues.”
The rural reaches of Iowa now look politically similar to rural stretches in any state, from New York to Alabama to Oregon. And rural voters simply appreciated what Trump did for them, said Neil Shaffer, who chairs the Republican Party of Howard County, Iowa. Located along the Minnesota border, it was the only county in the nation to give both Obama and Trump 20-percentage-point victories.
Iowans like outsiders, and Obama’s charisma was winning, Shaffer said. But the self-employed farmers and small-business owners of Howard County were burdened by the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration’s regulation of fresh water runoff, and depressed commodity prices.
There was skepticism of Trump and his abrasive, big-city behavior, Shaffer said, “but there’s that individual spirit in the Midwest that likes the Don Quixote railing against the big bad government, And people knew what they were getting.”
Kyle Kondik of the University of Virginia Center for Politics explains polarization as a tale of the top half versus the bottom half of the population scale. If more than half a state’s vote comes from dominant metropolitan areas, as is the case in Illinois and Minnesota, states tend to be Democratic. If smaller, rural counties dominate, states tend to move right.
Of the nine largest counties in Iowa, only one, Dubuque, switched from Obama to Trump in 2016. Biden’s margin in those counties in 2020 was only 3 percentage points lower than Obama’s winning 2012 margin.
But Obama also carried 31 of the 90 smaller counties; Biden won none. As a group, Obama lost those rural counties by 2.5 percentage points to his Republican rival, Mitt Romney. Biden lost them to Trump by nearly 30 percentage points.
Kondik attributed some of that to Trump, whose anti-immigrant, protectionist policies diverged from traditional Republican positions. “He was a good fit for the Midwest,” he said.
Laura Hubka, who co-chairs the Howard County Democrats, remembered high school students driving trucks around town in 2016 with large Trump flags. It felt intimidating, she said.
“It was scary for a lot of people and scared a lot of Democrats inside,” Hubka said. “Trump spoke to a certain kind of people. People who felt like they were left behind.”
Chased by the shifting politics, she said, at least one of her children now plans to move his family across the border to Minnesota.
But the sweeping Republican victories in Iowa in 2022, when Trump was not on the ballot and the GOP faltered in much of the country, point to other factors. Christopher Larimer, a political scientist at the University of Northern Iowa, again pointed to demographics. The huge groundswell of first-time 18-year-old voters who propelled Obama in 2008 were 22 and graduating college in 2012. By 2016, many of them had likely left the state, Larimer said.
“I don’t know if Iowa is any different from anywhere else; it’s caught up in the nationalization of politics,” he said. “Young people are moving into the urban core, and that’s turning the outskirts more red.”
If that urban core is in state, statewide results won’t change. If it is elsewhere, they will.
Winchester, the rural sociologist, said the perception of rural decline is not reality; regional centers, like Bemidji, Minnesota, or Pella and Davenport, Iowa, are thriving, and even if small-town businesses have closed, housing in those towns is filled.
But, he said, “many towns don’t know their place in the larger world. That concept of anomie, a sense of disconnection, is out there.”
Gary Hillmer, a retired U.S. Agriculture Department soil conservationist in Hardin County, Iowa, has drifted away from his Republican roots and said he struggled to understand the views of his Trump-supporting neighbors in the farm country around Iowa Falls.
“It’s hard to have a conversation with them to figure out why,” he said. “It’s frustrating, in that regard, because we ought to be able to talk to each other.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: College Graduates; Rural Sociology; High School Students; Graduates; Municipalities; Counties; School Libraries; Political Science; Scientists

Subject: Political parties; College graduates; Rural areas; Presidential elections; Baby boomers; Abortion; Voters; Populism

Location: North Dakota; Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Illinois; Minnesota; Iowa; Mississippi River

People: Obama, Barack

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: University of Dubuque; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Senate; Iowa; Democratic Party; Urban Areas; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Immigration And Emigration; Primaries And Caucuses; Obama, Barack; House Of Representatives; North Dakota; Small Business; United States; Agriculture And Farming; Davenport (Iowa); Conservatism (Us Politics); Iowa State University; Linkedin Corporation; Agriculture Department; Long, Michael R; Youth; Minneapolis (Minn); Presidential Election Of 2020; South Dakota; Midwestern States (Us); Mississippi River; Politics And Government; Ex Convicts; Elections, House Of Representatives; Sociology; Illinois; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Grassley, Charles E; Presidential Election Of 2012; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Presidential Election Of 2024; Winchester (Ill); University Of Minnesota; United States Politics And Government; St Paul (Minn); Wisconsin; Romney, Mitt; Voting And Voters; Black People; Shutdowns (Institutional); South Carolina; University Of Virginia; Rotary Clubs International; Education (K 12); Abortion; Presidential Election Of 2008; New York State; Minnesota; States (Us); Generation Z; Private And Sectarian Schools; University Of Northern Iowa; Univ ersity Of North Carolina; Rural Areas; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Republican Party; Libraries And Librarians; Trump, Donald J; Colgate University; Virginia; Weisman, Jonathan; University Of Chicago; Gun Control; Harris, Kamala D; Chicago (Ill); Madison (Wis); St Cloud (Minn); Colleges And Universities; Milwaukee (Wis); University Of Michigan

Title: Why Iowa Turned So Red When Nearby States Went Blue

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 9, 2024

Dateline: 2024-01-09T00:41:56Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2911553030

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-iowa-turned-so-red-when-nearby-states-went/docview/2911553030/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corrections: [Correction]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2908992625/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Corrections that appeared in print on Wednesday, Jan. 3, 2024.
FRONT PAGE
Because of an editing error, an article on Dec. 29 about the Republican presidential candidate Nikki Haley not mentioning slavery as a cause of the Civil War omitted the given name of a billionaire co-founder of LinkedIn and a major Democratic donor who gave $ 250,000 to a super PAC supporting Ms. Haley. He is Reid Hoffman.
ARTS
An article on Saturday about 12 music collections released in 2023 misstated the name of a Stax songwriter and musician. It is Mack Rice, not Max.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, please email nytnews@nytimes.com. To share feedback, please visit nytimes.com/readerfeedback.
Comments on opinion articles may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A13.

Title: Corrections:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 3, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Corrections/Retraction

ProQuest document ID: 2908992625

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corrections/docview/2908992625/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'New Collar' Jobs: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kelley, Lora

Publication info: Kelley, Lora. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-collar-jobs/docview/2907838990/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The jobs require advanced skills but not necessarily advanced degrees, especially in emerging high-tech fields like A.I., electric vehicles and robotics.
no͞o kŏl-ər
A job that requires specialized skills, but not necessarily a college degree, and that is becoming more important in emerging high-tech fields like artificial intelligence and cybersecurity.
Step aside, blue collar. And white collar, pink collar and green collar.
There's a new collar in town.
"New collar" jobs are those that require advanced skills but not necessarily advanced degrees, especially in emerging high-tech fields like artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, electric vehicles and robotics.
There are real fears that workers will lose jobs to technology, especially artificial intelligence, in the coming years. But "new collar" optimists (including those at companies looking to hire) frame things in a more positive light: There are also real opportunities ahead for skilled workers who know how to handle machines.
"Somebody has to program, monitor and maintain those robots," said Sarah Boisvert, the founder of the New Collar Network, a national work force training program based in New Mexico.
Even if millions of high-tech jobs are created in the coming years, the disruption to workers who lose jobs may be significant. For the many Americans without four-year college degrees -- more than half of adults, according to census data -- the new job market will require training.
Ginni Rometty, a former chief executive of IBM, is credited with coining "new collar" in 2016. At the time, she said, IBM was having trouble filling cybersecurity jobs, partly because outdated criteria required that candidates have college degrees.
"Because we overcredentialed for those cyber jobs, we were overlooking an entire pool of qualified, available candidates," she wrote in an email. "Unless millions of people are trained in the skills employers need now," she added, "they risk being unemployed even as millions of good-paying jobs go unfilled."
Many employers seem to have gotten the message. Hiring managers are increasingly using skills-based filters on LinkedIn to find candidates, a LinkedIn spokeswoman said, adding that 155 million of the platform's more than 930 million users are workers without four-year degrees.
"Having a pithy term that helps companies get energized about doing something innovative is helpful," said Colleen Ammerman, the director of the Race, Gender and Equity Initiative at Harvard Business School. She pointed to the electric vehicles industry as an example that will require many skilled workers. (In the past, these may have been hailed as "green collar" jobs.)
In 2017, 2019 and 2021, the House introduced -- but didn't pass -- versions of the New Collar Jobs Act, which aimed to promote jobs and training in fields like cybersecurity.
"It's great there are alternative models to four-year college," said Christopher M. Cox, a researcher who has written about the new collar economy. But he added that "new collar" might also be a clever term to downplay workers' anxieties, by framing the changing labor market and tech companies' ventures as more utopia, less "The Terminator."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Electric vehicles; Skilled workers; Robotics; Academic degrees; Cybersecurity

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Skilled workers

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https ://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/29/business/jobs-skill-new-collar.html

Title: 'New Collar' Jobs:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 31, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2907838990

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-collar-jobs/docview/2907838990/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 31, 2023

Last updated: 2024-06-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What to Expect in 2024 Regarding the Evolution Of Artificial Intelligence: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Walt, Vivienne

Publication info: Walt, Vivienne. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-expect-2024-regarding-evolution-artificial/docview/2907646242/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mustafa Suleyman remembers the epochal moment he grasped artificial intelligence's potential. It was 2016 -- Paleolithic times by A.I. standards -- and DeepMind, the company he had co-founded that was acquired by Google in 2014, had pitted its A.I. machine, AlphaGo, against a world champion of Go, the confoundingly difficult strategy game. AlphaGo zipped through thousands of permutations, making fast work of the hapless human. Stunned, Suleyman realized the machine had "seemingly superhuman insights," he says in his book on A.I., "The Coming Wave."
The result is no longer stunning -- but the implications are. Little more than a year after OpenAI's ChatGPT software helped bring generative A.I. into the public consciousness, companies, investors and regulators are grappling with how to shape the very technology designed to outsmart them. The exact risks of the technology are still being debated, and the companies that will lead it are yet to be determined. But one point of agreement: A.I. is transformative. "The level of innovation is very hard for people to imagine," said Vinod Khosla, founder of the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Khosla Ventures, which was one of the first investors in OpenAI. "Pick an area: books, movies, music, products, oncology. It just doesn't stop."
If 2023 was the year the world woke up to A.I., 2024 might be the year in which its legal and technical limits will be tested, and perhaps breached. DealBook spoke with A.I. experts about the real-world effects of this shift and what to expect next year.
Judges and lawmakers will increasingly weigh in. The flood of A.I. regulations in recent months is likely to come under scrutiny. That includes President Biden's executive order in October, which, if Congress ratifies, could compel companies to ensure that their A.I. systems cannot be used to make biological or nuclear weapons; embed watermarks on A.I.-generated content; and to disclose foreign clients to the government.
At the A.I. Safety Summit in Britain in November, 28 countries, including China -- though not Russia -- agreed to collaborate to prevent "catastrophic risks." And in marathon negotiations in December, the E.U. drafted one of the world's first comprehensive attempts to limit the use of artificial intelligence, which, among other provisions, restricts facial recognition and deep fakes and defines how businesses can use A.I. The final text is due out in early 2024, and the bloc's 27 member countries hope to approve it before European Parliament elections in June.
With that, Europe might effectively create global A.I. rules, requiring any company that does business in its market, of 450 million people, to cooperate. "It makes life tough for innovators," said Matt Clifford, who helped organize the A.I. summit in Britain. "They have to think about complying with a very long list of things people in Brussels are worried about."
There are plenty of concerns, including about A.I.'s potential to replace large numbers of jobs and to reinforce existing racial biases.
Some fear overloading A.I. businesses with regulations. Clifford believes existing fraud and consumer-protection laws make some portions of Europe's legislation, the A.I. Act, redundant. But the E.U.'s lead architect, Dragos Tudorache, said that Europe "wasn't aiming to be global regulators," and that he maintained close dialogue with members of the U.S. Congress during the negotiations. "I am convinced we have to stay in sync as much as possible," he said.
Governments have good reason to address A.I.: Even simple tools can serve dark purposes. "The microphone enabled both the Nuremberg rallies and the Beatles," wrote Suleyman, who is now the chief executive of Inflection AI, a start-up he co-founded last year with Reid Hoffman, a co-founder of LinkedIn. He fears that A.I. could become "uncontained and uncontainable" once it outsmarts humans. "Homo technologicus could end up being threatened by its own creation."
A.I. capabilities will soar. It's hard to know when that tipping point might arrive. Jensen Huang, the co-founder and chief executive of Nvidia, whose dominance of A.I. chips has seen its share price more than triple since Jan. 1, told the DealBook Summit in late November that "there's a whole bunch of things that we can't do yet."
Khosla believes the key A.I. breakthrough in 2024 will be "reasoning," allowing machines to produce far more accurate results, and that in 2025, "A.I. will win in reasoning against intelligent members of the community." A.I. machines will be steadily more capable of working through several logical steps, and performing probabilistic thinking, such as identifying a disease based on specific data, Khosla said.
Exponential growth in computational power, which hugely increases the capability of A.I. machines, factors into those predictions. "In 2024, it will be between 10 and 100 times more than current-day models," Clifford said. "We don't actually know what kind of innovations that's going to result in."
One new tool could be generative audio that allows users to deliver speeches in, say, Biden's voice or to generate rap songs, opera or Beethoven's nonexistent 10th symphony. DeepMind and YouTube have partnered with musicians to create A.I. tools allowing artists to insert instruments, transform musical styles or compose a melody from scratch.
Billions in investments will be needed. None of this will come cheap, and the question now is which companies will be able to build truly sustainable A.I. businesses. Of 175,072 A.I. patents filed between 2012 and 2022, more than half were filed in the last three years, according to Deutsche Bank. In 2024 and 2025, the bank predicts sharp increases in companies using A.I. for human resources, marketing, sales and product development. That is already happening: Legal firms, for example, have begun using A.I.-generated contracts, cutting out hours of work for lawyers. "The time is ripe for an explosion of A.I. innovation," it predicted last May.
As those innovations roll out, fund-raising has ramped up. The French A.I. start-up Mistral AI-- considered a European contender to OpenAI -- raised more than half a billion dollars in 2023. More than $ 200 million came from the Silicon Valley venture capital giant Andreessen Horowitz in a funding round that valued Mistral, just seven months old, at $ 2 billion.
But that might not be enough to create a general-purpose A.I. system of the kind that powers ChatGPT and that Mistral has in mind. "It's becoming clear the vast sums of money you need to be competitive," Clifford said. "If you want to build a general-purpose model, it may be that the amount of capital needed is so great, it makes it very tricky for traditional venture capital."
The story could be different for A.I. tools that serve a specific purpose, a category that spawned hundreds of start-ups in 2023. After a sharp downturn last year, A.I. venture funding is rising fast, with most invested in U.S. companies. Khosla said that this year he had backed 30 A.I. start-ups, including in India, Japan, Britain and Spain, companies which he said "are not afraid of the Big Tech guy." He expects A.I. funding to continue rising through at least 2024. "Every country wants to be in the game," he said. "That will accelerate the money flow, and the number of start-ups will keep accelerating."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Innovations; Technological change; Artificial intelligence; Startups; Funding; Venture capital; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Google DeepMind; NAICS: 513210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/27/business/dealbook/artificial-intelligence-investment-laws.html

Title: What to Expect in 2024 Regarding the Evolution Of Artificial Intelligence:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 30, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2907646242

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-expect-2024-regarding-evolution-artificial/docview/2907646242/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 30, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Haley's Blunder on Civil War Question Puts Her Coalition at Risk: [Correction]

Author: Weisman, Jonathan; Ulloa, Jazmine

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan; Ulloa, Jazmine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/haleys-blunder-on-civil-war-question-puts-her/docview/2907051979/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Nikki Haley's avoidance of mentioning slavery as a cause of the conflict, which she walked back on Thursday, threatened to dent her crossover appeal to independents and moderate Democrats.
Prominent Democratic donors, anxious about the increasingly authoritarian language of Donald J. Trump, have been calling on Democratic voters and independents to thwart the former president's comeback by voting for Nikki Haley in open Republican primary elections.
But Ms. Haley's political gaffe on Wednesday night, when the presidential hopeful and former governor of South Carolina stumbled through the causes of the Civil War with no mention of slavery, may make that appeal considerably harder just as she is edging closer to striking distance of Mr. Trump in New Hampshire.
Ms. Haley on Thursday walked back her answer about the causes of the Civil War, telling a New Hampshire interviewer, "Of course the Civil War was about slavery."
Her retreat came about 12 hours after a town-hall meeting in Berlin, N.H., a state that is central to her presidential ambitions, where she was asked about the Civil War's origins. Her answer focused on government overreach and "the freedoms of what people could and couldn't do," after she jokingly told the questioner he had posed a tough one. He then noted that she had not uttered the word "slavery."
"What do you want me to say about slavery?" Ms. Haley replied. The questioner thanked her for answering and Ms. Haley moved on: "Next question."
Democrats savaged her answer. The Democratic National Committee called her comments "vile" and her cleanup efforts "pathetic." Late Wednesday night, even President Biden rebuked her: "It was about slavery," he wrote on social media.
All of that came a month after Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase and a prominent Democratic donor, threw his support behind Ms. Haley, and implored other donors at The New York Times's DealBook Summit, "Even if you're a very liberal Democrat, I urge you, help Nikki Haley, too."
Reid Hoffman, the billionaire co-founder of LinkedIn and a major Democratic donor, gave $ 250,000 to a super PAC supporting Ms. Haley.
With recent polls showing Ms. Haley surging into second place in New Hampshire, her crossover appeal is becoming more relevant, for independents and for Democrats who might have registered as independents to vote in the Republican primary on Jan. 23, the first in the nation. To win the Granite State contest, she will most likely need those voters, just as Senator John McCain of Arizona did when he upset George W. Bush in the state's 2000 primary.
"If Democrats believe Republicans should hold their noses and vote for Joe Biden for the sake of democracy, they can model that in New Hampshire by crossing over and holding their noses to vote for Haley in the G.O.P. primary," said Ian Bassin, a democracy advocate who recently won a MacArthur Foundation "genius" grant for his work. "Not because she's a good candidate -- she's not -- but because Donald Trump is an existential threat to America and any vote to stop him is a service to the country."
Ms. Haley did not help that cause this week. Speaking on the radio show "The Pulse of New Hampshire" on Thursday morning, Ms. Haley, who famously removed the Confederate battle flag from the grounds of the South Carolina Capitol in Columbia, tried to make amends: "Yes, I know it was about slavery. I am from the South."
But she also insinuated that the question had come not from a Republican voter but from a political detractor, accusing Mr. Biden and Democrats of "sending plants" to her town-hall events.
"Why are they hitting me? See this for what it is," she said, adding, "They want to run against Trump."
Her Civil War comments did not go away. By Thursday afternoon, the campaigns of all of her rivals for the Republican nomination, including Mr. Trump and Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, had slammed her gaffe. Mr. DeSantis, who clashed with rivals over the summer about Florida's educational standards for the teaching of slavery, accused her of having "some problems with some basic American history."
He said, "It's not that difficult to identify and acknowledge the role slavery played in the Civil War."
The campaign of former Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, the field's most outspoken critic of Mr. Trump, promised to keep her Civil War answer front and center. "She didn't say what she said last night and today about this because she's dumb," Mr. Christie said on Thursday night at a campaign event in Epping, N.H. "She's not, she's smart, and she knows better." He added, "The reason she did it is just as bad if not worse, and she got everybody concerned about her candidacy. She did it because she's unwilling to offend anyone by telling the truth."
Ms. Haley's allies rushed to her defense. Tom Davis, a Haley surrogate and Republican state senator in South Carolina, said he understood "sharp elbows and rough questions" were part of any presidential campaign but argued that her critics had no place schooling Ms. Haley, an Indian American woman raised in the rural South, on racial division, racism and slavery.
"This space right here is where Nikki Haley needs no defending," he said, pointing to her historic victory as the first woman of color to lead the state.
Ms. Haley's remarks echoed a 150-year-old argument from segregationists that the Civil War was fundamentally about states' rights and economics, not about ending slavery. "I think the cause of the Civil War was basically how government was going to run," she said on Wednesday night, "the freedoms and what people could and couldn't do."
She tried to walk back that interpretation on Thursday, asking: "What's the lesson in all this? That freedom matters. And individual rights and liberties matter for all people. That's the blessing of America. That was a stain on America when we had slavery. But what we want is never relive it. Never let anyone take those freedoms away again."
Some Democrats implored potential crossover voters to stay with Ms. Haley as the most plausible alternative to Mr. Trump. On Thursday, the Trump campaign released a new television advertisement with the kind of fear-mongering and violent imagery that Democrats promoting Ms. Haley have denounced, warning of "the possibility of a Hamas attack" on the United States.
"The 2024 election is about Donald Trump, whose promised governing strategy is political violence and retribution," said Dmitri Mehlhorn, a prominent Democratic donor and finance executive with close ties to Mr. Hoffman. "If we really want to stop him and his MAGA allies who instigated and still defend Jan. 6, we have to swallow hard and team up with anyone who can beat them."
Ms. Haley's appeal as a candidate of moderation is mixed. As governor of South Carolina, she signed some of the harshest immigration and anti-abortion laws in the country at the time, as well as a stringent voter identification law that required photo ID at the ballot box.
But she also blocked a bill to stop transgender youths from using bathrooms that corresponded to their gender identity and drew national acclaim for her push to lower the Confederate battle flag after a white supremacist opened fire and killed nine Black worshipers at a Charleston church, including a beloved state senator, in 2015.
Now, on the campaign trail, she has sought to strike a softer tone on her record and some of the thorniest issues facing her party, trying to thread the needle on abortion and casting herself as a mother and daughter of immigrants who is prepared to help turn the page on the nation's era of divisive politics.
"Haley's refusal to talk honestly about slavery or race in America is a sad betrayal of her own story," said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California.
Still, several Democratic state lawmakers who worked with her on the effort to remove the flag, said they saw parallels between her remarks this week and those she made in a 2010 interview with Confederate heritage group leaders, in which she argued that the Confederate flag was "not something racist" but about tradition and heritage. In that exchange, she also said she could leverage her identity as a minority woman to fend off calls to boycott the flag.
After the church shooting shook South Carolina, Ms. Haley seized on the newfound political will among state lawmakers on both sides of the aisle, spurring accusations from some that the heavy lifting to remove the flag had taken place in the State Legislature.
"If she hadn't supported the flag coming down, yeah, it would have been much harder to get it down -- I think that's true," said Vincent Sheheen, a former Democratic state senator in South Carolina who unsuccessfully ran against Ms. Haley in 2010 and 2014. "But the key was kind of putting her in a box where she had to support a club."
Mr. Davis, the Haley ally who was elected in 2008 and was serving in the State Legislature at the time, argued that it was Ms. Haley who helped frame the debate as a matter of "reciprocal grace," telling him and others that the forgiveness the families of the victims had shown the killer was an act that needed to be returned.
"To say it would have happened without her, to minimize her role -- that is not just right," he said, recalling the political blowback she faced over the decision. "It was not a safe political position for her to take, especially in the Republican Party."
Nicholas Nehamas and Christopher Cameron contributed reporting.
Nicholas Nehamas and Christopher Cameron contributed reporting.
Photograph As governor of South Carolina, Nikki Haley removed the Confederate flag from the State Capitol after a church shooting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK ROHLMAN/THE GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Freedoms; Slavery; Political parties; Political campaigns; Civil war; Presidential elections; Abortion; Democracy; Voters; Political advertising; Flags

Location: New Hampshire; South Carolina; United States--US; Florida

People: Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Haley, Nikki

Title: Haley's Blunder on Civil War Question Puts Her Coalition at Risk:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 29, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2907051979

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/haleys-blunder-on-civil-war-question-puts-her/docview/2907051979/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 29, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Nikki Haley’s Civil War Uproar Risks Eroding a Moderate Coalition

Author: Weisman, Jonathan; Ulloa, Jazmine

Publication info: Weisman, Jonathan; Ulloa, Jazmine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nikki-haley-s-civil-war-uproar-risks-eroding/docview/2906968120/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Prominent Democratic donors, anxious about the increasingly authoritarian language of Donald Trump, have been calling on Democratic voters and independents to thwart the former president’s comeback by voting for Nikki Haley in open Republican primary elections.
But Haley’s political gaffe on Wednesday night, when the presidential hopeful and former governor of South Carolina stumbled through the causes of the Civil War with no mention of slavery, may make that appeal considerably harder just as she is edging closer to striking distance of Trump in New Hampshire.
Haley on Thursday walked back her answer about the causes of the Civil War, telling a New Hampshire interviewer, “Of course the Civil War was about slavery.”
Her retreat came about 12 hours after a town-hall meeting in Berlin, New Hampshire, a state that is central to her presidential ambitions, where she was asked about the Civil War’s origins. Her answer focused on government overreach and “the freedoms of what people could and couldn’t do,” after she jokingly told the questioner he had posed a tough one. He then noted that she had not uttered the word “slavery.”
“What do you want me to say about slavery?” Haley replied. “Next question.”
Democrats savaged her answer. The Democratic National Committee called her comments “vile” and her cleanup efforts “pathetic.” Late Wednesday night, even President Joe Biden rebuked her: “It was about slavery,” he wrote on social media.
All of that came a month after Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase and a prominent Democratic donor, threw his support behind Haley, and implored other donors at The New York Times’ DealBook Summit, “Even if you’re a very liberal Democrat, I urge you, help Nikki Haley, too.”
Reid Hoffman, the billionaire co-founder of LinkedIn and a major Democratic donor, gave $250,000 to a super PAC supporting Haley.
With recent polls showing Haley surging into second place in New Hampshire, her crossover appeal is becoming more relevant, for independents and for Democrats who might have registered as independents to vote in the Republican primary on Jan. 23, the first in the nation. To win the Granite State contest, she will most likely need those voters, just as Sen. John McCain of Arizona did when he upset George W. Bush in the state’s 2000 primary.
“If Democrats believe Republicans should hold their noses and vote for Joe Biden for the sake of democracy, they can model that in New Hampshire by crossing over and holding their noses to vote for Haley in the GOP primary,” said Ian Bassin, a democracy advocate who recently won a MacArthur Foundation “genius” grant for his work. “Not because she’s a good candidate — she’s not — but because Donald Trump is an existential threat to America and any vote to stop him is a service to the country.”
Haley did not help that cause this week. Speaking on the radio show “The Pulse of New Hampshire” on Thursday morning, Haley, who famously removed the Confederate battle flag from the grounds of the South Carolina Capitol in Columbia, tried to make amends: “Yes, I know it was about slavery. I am from the South.”
But she also insinuated that the question had come not from a Republican voter but from a political detractor, accusing Biden and Democrats of “sending plants” to her town-hall events.
“Why are they hitting me? See this for what it is,” she said, adding, “They want to run against Trump.”
Her Civil War comments did not go away. By Thursday afternoon, the campaigns of all of her rivals for the Republican nomination, including Trump and Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, had slammed her gaffe. DeSantis, who clashed with rivals over the summer about Florida’s educational standards for the topic of slavery, accused her of having “some problems with some basic American history.”
He said, “It’s not that difficult to identify and acknowledge the role slavery played in the Civil War.”
The campaign of former Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, the field’s most outspoken critic of Trump, promised to keep her Civil War answer front and center. “She didn’t say what she said last night and today about this because she’s dumb,” Christie said Thursday night at a campaign event in Epping, New Hampshire. “She’s not, she’s smart, and she knows better.” He added, “The reason she did it is just as bad if not worse, and she got everybody concerned about her candidacy. She did it because she’s unwilling to offend anyone by telling the truth.”
Haley’s allies rushed to her defense. Tom Davis, a Haley surrogate and Republican state senator in South Carolina, said he understood “sharp elbows and rough questions” were part of any presidential campaign but argued that her critics had no place schooling Haley, an Indian American woman raised in the rural South, on racial division, racism and slavery.
“This space right here is where Nikki Haley needs no defending,” he said, pointing to her historic victory as the first woman of color to lead the state.
Haley’s remarks echoed a 150-year-old argument from segregationists that the Civil War was fundamentally about states’ rights and economics, not about ending slavery. “I think the cause of the Civil War was basically how government was going to run,” she said Wednesday night, “the freedoms and what people could and couldn’t do.”
She tried to walk back that interpretation on Thursday, asking: “What’s the lesson in all this? That freedom matters. And individual rights and liberties matter for all people. That’s the blessing of America. That was a stain on America when we had slavery. But what we want is never relive it. Never let anyone take those freedoms away again.”
Some Democrats implored potential crossover voters to stay with Haley as the most plausible alternative to Trump. On Thursday, the Trump campaign released a new television advertisement with the kind of fear-mongering and violent imagery that Democrats promoting Haley have denounced, warning of “the possibility of a Hamas attack” on the United States.
“The 2024 election is about Donald Trump, whose promised governing strategy is political violence and retribution,” said Dmitri Mehlhorn, a prominent Democratic donor and finance executive with close ties to Hoffman. “If we really want to stop him and his MAGA allies who instigated and still defend Jan. 6, we have to swallow hard and team up with anyone who can beat them.”
Haley’s appeal as a candidate of moderation is mixed. As governor of South Carolina, she signed some of the harshest immigration and anti-abortion laws in the country at the time, as well as a stringent voter identification law that required photo ID at the ballot box.
But she also blocked a bill to stop transgender youths from using bathrooms that corresponded to their gender identity and drew national acclaim for her push to lower the Confederate battle flag after a white supremacist opened fire and killed nine Black worshippers at a Charleston church, including a beloved state senator, in 2015.
Now, on the campaign trail, she has sought to strike a softer tone on her record and some of the thorniest issues facing her party, trying to thread the needle on abortion and casting herself as a mother and daughter of immigrants who is prepared to help turn the page on the nation’s era of divisive politics.
“Haley’s refusal to talk honestly about slavery or race in America is a sad betrayal of her own story,” said Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif.
Still, several Democratic state lawmakers who worked with her on the effort to remove the flag said they saw parallels between her remarks this week and those she made in a 2010 interview with Confederate heritage group leaders, in which she argued that the Confederate flag was “not something racist” but about tradition and heritage. In that exchange, she also said she could leverage her identity as a minority woman to fend off calls to boycott the flag.
After the church shooting shook South Carolina, Haley seized on the newfound political will among state lawmakers on both sides of the aisle, spurring accusations from some that the heavy lifting to remove the flag had taken place in the state Legislature.
“If she hadn’t supported the flag coming down, yeah, it would have been much harder to get it down — I think that’s true,” said Vincent Sheheen, a former Democratic state senator in South Carolina who unsuccessfully ran against Haley in 2010 and 2014. “But the key was kind of putting her in a box where she had to support a club.”
Davis, the Haley ally who was elected in 2008 and was serving in the state Legislature at the time, argued that it was Haley who helped frame the debate as a matter of “reciprocal grace,” telling him and others that the forgiveness the families of the victims had shown the killer was an act that needed to be returned.
“To say it would have happened without her, to minimize her role — that is not just right,” he said, recalling the political blowback she faced over the decision. “It was not a safe political position for her to take, especially in the Republican Party.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Freedoms; Slavery; Political parties; Political campaigns; Civil war; Governors; Presidential elections; Abortion; Democracy; Voters; Political advertising; Flags

Location: New Hampshire; South Carolina; New York; United States--US; Florida

People: Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Haley, Nikki

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Civil War (Us) (1861 65); Dimon, James; Political Prisoners; States (Us); Slavery (Historical); New Hampshire; Desantis, Ron; Macarthur, John D And Catherine T, Foundation; Immigration And Emigration; Primaries And Caucuses; House Of Representatives; Hamas; Senate; Charleston (Sc); Florida; Minorities; Jpmorgan Chase & Company; United States; Christie, Christopher J; Linkedin Corporation; Arizona; Sheheen, Vincent A; Democracy (Theory And Philosophy); Youth; Presidential Election Of 2020; Voting Rights, Registration And Requirements; Bush, George W; Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Politics And Government; California; Race And Ethnicity; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Democratic National Committee; Project Democracy; Social Media; Presidential Election Of 2024; Political Action Committees; Arson; Boycotts; House Select Committee To Investigate The January 6th Attack; United States Politics And Government; Discrimination; Advertising And Marketing; Mccain, John; State Legislatures; Voting And Voters; Hate Crimes; Black People; Law And Legislation; South Carolina; New Jersey; Religion State Relations; Democratic Party; Columbia (Sc); Abortion; Polls And Public Opinion; Third Party Politics (Us); Churches (Buildings); Charleston, Sc, Shooting (2015); Republican Party; Haley, Nikki R; Flags, Emblems And Insignia; Confederate States Of America; Civil Rights And Liberties; Storming Of The Us Capitol (Jan, 2021); Weisman, Jonathan; Trump, Donald J; Terrorism; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Khanna, Ro; Campaign Finance; New York Times; Governors (Us); Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Nikki Haley’s Civil War Uproar Risks Eroding a Moderate Coalition

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-29T01:41:52Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2906968120

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nikki-haley-s-civil-war-uproar-risks-eroding/docview/2906968120/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 29, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Let's Revisit the Social Media Moments Of 2023 You Were Hoping to Forget: [Correction]

Author: Madison Malone Kircher

Publication info: Madison Malone Kircher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lets-revisit-social-media-moments-2023-you-were/docview/2906694704/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: You may have forgotten -- or wanted to forget -- what happened on the internet in 2023. We're here to refresh your memory.
Algorithms are getting good, alarmingly so, at feeding you content targeted to your weird and wonderful and even secret interests. Still, a lot of interesting stories end up falling outside our digital castle walls. This list is an attempt to rectify that, revisiting the people, trends, feuds and frenzies that took off on social media platforms in 2023 but might not have broken into your personal World Wide Web.
Did you see the olive oil executive trying to start beef with another olive oil executive on LinkedIn? How about the woman who gets paid thousands of dollars by pretending to be a video game character? Or the young Texan who is facing prison time after his lavish wedding blew up on TikTok? We've got you covered.
The Inexplicable
Hail, Caesar?
Find a man, any man, and ask him how often he thinks about the Roman Empire. According to TikTok, the answer is at least once a day. Viral videos on the platform inspired a "Saturday Night Live" sketch in November. "The Roman Empire, Ancient Rome," rapped the episode's guest host, Jason Momoa. "Five times a day, it pops into my dome."
Don't Call It a Snack
Girl Dinner was a big summertime TikTok trend. A number of people -- mostly young women, as the name implies -- showed off nicely arranged plates comprising a bit of this (cheese), a bit of that (bread, maybe) and a few other things (pickle spear, nuts, salami slice). Proponents said the trend freed them from the tyranny of traditional dinner. Detractors claimed it glorified eating disorders.
A Yassified Barney
After Barney the purple dinosaur got a makeover in February, baffled fans filled the internet with talk of the character's new teeth, brighter purple skin, larger eyes and perhaps even a bit of rhinoplasty. (Make that dinoplasty. I'll be here all article.)
The Return of Joe Cool
The "Peanuts" dog created by Charles M. Schulz found a new generation of fans this year. In April, the American Red Cross was inundated with young people looking to donate blood in exchange for a limited-edition Snoopy T-shirt. In October, The Atlantic labeled the cartoon beagle "The Hero Gen Z Needs."
A Broadway-Style Rap. What Could Go Wrong?
Ariana DeBose's opening number at the British Academy Film Awards in February quickly became a meme. Was it bizarre? Yes. Could you look away? Absolutely not. Ms. DeBose, a member of the original "Hamilton" cast, brought the earnest enthusiasm of a Broadway star to a rap that included the lines "Angela Bassett did the thing / Viola Davis, my Woman King." Social media loved it. And hated it.
An Underground Star
Sabrina Bahsoon, a law school graduate in her early twenties, racked up millions of online views this year by filming herself lip-syncing in the London Underground amid unsuspecting commuters. Tube Girl, as she was known, inspired numerous copycats.
The Edible
Gimme Five Margaritas!
On the campus of Louisiana State University in May, Cindy Smock, a 65-year-old evangelical preacher, tried to sell students on the benefits of abstinence by listing the sexual acts that women will supposedly perform after drinking certain numbers of margaritas. Shortly after a video of Sister Cindy's sermon hit social media, her words inspired a banger of a tune (known as "Gimme One Margarita") that became TikTok's song of the summer.
Mm, Mm, Good?
The writer and comedian Annie Rauwerda stirred up a big reaction on the internet -- and in her Brooklyn neighborhood -- when she cooked a pot of vegan stew for over a month this summer. Her concoction was based on the "perpetual stews" of culinary lore, and Ms. Rauwerda brought it to a playground each week for anyone who wanted a taste. As it bubbled and steamed in the pot, she encouraged people to toss in their own ingredients, so that it never tasted the same way twice.
The Milkshake of Death
In June, McDonald's added something to its menu: the Grimace Shake, named in honor of the purple bloblike creature who has long been a foil to the chain's signature clown. The beverage soon gave rise to a TikTok trend: In video after video, creators started out by pretending to give a positive review of the shake -- only to end up dead in a pool of purple goo. Did McDonald's mind? Nope. "This is free advertising," said Jonah Berger, a marketing professor at the University of Pennsylvania.
Atlanta Gets Keith Lee'd
Keith Lee, a food obsessive with more than 15 million TikTok followers, has posted influential reviews of restaurants in Chicago, Detroit and Los Angeles. But he might have had his biggest effect during a visit to Atlanta in the fall, when he gave voice to the gripes of local restaurant-goers by dragging establishments that charged extra for butter, syrup and hot sauce. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution noted Mr. Lee's power over the city's dining scene in a story headlined "Move over, Michelin, Atlanta just got Keith Lee'd."
The Technically Edible
A Viral Campus Concoction
Social media helped spread the popularity of a campus drink, BORG, an acronym for "blackout rage gallon." In viral TikTok videos, student mixologists filled plastic gallon jugs with water, alcohol, sweet flavorings and a hangover remedy, like Pedialyte. "You don't taste any of the liquor, which is the great part," one college student said. Officials were less pleased by the trend. In March, the Amherst Fire Department in Amherst, Mass., reported 28 requests for ambulance transports during a BORG-fueled party at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
The Pesto Prompt
Susi Vidal, a TikTok creator in Arizona, posted a video in September about how to make homemade pesto. "Call me crazy if you want," she says at the start, "but I've never liked store-bought pesto." With that, Ms. Vidal inspired a wave of TikTok users to repost the opening of her video as the intro to much crazier confessional stories of their own about ghosts, bad dates and stalkers.
Krispy Meme
It was an image that launched a thousand Halloween costumes: Justin Bieber and his wife, Hailey, at a Krispy Kreme counter. In the photo, the celebrity couple appears to be dressed for wildly different functions, with perhaps neither appropriately attired for ordering and eating fresh doughnuts. Ms. Bieber is wearing a strapless red minidress and red heels; Mr. Bieber is outfitted in gray shorts, yellow Crocs and a pink baseball cap perched atop a gray hood. The picture was meant to promote Ms. Bieber's cosmetics line -- and it had the desired effect on the social media hive mind.
Ice Cream So Good
The TikTok creator PinkyDoll became a social media celebrity in July because of the livestreams and videos in which she played blank-eyed video game characters, the kind who says inane things like "Mmm, ice cream so good," which became a catchphrase. Though she was the subject of some online mockery, PinkyDoll made thousands of dollars from her online work.
The Audible
Big on Social
"Hello, Christ? I'm 'bout to sin again." That's a line from "You Wish," a song by the Los Angeles rap duo Flyana Boss that was huge on social media this summer. In the fall, a snippet of the song "Water," by the South African singer Tyla, swept the internet, thanks, in part, to the TikTok dance challenge that went with it. (In case you had finally gotten that one out of your head, its refrain goes: "Make me sweat/ Make me hotter/ Make me lose my breath / Make me water.") "Water" was followed by another TikTok earworm, "It Girl," by Aliyah Bah, whose multilayered fashion sense, known as Aliyahcore, trended online earlier in the year.
Cute and Cuter
Social media also fueled the rise of a number of novelty songs. A ditty created by pet owners to soothe anxious dog in elevators became an anthem for anxious humans everywhere. Sing it with me: "She's so brave / She's well behaved / She is not afraid!" A fiendishly catchy song from the children's puppet show "Nanalan"' introduced millions of people to Mona and the program's other super-cute characters. "Who's that wonderful girl?" the "Nanalan"' song goes. "Could she be any cuter?"
Spoofs Become Hits
"Planet of the Bass," a parody of a '90s Eurodance track, had a moment in August. Some internet users were amused, and others were horrified, by its kooky music video and baffling lyrics ("Women are my favorite guy"). Shout out DJ Crazy Times, also known as Kyle Gordon, a comedian in Brooklyn. In a similar vein, DJ Mandy, a 19-year-old student in California, made ripples this year as the Internet's most inept disc jockey. Social media users couldn't resist sharing videos that showed her making awkward mash-ups and beat drops, complete with a nonsensical transition from Flo Rida to Taylor Swift.
The Quiet Game
"Look around, everybody on mute," Beyoncé sang each night of her "Renaissance" tour. That line, from the song "Energy," gave rise to a social media challenge wherein audiences competed to see which crowd could be the most hushed. If you couldn't get tickets, the best seat in the house was a TikTok livestream.
The Nuptial
Emily Getting Married
Emily Mariko burst onto the viral scene in 2021 thanks to her simple recipe for salmon leftovers. In June, her California wedding became the talk of TikTok. People couldn't get enough of the details, from the brown bridesmaids dresses to Ms. Mariko's many outfit changes. It is unclear if salmon was served.
Sofia, Also Getting Married
This "quiet luxury" ceremony was anything but quiet. Social media users could not stop talking about the wedding of Sofia Richie Grainge, the daughter of Lionel Richie, to Elliot Grainge, a music executive. The soft, subtle makeup! The looks! The slicked-back bun! The South of France backdrop! Months after the April event, TikTok creators were still borrowing from Ms. Richie Grainge's wedding-day style.
TikTok's Wedding Fail
Lunden Stallings and Olivia Bennett built a huge following on TikTok, partly because of their country-club fashion sense. And so their October ceremony was highly anticipated by fans, who dubbed it TikTok's royal wedding. The excitement, however, was short-lived. Days after the event, old tweets resurfaced in which one of the brides had repeatedly used a racial slur. The couple issued an apology and added an "anti-racist resources" page to their website, but the damage was done.
There Goes the Groom
Jacob LaGrone and Madelaine Brockway, a wealthy young couple from Texas, caused an online stir thanks to their lavish wedding, a five-day affair that included stops at the Versailles, the Paris Opera house and a reception headlined by Adam Levine of Maroon 5. Ms. Brockway posted several wedding videos on TikTok, all of which went viral and caused commenters to ask, Who are these people? The videos were deleted a few days after the ceremony, when surprising facts emerged about the groom. Namely, that he had fired a gun at police officers from Westworth Village and Westover Hills, Texas, who were trying to serve him with an indictment in March. Mr. LaGrone is now facing a potential life sentence.
The Theatrical
An Oily Fight
A niche drama in the world of olive oil startups went online in April. The chief executive and co-founder of Graza logged on to LinkedIn -- a site not known as a forum for beefs -- to accuse another olive oil company of stealing his idea. The idea being a squeeze bottle.
Mascara Fraud?
Mikayla Nogueira, a beauty influencer known for her Boston accent, caused a bit of an online ruckus in January after posting an ad for L'Oreal Telescopic Life mascara. In the video, Ms. Nogueira appears to be wearing false eyelashes, rather than the product she was promoting. (Someone fibbed on the internet? For money? Say it ain't so!)
To Catch a Tabi Thief
Alex Dougé, a social media coordinator in New York, met a man named Josh on Tinder and brought him back to her apartment. The next morning she discovered that her Tabi Mary-Janes, a pricey shoe from the brand Margiela, were missing. After Ms. Dougé recapped the saga on TikTok, internet sleuths quickly located the man. It turned out that he had indeed stolen the prize shoes -- and given them to his girlfriend! Oh, the drama! Ms. Dougé eventually got her Tabis back, and social media welcomed a new addition to the roster of awful internet men.
Riverboat Brawl
A brawl on the Alabama riverfront made national news after a video of the incident went viral in August. The fight came about after five white boaters attacked a Black riverboat captain, who had instructed them to dock their pontoon elsewhere. A Black bystander joined the melee on the captain's behalf, wielding a folding chair as a weapon. In the brawl's aftermath, the humble folding chair became a symbol of resistance.
Viral Trial
Gwyneth Paltrow on trial for an accident on the slopes of the Deer Valley Resort in Utah was the internet gift that kept on giving. Social media platforms were blanketed with memes about the proceedings in March as jurors heard testimony on who was to blame for the collision -- the Oscar-winning actress or the retired optometrist who had sued her for more than $ 300,000. Online highlights included Ms. Paltrow's answer to the question of the "losses" she had suffered because of the incident. "Well," she said, "we lost half a day of skiing." The jury found her Gwynocent.
Apartment Madness
Emma Ganzarain, a resource management employee in Oslo, just wanted to share photos of her redecorated apartment with her TikTok followers. Before she moved in, she explained, her boyfriend had lived there by himself, and she believed that she had brought some order to the place. Outraged commenters did not agree, accusing Ms. Ganzarain of turning a homey apartment into a sad beige nightmare.
The Sartorial
These Boots Were Not Made For Walking
Fashion or marketing ploy? Cartoonish red boots were the talk of TikTok for a moment in February. The bloated footwear was designed by MSCHF, a New York collective with a knack for designing clothes and household goods that send the internet into a frenzy.
Law Roach (Kinda) Retires
Law Roach, an award-winning stylist for celebrities including Anne Hathaway and Celine Dion, created some confusion among the more fashion-conscious quarters of social media in March, when he abruptly announced that he was retiring, only to walk days later alongside Naomi Campbell in a runway show. He later clarified that he was retiring only from styling.
The Bed Bugs of Paris
What's French for schadenfreude? Amid the glam of Paris fashion week, a story crawled into the headlines. Bedbugs! Everywhere! Videos on social media raised the alarm by showing the little creatures scampering through the Paris Métro.
Platform as Runway
Kristina Avakyan, a New York resident, gained popularity on TikTok for videos in which she modeled eccentric outfits on subway platforms. She faced criticism after an interview with The Cut, in which she said that people in Harlem and Queens don't understand her fashion sense.
Endless A.I. Portraits
Throughout the year, A.I. generators spat out an images of people looking like modified, slightly shinier versions of themselves (with, occasionally, an extra finger or two). The A.I. yearbook photo generator was particularly popular on Instagram. But viewers beware! Pope Francis was not papped walking around in a puffy white Balenciaga coat. That was just some fairly convincing A.I. art.
The Mostly Delightful
A Hairbrush Microphone Masterpiece
The Mattison twins, a pair of TikTok creators, performed a funny lip-sync cover of Lady A's "Need You Now," singing into a hair brush suspended from the ceiling. (This hairbrush mic is one of the comedy duo's go-to props.) The low-quality video, posted in February, recalled the simpler comedy of the Vine era (2013-2017, R.I.P.).
Dances With Knives
An Instagram video of Britney Spears dancing in her home wielding two large knives grabbed the attention of viewers in September. Some concerned fans reported the video to the police, to Ms. Spears's chagrin. "So unacceptable for cops to listen to random fans and come in to my home unwarranted," she wrote on Instagram. "I've been bullied in my home for so long now ... ITS ENOUGH!" She later added that the knives were props.
So Unfair
In perhaps the most perfect nepo baby behavior of all time, Romy Mars, the teenage daughter of the director Sofia Coppola and the singer Thomas Mars, was grounded for (wait for it) trying to charter a helicopter from New York to Maryland using her father's credit card. "I wanted to have dinner with my camp friend." Ms. Mars said in a TikTok. She added that her parents had rules against her using social media.
The Streamable
A Woman of the People
In a scene from "Beckham," the Netflix documentary series about David Beckham, his wife, Victoria Beckham, is seen telling the camera that she grew up "very working class." At that moment, her husband pokes his head into the room to ask what kind of car her father drove her to school in. The former Spice Girl tries to duck the question before finally answering, "In the '80s, my dad had a Rolls-Royce." After the clip went viral, Ms. Beckham embraced it, posting it on her own TikTok account.
Feud? What Feud?
The "Sex and the City" cast member Kim Cattrall made a brief cameo in season two of the show's reboot, "And Just Like That ..." She was not in the same frame as any of the other members of the famous foursome, and if you blinked you'd have missed her. But, still, there she was. Our Samantha. Her minutes-long appearance inspired so many memes, tweets and TikToks you might have thought she was there all along.
The Debatable
Ozempic Mania
Weight loss drugs made their way to the online set this year, with some influencers casting stigma aside and unabashedly proclaiming their Ozempic use.
Djerf Dupe Drama
Matilda Djerf, a popular Swedish influencer and a founder of the fashion brand Djerf Avenue, irked fans when her team started reporting TikTok videos that mentioned places to purchase dupes -- inexpensive copies -- of her pricey designs.
Rocky Hockey Romance
Drama rippled through a niche literary community -- fans of hockey romance novels -- when Felicia Wennberg, the wife of the N.H.L. player Alex Wennberg, said that certain book lovers had become "predatory and exploiting" in their comments about her husband.
Bud Light Backlash
In April, the transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney partnered with Bud Light for a video promoting the brand. The online ad featuring Ms. Mulvaney angered many conservatives, who called for a boycott. As sales of the beer plunged, the musician Kid Rock posted a video that showed him shooting a stack of Bud Light cases. Months later, TMZ posted a video of him drinking the very same beer at a concert.
Taylor Made Travis Famous. Right?
The football star Travis Kelce was already a household name before he was romantically linked to one of the most famous women on the planet. This fall, as a prank, many women filmed themselves telling men -- usually husbands or boyfriends -- that Ms. Swift was going to put Mr. Kelce on the map. Based on the videos, it seems like every guy took the bait.
Arielle Chapin, Nancy Coleman, Anna Foley, Jessica Grose, Becky Hughes, Natasha Janardan, Joumana Khatib, Ran Lee, Phoebe Lett, Lauren McCarthy, Jordyn Holman, Callie Holtermann, Tanya Sichynsky, Dodai Stewart, Remy Tumin and Lindsey Wiebe contributed reporting.
Photograph PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIORGIO COSULICH/GETTY IMAGES; ALANA LAVERTY; MATTEL; CRISTINA PEREZ; SABRINA BAHSOON; STUART WILSON/BAFTA, VIA GETTY IMAGES; CHRISTOPHER TESTANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; AMIR HAMJA/ THE NEW YORK TIMES; MCDONALD'S; JORDAN STRAUSS/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D4); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES; JULIE BENNETT/ GETTY IMAGES; RICK BOWMER/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; EMMA GANZARAIN; SIMBARASHE CHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KRISTINA AVAKYAN; A.I. GENERATED; DEREK WHITE/GETTY IMAGES; THE MATTISON TWINS; VALERIE MACON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; GILBERT CARRASQUILLO/GC IMAGES; GARETH CATTERMOLE/GETTY IMAGES; CRAIG BLANKENHORN/MAX; LEE SMITH/REUTERS; LOULOU D'AKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; STEPH CHAMBERS/GETTY IMAGES; NICK WASS/ASSOCIATED PRESS; SARAH STIER/GETTY IMAGE) (D5) This article appeared in print on page D4.

Subject: Comedians; Young adults; Rap music; Internet; Computer & video games; Trends; Roman civilization; Celebrities; Social networks; Disc jockeys; Women; Year in review

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Los Angeles California; Atlanta Georgia

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Title: Let's Revisit the Social Media Moments Of 2023 You Were Hoping to Forget:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 28, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2906694704

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lets-revisit-social-media-moments-2023-you-were/docview/2906694704/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 28, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Top Social Media Trends of 2023: Roman Empire, Grimace Shake, Keith Lee and More

Author: Madison Malone Kircher

Publication info: Madison Malone Kircher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/top-social-media-trends-2023-roman-empire-grimace/docview/2906607957/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Algorithms are getting good, alarmingly so, at feeding you content targeted to your weird and wonderful and even secret interests. Still, a lot of interesting stories end up falling outside our digital castle walls. This list is an attempt to rectify that, revisiting the people, trends, feuds and frenzies that took off on social media platforms in 2023 but might not have broken into your personal World Wide Web.
Did you see the olive oil executive trying to start beef with another olive oil executive on LinkedIn? How about the woman who gets paid thousands of dollars by pretending to be a video game character? Or the young Texan who is facing prison time after his lavish wedding blew up on TikTok? We’ve got you covered.
THE INEXPLICABLE
Hail, Caesar?
Find a man, any man, and ask him how often he thinks about the Roman Empire. According to TikTok, the answer is at least once a day. Viral videos on the platform inspired a “Saturday Night Live” sketch in November. “The Roman Empire, Ancient Rome,” rapped the episode’s guest host, Jason Momoa. “Five times a day, it pops into my dome.”
Don’t Call It a Snack
Girl Dinner was a big summertime TikTok trend. A number of people — mostly young women, as the name implies — showed off nicely arranged plates comprising a bit of this (cheese), a bit of that (bread, maybe) and a few other things (pickle spear, nuts, salami slice). Proponents said the trend freed them from the tyranny of traditional dinner. Detractors claimed it glorified eating disorders.
A Yassified Barney
After Barney the purple dinosaur got a makeover in February, baffled fans filled the internet with talk of the character’s new teeth, brighter purple skin, larger eyes and perhaps even a bit of rhinoplasty. (Make that dinoplasty . I’ll be here all article.)
The Return of Joe Cool
The “Peanuts” dog created by Charles M. Schulz found a new generation of fans this year. In April, the American Red Cross was inundated with young people looking to donate blood in exchange for a limited-edition Snoopy T-shirt. In October, The Atlantic labeled the cartoon beagle “The Hero Gen Z Needs.”
A Broadway-Style Rap. What Could Go Wrong?
Ariana DeBose’s opening number at the British Academy Film Awards in February quickly became a meme. Was it bizarre? Yes. Could you look away? Absolutely not. DeBose, a member of the original “Hamilton” cast, brought the earnest enthusiasm of a Broadway star to a rap that included the lines “Angela Bassett did the thing / Viola Davis, my Woman King.” Social media loved it. And hated it.
An Underground Star
Sabrina Bahsoon, a law school graduate in her early 20s, racked up millions of online views this year by filming herself lip-syncing in the London Underground amid unsuspecting commuters. Tube Girl, as she was known, inspired numerous copycats.
THE EDIBLE
Gimme Five Margaritas!
On the campus of Louisiana State University in May, Cindy Smock, a 65-year-old evangelical preacher, tried to sell students on the benefits of abstinence by listing the sexual acts that women will supposedly perform after drinking certain numbers of margaritas. Shortly after a video of Sister Cindy’s sermon hit social media, her words inspired a banger of a tune (known as “Gimme One Margarita”) that became TikTok’s song of the summer.
Mm, Mm, Good?
Writer-comedian Annie Rauwerda stirred up a big reaction on the internet — and in her New York City neighborhood — when she cooked a pot of vegan stew for over a month this summer. Her concoction was based on the “perpetual stews” of culinary lore, and Rauwerda brought it to a playground each week for anyone who wanted a taste. As it bubbled and steamed in the pot, she encouraged people to toss in their own ingredients, so that it never tasted the same way twice.
The Milkshake of Death
In June, McDonald’s added something to its menu: the Grimace Shake, named in honor of the purple bloblike creature that has long been a foil to the chain’s signature clown. The beverage soon gave rise to a TikTok trend: In video after video, creators started out by pretending to give a positive review of the shake — only to end up dead in a pool of purple goo. Did McDonald’s mind? Nope. “This is free advertising,” said Jonah Berger, a marketing professor at the University of Pennsylvania.
Atlanta Gets Keith Lee’d
Keith Lee, a food obsessive with more than 15 million TikTok followers, has posted influential reviews of restaurants in Chicago, Detroit and Los Angeles. But he might have had his biggest effect during a visit to Atlanta in the fall, when he gave voice to the gripes of local restaurant-goers by dragging establishments that charged extra for butter, syrup and hot sauce. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution noted Lee’s power over the city’s dining scene in a story headlined “Move over, Michelin, Atlanta just got Keith Lee’d.”
THE TECHNICALLY EDIBLE
A Viral Campus Concoction
Social media helped spread the popularity of a campus drink, BORG, an acronym for “blackout rage gallon.” In viral TikTok videos, student mixologists filled plastic gallon jugs with water, alcohol, sweet flavorings and a hangover remedy, like Pedialyte. “You don’t taste any of the liquor, which is the great part,” one college student said. Officials were less pleased by the trend. In March, the Amherst Fire Department in Amherst, Massachusetts, reported 28 requests for ambulance transports during a BORG-fueled party at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
The Pesto Prompt
Susi Vidal, a TikTok creator in Arizona, posted a video in September about how to make homemade pesto. “Call me crazy if you want,” she says at the start, “but I’ve never liked store-bought pesto.” With that, Vidal inspired a wave of TikTok users to repost the opening of her video as the intro to much crazier confessional stories of their own about ghosts, bad dates and stalkers.
Krispy M eme
It was an image that launched a thousand Halloween costumes: Justin Bieber and his wife, Hailey, at a Krispy Kreme counter. In the photo, the celebrity couple appears to be dressed for wildly different functions, with perhaps neither appropriately attired for ordering and eating fresh doughnuts. Hailey Bieber is wearing a strapless red minidress and red heels; Justin Bieber is outfitted in gray shorts, yellow Crocs and a pink baseball cap perched atop a gray hood. The picture was meant to promote Hailey Bieber’s cosmetics line — and it had the desired effect on the social media hive mind.
Ice Cream So Good
TikTok creator PinkyDoll became a social media celebrity in July because of the livestreams and videos in which she played blank-eyed video game characters, the kind who says inane things like “Mmm, ice cream so good,” which became a catchphrase. Though she was the subject of some online mockery, PinkyDoll made thousands of dollars from her online work.
THE AUDIBLE
Big on Social
“Hello, Christ? I’m ’bout to sin again.” That’s a line from “You Wish,” a song by Los Angeles rap duo Flyana Boss that was huge on social media this summer. In the fall, a snippet of the song “Water,” by South African singer Tyla, swept the internet, thanks, in part, to the TikTok dance challenge that went with it. (In case you had finally gotten that one out of your head, its refrain goes: “Make me sweat / Make me hotter / Make me lose my breath / Make me water.”) “Water” was followed by another TikTok earworm, “It Girl,” by Aliyah Bah, whose multilayered fashion sense, known as Aliyahcore, trended online earlier in the year.
Cute and Cuter
Social media also fueled the rise of a number of novelty songs. A ditty created by pet owners to soothe an anxious dog in elevators became an anthem for anxious humans everywhere. Sing it with me: “She’s so brave / She’s well behaved / She is not afraid!” A fiendishly catchy song from the children’s puppet show “Nanalan’” introduced millions of people to Mona and the program’s other super-cute characters. “Who’s that wonderful girl?” the “Nanalan’” song goes. “Could she be any cuter?”
Spoofs Become Hits
“Planet of the Bass,” a parody of a ’90s Eurodance track, had a moment in August. Some internet users were amused, and others were horrified, by its kooky music video and baffling lyrics (“Women are my favorite guy”). Shoutout to DJ Crazy Times, aka Kyle Gordon, a comedian in New York City. In a similar vein, DJ Mandy, a 19-year-old student in California, made ripples this year as the Internet’s most inept disc jockey. Social media users couldn’t resist sharing videos that showed her making awkward mash-ups and beat drops, complete with a nonsensical transition from Flo Rida to Taylor Swift.
The Quiet Game
“Look around, everybody on mute,” Beyoncé sang each night of her “Renaissance” tour. That line, from the song “Energy,” gave rise to a social media challenge wherein audiences competed to see which crowd could be the most hushed. If you couldn’t get tickets, the best seat in the house was a TikTok livestream.
THE NUPTIAL
Emily Getting Married
Emily Mariko burst onto the viral scene in 2021 thanks to her simple recipe for salmon leftovers. In June, her California wedding became the talk of TikTok. People couldn’t get enough of the details, from the brown bridesmaids dresses to Mariko’s many outfit changes. It is unclear if salmon was served.
Sofia, Also Getting Married
This “quiet luxury” ceremony was anything but quiet. Social media users could not stop talking about the wedding of Sofia Richie Grainge, the daughter of Lionel Richie, to Elliot Grainge, a music executive. The soft, subtle makeup! The looks! The slicked-back bun! The South of France backdrop! Months after the April event, TikTok creators were still borrowing from Richie Grainge’s wedding-day style.
TikTok’s Wedding Fail
Lunden Stallings and Olivia Bennett built a huge following on TikTok, partly because of their country-club fashion sense. And so their October ceremony was highly anticipated by fans, who dubbed it TikTok’s royal wedding. The excitement, however, was short-lived. Days after the event, old tweets resurfaced in which one of the brides had repeatedly used a racial slur. The couple issued an apology and added an “anti-racist resources” page to their website, but the damage was done.
There Goes the Groom
Jacob LaGrone and Madelaine Brockway, a wealthy young couple from Texas, caused an online stir thanks to their lavish wedding, a five-day affair that included stops at the Versailles, the Paris Opera house and a reception headlined by Adam Levine of Maroon 5. Brockway posted several wedding videos on TikTok, all of which went viral and caused commenters to ask, Who are these people? The videos were deleted a few days after the ceremony, when surprising facts emerged about the groom. Namely, that he had fired a gun at police officers from Westworth Village and Westover Hills, Texas, who were trying to serve him with an indictment in March. LaGrone is now facing a potential life sentence.
THE THEATRICAL
An Oily Fight
A niche drama in the world of olive oil startups went online in April. The CEO and co-founder of Graza logged on to LinkedIn — a site not known as a forum for beefs — to accuse another olive oil company of stealing his idea. The idea being a squeeze bottle.
Mascara Fraud?
Mikayla Nogueira, a beauty influencer known for her Boston accent, caused a bit of an online ruckus in January after posting an ad for L’Oreal Telescopic Life mascara. In the video, Nogueira appears to be wearing false eyelashes, rather than the product she was promoting. (Someone fibbed on the internet? For money? Say it ain’t so!)
To Catch a Tabi Thief
Alex Dougé, a social media coordinator in New York, met a man named Josh on Tinder and brought him back to her apartment. The next morning she discovered that her Tabi Mary-Janes, a pricey shoe from the brand Margiela, were missing. After Dougé recapped the saga on TikTok, internet sleuths quickly located the man. It turned out that he had indeed stolen the prize shoes — and given them to his girlfriend! Oh, the drama! Dougé eventually got her Tabis back, and social media welcomed a new addition to the roster of awful internet men.
Riverboat Brawl
A brawl on the Alabama riverfront made national news after a video of the incident went viral in August. The fight came about after five white boaters attacked a Black riverboat captain, who had instructed them to dock their pontoon elsewhere. A Black bystander joined the melee on the captain’s behalf, wielding a folding chair as a weapon. In the brawl’s aftermath, the humble folding chair became a symbol of resistance.
Viral Trial
Gwyneth Paltrow on trial for an accident on the slopes of the Deer Valley Resort in Utah was the internet gift that kept on giving. Social media platforms were blanketed with memes about the proceedings in March as jurors heard testimony on who was to blame for the collision — the Oscar-winning actress or the retired optometrist who had sued her for more than $300,000. Online highlights included Paltrow’s answer to the question of the “losses” she had suffered because of the incident. “Well,” she said, “we lost half a day of skiing.” The jury found her Gwynocent.
Apartment Madness
Emma Ganzarain, a resource management employee in Oslo, Norway, just wanted to share photos of her redecorated apartment with her TikTok followers. Before she moved in, she explained, her boyfriend had lived there by himself, and she believed that she had brought some order to the place. Outraged commenters did not agree, accusing Ganzarain of turning a homey apartment into a sad beige nightmare.
THE SARTORIAL
These Boots Were Not Made For Walking
Fashion or marketing ploy? Cartoonish red boots were the talk of TikTok for a moment in February. The bloated footwear was designed by MSCHF, a New York collective with a knack for designing clothes and household goods that send the internet into a frenzy.
Law Roach (Kinda) Retires
Law Roach, an award-winning stylist for celebrities including Anne Hathaway and Celine Dion, created some confusion among the more fashion-conscious quarters of social media in March, when he abruptly announced that he was retiring, only to walk days later alongside Naomi Campbell in a runway show. He later clarified that he was retiring only from styling.
The Bedbugs of Paris
What’s French for schadenfreude? Amid the glam of Paris Fashion Week, a story crawled into the headlines. Bedbugs! Everywhere! Videos on social media raised the alarm by showing the little creatures scampering through the Paris Métro.
Platform as Runway
Kristina Avakyan, a New York resident, gained popularity on TikTok for videos in which she modeled eccentric outfits on subway platforms. She faced criticism after an interview with The Cut, in which she said that people in Harlem and Queens don’t understand her fashion sense.
Endless AI Portraits
Throughout the year, AI generators spat out images of people looking like modified, slightly shinier versions of themselves (with, occasionally, an extra finger or two). The AI yearbook photo generator was particularly popular on Instagram. But viewers beware! Pope Francis was not papped walking around in a puffy white Balenciaga coat. That was just some fairly convincing AI art.
THE MOSTLY DELIGHTFUL
A Hairbrush Microphone Masterpiece
The Mattison twins, a pair of TikTok creators, performed a funny lip-sync cover of Lady A’s “Need You Now,” singing into a hair brush suspended from the ceiling. (This hairbrush mic is one of the comedy duo’s go-to props.) The low-quality video, posted in February, recalled the simpler comedy of the Vine era (2013-17, RIP).
Dances With Knives
An Instagram video of Britney Spears dancing in her home wielding two large knives grabbed the attention of viewers in September. Some concerned fans reported the video to the police, to Spears’ chagrin. “So unacceptable for cops to listen to random fans and come in to my home unwarranted,” she wrote on Instagram. “I’ve been bullied in my home for so long now … ITS ENOUGH!” She later added that the knives were props.
So Unfair
In perhaps the most perfect nepo baby behavior of all time, Romy Mars, the teenage daughter of director Sofia Coppola and singer Thomas Mars, was grounded for (wait for it) trying to charter a helicopter from New York to Maryland using her father’s credit card. “I wanted to have dinner with my camp friend,” Romy Mars said in a TikTok. She added that her parents had rules against her using social media.
THE STREAMABLE
A Woman of the People
In a scene from “Beckham,” the Netflix documentary series about David Beckham, his wife, Victoria Beckham, is seen telling the camera that she grew up “very working class.” At that moment, her husband pokes his head into the room to ask what kind of car her father drove her to school in. The former Spice Girl tries to duck the question before finally answering, “In the ’80s, my dad had a Rolls-Royce.” After the clip went viral, Beckham embraced it, posting it on her own TikTok account.
Feud? What Feud?
“Sex and the City” cast member Kim Cattrall made a brief cameo in season two of the show’s reboot, “And Just Like That …”. She was not in the same frame as any of the other members of the famous foursome, and if you blinked you’d have missed her. But, still, there she was. Our Samantha. Her minutes-long appearance inspired so many memes, tweets and TikToks you might have thought she was there all along.
THE DEBATABLE
Ozempic Mania
Weight loss drugs made their way to the online set this year, with some influencers casting stigma aside and unabashedly proclaiming their Ozempic use.
Djerf Dupe Drama
Matilda Djerf, a popular Swedish influencer and a founder of the fashion brand Djerf Avenue, irked fans when her team started reporting TikTok videos that mentioned places to purchase dupes — inexpensive copies — of her pricey designs.
Rocky Hockey Romance
Drama rippled through a niche literary community — fans of hockey romance novels — when Felicia Wennberg, the wife of NHL player Alex Wennberg, said that certain book lovers had become “predatory and exploiting” in their comments about her husband.
Bud Light Backlash
In April, transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney partnered with Bud Light for a video promoting the brand. The online ad featuring Mulvaney angered many conservatives, who called for a boycott. As sales of the beer plunged, musician Kid Rock posted a video that showed him shooting a stack of Bud Light cases. Months later, TMZ posted a video of him drinking the very same beer at a concert.
Taylor Made Travis Famous. Right?
Football star Travis Kelce was already a household name before he was romantically linked to one of the most famous women on the planet. This fall, as a prank, many women filmed themselves telling men — usually husbands or boyfriends — that Swift was going to put Kelce on the map. Based on the videos, it seems like every guy took the bait.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Comedians; Young adults; Rap music; Internet; Computer & video games; Trends; Roman civilization; Celebrities; Social networks; Disc jockeys; Women

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Massachusetts; New York City New York; Los Angeles California; Atlanta Georgia

People: Bieber, Justin

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Alcohol Abuse; British Academy Of Film And Television; Djerf Avenue (Fashion Label); Orderliness And Clutter; Balenciaga (Fashion Label); Netflix Inc; Movies; Massachusetts; Atlantic Monthly; Assaults; The Hero (Play); Cattrall, Kim; Restaurants; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Celebrities; University Of Massachusetts; Great Britain; Amherst College; New Yo rk City; Blood Donation; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Linkedin Corporation; Bieber, Justin; Hair; Arizona; Dion, Celine; Atlanta Journal Constitution; Long, Michael R; Youth; Sofia (Englewood, Nj, Restaurant); Hockey, Ice; Levine, Adam; Teenagers And Adolescence; Prison Guards And Corrections Officers; Bugs (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Referendums; Two Thousand Twenty Three; California; Maroon 5 (Music Group); Atlanta Journal; Race And Ethnicity; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Djerf, Matilda; Gordon, Kyle (Dj Crazy Times); Dancing; Alabama; TmzCom; Halloween; Culture (Arts); Vine Labs Inc; South Africa; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Amherst (Mass); Cocktails And Mixed Drinks; Lee, Keith (1981 ); Roach, Law; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Joe (Singer); Roman Civilization; Online Advertising; Weddings And Engagements; Oils And Fats; Versailles (France); Railroads; Fire Department (Nyc); Rolls Royce Motor Cars; Disc Jockeys; Richie, Lionel; Boycotts; Sinon, Fedha (Pinkydoll); Flo (Music Group); Texas; Discrimination; Crocs Inc; Women And Girls; Roman Catholic Church; Tinder (Mobile App); Music; Taste; Wennberg, Alex (1994 ); Pennsylvania; Awards, Decorations And Honors; Heat And Heat Waves; Computers And The Internet; Kid Rock; Los Angeles (Calif); Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Hate Crimes; Advertising And Marketing; Utah; Senses And Sensation; Hello!; Kelce, Travis; Weight; Michelin Guide; Law And Legislation; Sweden; Paris (France); Mars (Planet); Rumors And Misinformation; Richie, Sofia (1998 ); Atlanta (Ga); Transgender; Tiktok (Bytedance); Education (K 12); Lifestyle; Dating And Relationships; British Pound (Currency); Polls And Public Opinion; Condiments; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Stars And Galaxies; Home Repairs And Improvements; Computer And Video Games; Hathaway, Anne; Generation Z; Beer; Fires And Firefighters; Executive Compensation; Pop And Rock Music; Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc; Michelin Group; Broadway (Manhattan, Ny); Nepotism; Coppola, Sofia; Space And Astronomy; Louisiana State University; Robberies And Thefts; Opera; Swift, Taylor; Paris Opera; University Of Maryland; Boston (Mass); Debose, Ariana; Campbell, Naomi; Instant Messaging; Seasons And Months; Sex; Television; France; Beckham, Victoria; Davis, Viola; High Net Worth Individuals; Spears, Britney; Queens (Nyc); Bedbugs; Autumn (Season); Web Original Programming; Shoes And Boots; Anger (Emotion); Mulvaney, Dylan (1996 ); Street Performers; University Of Massachusetts Amherst; Paltrow, Gwyneth; University Of Pennsylvania; Colleges And Universities; Chicago (Ill); Models (Professional); Boss, Hugo, Fashions Inc; American Red Cross; Numbers; Stalking (Crime); Apologies; Thief (Video Game); Start Ups; Fish And Other Marine Life; Paris Fashion Week; Maryland; Peanuts (Comic Strip); Fans (Persons); Schulz, Charles M; Beverages; Everywhere Llc; University Of Texas At Austin; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological

Title: Top Social Media Trends of 2023: Roman Empire, Grimace Shake, Keith Lee and More

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 27, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-27T23:03:58Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2906607957

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/top-social-media-trends-2023-roman-empire-grimace/docview/2906607957/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Yes, Billionaires Can Build Cities: [Op-Ed]

Author: Glaeser, Edward L; Ratti, Carlo

Publication info: Glaeser, Edward L; Ratti, Carlo. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yes-billionaires-can-build-cities/docview/2906085681/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A company backed by Silicon Valley's most powerful investors, including the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman and the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, assembled a land empire outside San Francisco and announced a bold vision to build a brand-new city -- and was immediately castigated by the world's urbanists.
Critics describe the effort by the company, Flannery Associates, as greed in urbanism's clothing that would create an environmental disaster in the form of a mere commuter suburb. As more details emerge about the ugly tactics used against local landowners, the project appears increasingly likely to drown in its creators' hubris. But beneath Flannery Associates' accumulating mistakes remains an important idea: The Bay Area needs a lot more housing, and we may need privately built cities to get there.
There is nothing new about cities built by investors and corporations. Celebration, Fla., was developed by the Walt Disney Company and includes buildings from architectural giants like Philip Johnson and Robert A.M. Stern. (Disney has sold off most of its holdings.) Not far from Seoul, the Songdo International Business District was developed by a consortium of real estate developers; it is planned around a two-square-mile eco-friendly, high-tech downtown that is meant to house over 60,000 people.
There is also no rule that cities planned by governments are morally superior. In 1910 the mayor of Baltimore, Barry Mahool, signed America's first racial zoning ordinance, explicitly barring Black Americans from moving into majority-white city blocks, leaving the city hypersegregated for decades. During the 1960s, the high-water mark of racial segregation, a private developer named James Rouse planned an integrated city in nearby Columbia, Md. Columbia is not perfect, but it remains racially diverse, and according to data from the Opportunity Atlas, it does vastly better than nearby Baltimore at promoting upward mobility for Black American children.
Another planned community, the Woodlands in Texas, was born out of the Columbia experience. It offers a powerful example of how a privately conceived city can provide a great deal of public good.
George Phydias Mitchell, a pioneer producer of natural gas, was inspired to create the community after attending a symposium hosted by Columbia's developers. He hired many of Mr. Rouse's former employees and even hired a Wharton-trained Lutheran minister to help provide appropriate support for social, particularly religious, activities.
It took 40 years for the population of the Woodlands to grow from 8,400 (in 1980) to 114,000 (in 2020). But patience paid off: The schools-ranking website Niche lists it as one of the best U.S. cities to live in.
Today, with median housing values of $ 456,400 and median gross monthly rent of $ 1,723, the development is no longer the bargain that it once was. Still, the prices are a sign that people like it. And while the Woodlands does not share Columbia's history of racial equality, 19 percent of its households are Hispanic, and the Opportunity Atlas shows that upward mobility for low- and middle-income Hispanic children is higher there than in most of Houston.
Deng Xiaoping justified China's move to free enterprise by saying that "it doesn't matter whether a cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice." The California version should be that it doesn't matter if the developer is private or public, as long as it builds the housing that the state needs to become more affordable. Even if these would-be city builders make boatloads of mistakes, getting anywhere close to the goals of Flannery Associates to house 400,000 people -- up to 5 percent of the Bay Area's current population -- would significantly help make the region more affordable and inclusive.
Building in the Bay Area will enable America to continue its history of allowing people to relocate to more productive places. In the early decades of the 19th century, farmers left the rocky soil of the East for better farmland in the Midwest. A century later, millions of people left agriculture behind in favor of even more fertile economic ground: cities. This huge transition was possible only because cities built vast quantities of housing. In the 1920s alone, New York City added 700,000 units. In recent decades American growth has moved to the Sun Belt, and people are going there not just for the nice weather. As Southern cities like Houston and Atlanta build enough housing to keep prices low, they are siphoning population away from the booming metros of yesteryear.
Today, California is one of the most productive places in the country, but it doesn't let people in because homeowners figured out how to block new construction, which pushes prices up and productivity down. Work by Chang-Tai Hsieh and Enrico Moretti found that limited access to America's most productive places "lowered aggregate U.S. growth by 36 percent from 1964 to 2009."
Even though opponents to development in coastal California often base their arguments on environmental grounds, building there is one of the best things that America could be doing to counter global warming. One of us, Professor Glaeser, and a University of Southern California environmental economist, Matthew Kahn, calculated that coastal California was easily the least carbon-intensive part of the country because of its mild climate.
The Flannery Associates effort to build in Solano County, about 60 miles northeast of San Francisco, faces major obstacles that have been compounded by the group's arrogance. The more than 50,000 acres of land the venture has obtained is not zoned for residential use. Securing governmental approval to get the project off the ground will require far more expertise in the workings of democracy than is typically found in Silicon Valley. As the company engages in fierce legal battles with local landowners, who accuse it of strong-arming them and turning family members against one another in the name of rapid land acquisition, it appears that the project is alienating itself from the very allies it would need to succeed.
City building has usually been a collaborative affair that requires openness and thrives on a hive of talent. Without assembling a wide and supportive community, Flannery Associates is on the way to suffering the same fate as Sidewalk Labs, an Alphabet company that failed to build a futuristic city in Toronto.
Moreover, a city built by Silicon Valley moguls will succeed only if it puts people before buildings. There are city-building entities, like the Woodlands, that have developed the social muscles to create community, but they don't emerge overnight.
But even if Flannery Associates ends up in failure, we shouldn't forget that private hands have built great cities. The Woodlands shows us that support from private capital can play a productive role in creating communities. Solano County is close enough to San Francisco that the area can meaningfully expand the housing stock in the region.
Giving it a try is better than the status quo. Let's not throw the baby out with the bath water.
Edward L. Glaeser is a professor of economics at Harvard and a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. Carlo Ratti is the director of the Senseable City Lab at M.I.T. and the curator of the Biennale Architettura 2025.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Landowners; Upward mobility; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Upward mobility

Location: Baltimore Maryland; Silicon Valley-California; California; United States--US; San Francisco California; Solano County California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/26/opinion/flannery-associates-billlionaires-woodlands.html

Title: Yes, Billionaires Can Build Cities:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 27, 2023

column: St Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2906085681

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yes-billionaires-can-build-cities/docview/2906085681/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Time s Company Dec 27, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Safe Workplace for Religion: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/safe-workplace-religion/docview/2900794773/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Workers are asking employers to respond to rising Islamophobia and antisemitism. But office discussions about religion are complicated.
When Nabeela Elsayed was speaking at a corporate conference several years ago and explained that she would miss the group dinner because she was fasting for Ramadan, she recalls, her manager responded: "Just don't fast." Ms. Elsayed, an executive coach who was previously chief operating officer for Walmart Canada, said she had heard many such slights when stepping away during the workday to pray.
For years, she told business leaders that their diversity, equity and inclusion programming should teach workers about anti-Muslim hate, antisemitism and other threats to religious groups, but rarely got meaningful responses. In recent weeks -- since the start of the Israel-Hamas war -- Ms. Elsayed has noticed a surge of interest from them on the issue.
Executives are facing mounting calls from their workers to talk about faith in diversity programs. They're scrambling to ensure the safety of Jewish and Muslim employees, while also trying to foster a sense of belonging across religious groups. As a result, they're confronting longstanding challenges in talking about religion as a part of workplace diversity -- at a time when corporate commitments to diversity programming more broadly seem on shaky ground.
"In the 16 years I've been here, I have not seen before the kind of outreach we've received from companies trying to respond to their employees' needs," said the Rev. Mark Fowler, the head of Tanenbaum, a nonprofit that focuses on interreligious understanding.
Across the corporate world, investment in diversity, equity and inclusion ballooned after the killing of George Floyd in 2020 and subsequent protests. Openings for D.E.I. positions increased 174 percent between June and August 2020, according to data from Glassdoor, the jobs listing site.
The growth was short-lived. Layoffs and attrition since 2020 have hit D.E.I. roles at higher rates than other roles, according to a study of more than 600 companies by Revelio Labs released this year. Chief diversity officers were the only C-suite positions that experienced hiring declines last year, according to a report from LinkedIn.
Even when enthusiasm for D.E.I. work was swelling, companies were skittish about engaging faith groups in their diversity programming. The principle that church and state should be separate -- as well as civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of religion -- has encouraged some business leaders to separate church from the office as well. Many have left workers to facilitate conversations among themselves through employee resource groups, typically informal communities that gather for holiday celebrations or brown bag lunches.
"The U.S. has always had issues dealing with faith in any setting, whether we're talking about education or workplaces," said Stephanie Creary, an assistant professor of management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. She noted that companies had even struggled with whether to label certain office areas "prayer rooms," "meditation rooms" or "wellness spaces," because they wondered: Should prayer be explicitly welcomed into the office?
Because executives tend to avoid addressing faith-related issues directly, they haven't developed expertise about what terms to use and what not to, or about the specific needs that faith groups have.
"When it comes to antisemitic and anti-Muslim language, we have less experience of what's OK and what's not OK to say," Ms. Creary said. But now that some business leaders are weighing in with statements on threats to religious groups, she hopes a revival in D.E.I. programming more broadly can follow.
"We are seeing many many Jewish leaders who perhaps weren't as engaged in race-related issues really wanting to understand how the issues affecting the Jewish community can become incorporated into D.E.I. practices," she said. "There's an opportunity there."
Take Ivan Kaufman, the chief executive of Arbor Realty Trust. Mr. Kaufman, who is Jewish, never used to consider it a priority to speak out about antisemitism in the workplace, he said, but in recent weeks his own worries about anti-Jewish hate have grown. He heard from friends who had taken down their mezuzot at home so as not to be openly identified as Jewish, or who wondered aloud whether they were safe going to synagogue.
"I can't tell you how many calls I get -- 'Are you going to go to shul?"' he said.
That angst has cemented Mr. Kaufman's belief that his company should be vocally condemning antisemitism, including by signing on to the Anti-Defamation League's "Workplace Pledge to Fight Antisemitism," which the Jewish advocacy group started in the summer and circulated widely in the wake of the Hamas attacks on Oct. 7.
"Antisemitism is something I really haven't spoken about that much because it's been in the shadows," Mr. Kaufman said. "Clearly now we speak out about it."
For many Muslim leaders, too, the wave of hate in recent weeks has prompted personal responses.
"As a person of Muslim faith, there's always experiences you go through -- a lot of us after Sept. 11 went through experiences where we explained to everybody that not all two billion Muslims are bad," said Armughan Ahmad, the chief executive of Appen, an artificial intelligence company with roughly 1,000 employees. "How do you explain that discrimination in the workplace?"
In recent weeks, though, conversations about faith groups -- particularly about the threat of antisemitism and Islamophobia -- have come up more and more for Mr. Ahmad and his D.E.I. team. Appen put out a statement about the Israel-Hamas war, reminded staff about mental health support programs and signed the "Pledge to Listen" from the Coalition of Innovation Leaders Against Racism, which Mr. Ahmad co-founded in 2020.
At Massachusetts General Hospital in recent weeks, several dozen Jewish and Israeli health care workers and staff members shared their emotional responses to the war and antisemitism in a series of listening sessions. Dr. Mark Poznansky, a physician, and Elyse Park, a psychologist, planned the sessions as part of a Jewish employee resource group formed this year. They said they had been worrying about the well-being of their own Jewish families and felt isolated from some colleagues and friends, who they felt had not reached out to check in.
"It starts with the silence," said Dr. Park, who directs the research program in health promotion and resiliency intervention at the hospital. "It starts with the not checking in, the lack of understanding and the connectivity about how this impacts us greatly."
Their sense of isolation made the two doctors wonder: Why hadn't their workplace's extensive D.E.I. programming focused on faith groups?
"There was really no place, and it needed to be created," Dr. Park said.
The Anti-Defamation League pledge has more than 200 signatories, newly including J. Crew, Creative Artists Agency, Google, Apollo Global Management and the PGA Tour. The pledge asks companies to address antisemitism in their D.E.I. programming, speak out against hate on social media, provide religious accommodations and support Jewish employees by creating affinity groups.
Diversity programming often focuses on groups that are underrepresented in the corporate world, said Adam Neufeld, the Anti-Defamation League's chief impact officer, and that hasn't been a problem recently for Jews in many industries.
"There's a general lack of understanding of antisemitism because it operates so differently from other kinds of bias," Mr. Neufeld said, adding that the ADL also saw a spike of interest in its workplace programming after Kanye West's antisemitic posts on X in October 2022.
The Council on American-Islamic Relations has fielded over 2,000 of reports of anti-Muslim hate, including in workplaces, since early October. The swell of Islamophobic incidents has reminded some, including Ms. Elsayed, of what Muslims experienced at work after the Sept. 11 attacks, a wave of hate that she felt business leaders largely ignored.
"What we're seeing demonstrates we haven't made as much progress as I thought," she said. "It's difficult to hold tension in workplaces, but we should have enough compassion to listen to people's experiences and say, 'How can I help?"'
Ms. Elsayed, though, feels that many business leaders have been quieter about anti-Muslim incidents than about anti-Jewish hate. This month, she asked 11 chief executives whether their organizations had spoken out about recent waves of hate and found that "in most cases they either haven't responded at all, or they responded specifically around antisemitism."
Goldman Sachs announced in October that it would expand its employee resource group focused on "religion and culture," which is open to people of diverse religious backgrounds. The group was previously open only to employees in Europe, the Middle East and Africa; now it will include employees in American offices because of new interest.
"We think that bias or hate against anyone is unacceptable, whether it's antisemitism, whether it's hate against people in the Black community, in the Muslim community, in the Asian community -- any form of hate and bias is unacceptable," David Solomon, the bank's chief executive, said in an interview with Fox Business. (Mr. Solomon has been outspoken about the Israel-Hamas war.)
Some business leaders are weighing whether to create specific employee groups for every religion or an umbrella organization focused on interreligious issues, Ms. Creary of the Wharton School said. Many are struggling to determine what sort of language might be offensive to one faith group even if it's affirming to another.
"There's concern about having dialogue facilitated by people who are skilled," Ms. Creary said. "Because so many of these issues go back millenniums."
And as pledges from executives proliferate -- whether it's people signing on to the ADL's letter, participating in the Council on American-Islamic Relations's webinar on "Work, H.R. and Palestine" or, like Mr. Solomon at Goldman Sachs, expanding existing resource groups -- some D.E.I. leaders worry: How long will it last?
They note lingering frustration over a lack of corporate accountability to racial justice commitments made after the killing of Mr. Floyd. "Right now we have Black employees saying companies have dropped the ball on making progress on all the commitments they made in 2020," Ms. Creary said.
"This might be that moment for Jewish and Muslim colleagues," she continued. "Organizations invest all these resources in rising to the occasion to create inclusive workplaces, but three years from now it might trickle out."
Photograph Since the start of the war in Gaza, employer interest in diversity programming that teaches workers about threats to religious groups has surged, said Nabeela Elsayed, an executive coach in Canada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN WILLMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Goldman Sachs announced in October that it would expand its employee resource group focused on "religion and culture," which is open to people of diverse religious backgrounds. "We think that bias or hate against anyone is unacceptable," said David Solomon, below right, the bank's chief executive. Armughan Ahmad, below left, the chief executive of Appen, an A.I. company, said of Muslims, "a lot of us after Sept. 11 went through experiences." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN TAGGART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BUSINESS WIRE; BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) (B6) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Antisemitism; Workplace diversity; Religion; Muslims; Employees; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Workplace diversity Employees Executives

Location: Israel

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940; Name: Anti-Defamation League; NAICS: 813311

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/09/business/workplace-dei-religion.html

Title: A Safe Workplace for Religion:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 13, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2900794773

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/safe-workplace-religion/docview/2900794773/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Britain Accuses Russia of a Steady Campaign of Computer Attacks: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Satariano, Adam; Specia, Megan; Thrush, Glenn

Publication info: Satariano, Adam; Specia, Megan; Thrush, Glenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/britain-accuses-russia-steady-campaign-computer/docview/2899232652/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The government said a group linked to Russia's intelligence service carried out sustained operations to undermine trust in Britain's political system.
Russia's intelligence service has carried out a yearslong cyberattack campaign against high-profile politicians, civil servants, journalists and others, according to the British government, as part of what it called "unsuccessful attempts to interfere in U.K. political processes."
The announcement, part of a joint action with allies including the United States, which announced related indictments and sanctions on Thursday, was intended to sound the alarm that Russia intends to sow chaos and doubt ahead of elections in the United States and Britain.
Britain's Foreign Office, in a statement released on Thursday, said a group "almost certainly" linked to the Russian intelligence service engaged in sustained cyberespionage operations, including attacks that targeted lawmakers from across the political spectrum using spear-phishing attacks, or malicious emails, beginning as early as 2015.
The group also "selectively leaked and amplified the release of information in line with Russian confrontation goals, including to undermine trust in politics in the U.K. and like-minded states," the Foreign Office said, drawing from an investigation from Britain's intelligence agency.
Some of that information, including hacked trade documents between Britain and the United States, was leaked ahead of Britain's general election in 2019.
Universities, journalists, the public sector, charities and other organizations were also targeted, according to the government, which warned that while Russia's attempts to undermine democracy have been so far unsuccessful, they are likely to continue.
Russia did not immediately respond to the accusations, but it has in the past denied any state-sponsored attacks against other countries or entities.
The British statement also linked a 2018 hack of the Institute for Statecraft, a British research organization focused on disinformation, and a 2021 hack of a founder of that organization, whose account was compromised. "In both instances documents were subsequently leaked," the statement said.
The group identified by the British authorities is often known as Star Blizzard, and has a history of conducting "hack and leak" campaigns, in which stolen information is then leaked publicly to influence public opinion in a targeted country, Microsoft, which has been tracking the group since 2017, said last year.
Before starting an attack, the group is known to conduct reconnaissance of the people it is targeting, including identifying contacts from their social networks or "sphere of influence," Microsoft said. Using names collected from that research, the group then creates fake LinkedIn profiles, email addresses and social media accounts to trick their targets into engaging in correspondence. At a certain point, they include an infected file in the communications to get access to the target's data.
The group's work did not appear to be directly related to Moscow's efforts to interfere with 2016 and 2020 U.S. elections, F.B.I. officials said on Thursday, but were part of President Vladimir V. Putin's broader efforts to undermine confidence in democratic institutions.
The hacks fit a pattern of Russian behavior stretching back more than a decade. Russia-aligned groups have been accused of infiltrating government agencies, multinational corporations and other organizations across the United States and Europe. Mixed with online disinformation campaigns, the incursions have tried to influence elections, conduct espionage and sow social discord among Western democracies.
Even as the United States and European allies have bolstered their cyberdefenses, the attacks disclosed on Thursday show how any protections can be undercut by a simple mistake by an individual who clicks or downloads malicious files.
David Cameron, Britain's recently appointed foreign secretary who previously served as the country's prime minister, said in a statement that the attempts by Russia "to interfere in U.K. politics are completely unacceptable and seek to threaten our democratic processes."
"Despite their repeated efforts, they have failed," he said. "In sanctioning those responsible and summoning the Russian ambassador today, we are exposing their malign attempts at influence and shining a light on yet another example of how Russia chooses to operate on the global stage."
In addition to summoning the Russian ambassador to Britain, the British government announced sanctions against two people linked to Star Blizzard. That group, the government said, was "almost certainly subordinate" to Center 18, a unit of the F.S.B., Russia's Intelligence Services, that it said directed the cyberespionage operations.
The two people named in the sanctions are Ruslan Aleksandrovich Peretyatko, who Britain said is a Russian F.S.B. intelligence officer and a member of Star Blizzard; and Andrey Stanislavovich Korinets, who is also a member of Star Blizzard.
In coordination with British authorities, U.S. prosecutors unsealed indictments against the two men on Thursday, accusing Moscow of engaging in a wide-ranging spearfishing campaign to hack into the accounts of American government officials from 2016 to 2022.
The U.S. attorney in San Francisco, Ismail J. Ramsey, charged both men with conspiracy to commit computer and wire fraud, which carries a maximum penalty of 25 years in prison if they are ever caught, tried or convicted. Officials conceded that was unlikely.
He accused the defendants of "attempting to create chaos in democratic processes," in a statement.
The men were able to "take valuable intelligence from their victims' accounts at will, including intelligence related to United States defense, foreign affairs, and security policies, as well as nuclear energy related technology, research, and development," according to the indictment.
Hacking victims included a former U.S. ambassador; ex-intelligence officials; current and former defense officials, including a retired Air Force general; and current defense contractors, prosecutors said.
It is not clear how damaging the breach was. But prosecutors said the two men succeeded in hacking into the account of an employee of the Energy Department with a goal of stealing information on nuclear energy technology, according to senior federal law enforcement officials.
In addition to the Justice Department's indictment, the State and Treasury departments have also sanctioned the two men, and the government has also offered a $ 10 million reward for their capture or new information about co-conspirators.
Britain's National Cyber Security Center, part of its intelligence service, said that it had issued a new cybersecurity advisory, along with Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States, and published updated guidance for people at higher risk of cyberthreats.
"Russia's use of cyberoperations to further its attempts at political interference is wholly unacceptable, and we are resolute in calling out this pattern of activity with our partners," said Paul Chichester, the center's director of operations, adding that "individuals and organizations which play an important role in our democracy must bolster their security." Officials said a group linked to Russia's intelligence service had carried out operations to undermine trust in Britain's political system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM BUSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A8.

Subject: Nuclear energy; Defense contracts; Politics; Social networks; Sanctions; False information; Democracy; Political systems; Espionage; Intelligence services; Cybercrime

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Sanctions

Location: Russia; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/07/world/europe/uk-russia-cyberattacks.html

Title: Britain Accuses Russia of a Steady Campaign of Computer Attacks:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 8, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899232652

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/britain-accuses-russia-steady-campaign-computer/docview/2899232652/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Co pyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Wild Wild West of Content Creators: [SpecialSections]

Author: Muhlke, Christine

Publication info: Muhlke, Christine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wild-west-content-creators/docview/2898885565/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A task force at the DealBook Summit discussed where the power lies in the exploding world of the creator economy -- and who is likely to wield it in the future.
This article is part of our special section on the DealBook Summit that included business and policy leaders from around the world.
Takeaways
Authenticity is the coin of the realm, essential for the success of creators and brands alike, but turning it into a business undermines that identity; unless that tension can be resolved, this whole structure will fail.
Creators can't rely on brands and platforms, so they must evolve and diversify into what are effectively independent mini-studios, making sure that they bring their audiences with them by owning their data and contact lists.
Brands need to trust creators' ability to speak to and understand their audience and be very clear (and realistic) about their key performance indicators (known as KPI's). This means thinking about creators in two ways: as macroinfluencers with lots of followers whose work can boost a brand's name recognition and profile; and microinfluencers who can sell products to their specific communities.
The creator economy is powered by millions of individuals who build and monetize their online celebrity by making deals with big brands and selling products to their followers. It might still be seen as superficial, but the sector is projected to reach around $ 480 billion by 2027, according to Goldman Sachs Research.
But between the creators, the brands that employ them, the consumers that follow them and the platforms that enable it all, who has the real power? That is what a 10-person task force debated during last week's DealBook Summit in New York.
The gathered experts ranged from creators with millions of followers and brand executives to the founder of a financial start-up aimed at helping creators perform more like the businesses they are. They agreed only that it is a wild wild West -- one in which there's no actual sheriff, just new platforms and brands with which to partner, all of them jockeying for territory and none of which are loyal to the creators who benefit them (and benefit from them).
"I feel like the audience has the power, the creators have the medium and the brands have the means," said Vivian Tu, the financial educator behind the multimillion-follower social media accounts @your.richbff, the podcast "Networth and Chill with Your Rich BFF," and the author of the upcoming book "Rich AF: The Winning Money Mindset That Will Change Your Life."
Dara Treseder, the chief marketing officer of the software developer Autodesk, said, "If you miss out on the audience and take your eye off of it, whether you're a brand or a creator, you miss the mark." Ms. Treseder considers it a virtuous cycle versus a vicious one, "because by nourishing our audiences, we actually end up growing the economy."
Talita von Furstenberg, the co-chairwoman of the fashion company Diane von Furstenberg, pointed out that the creator economy has "taken over the entire marketing industry, and that runs all of the purchasing power." Today's consumers have unprecedented power, she said, "because they can actually hold creators and brands accountable for the first time in history." In a world in which thousands of creators and brands are competing for consumers' attention and money, people can now choose based on their values.
Stephen Dubner, a journalist and a former New York Times Magazine editor who is the host of "Freakonomics Radio," said he believed that the platforms reign today. "If you just look at the history of creation, the creators never win," he said. "When the platform has the power, they have close to absolute power."
What creators and brands alike are after is authenticity: Influencers build an audience because they seem relatable. Brands know that the best way to reach consumers is to seem real -- or at least align themselves with someone who is.
"We're chasing authenticity," said Richie Shazam, an artist, model and photographer whose work, including the book "Shazam," explores the intersection between art, fashion, gender and identity. "Like, now there's a dollar sign for authenticity and realness, and it's like, well, what's really real? Because I don't think it's really real when these things are commodifiable."
The audience can tell when creators are following a brand's script, yet brands don't seem to have gotten the memo. Marc D'Amelio, the former fashion executive whose teenage daughters Charli and Dixie became TikTok juggernauts thanks to Charli's dance posts, recalled meetings with advertising executives who would say, "Oh, yeah. You're the TikTok dance girl. Why don't you just hold my product and do a TikTok dance?"
"So we did the reverse," he said. Charli grew up with Dunkin' Donuts and would have a cup in every video, so, he recalled, "we went to Dunkin' Donuts and said, 'Look, we're doing all this stuff.' It already started out as authentic."
Eva Serrano, the global brand president of Calvin Klein, said that learning how to work collaboratively is the steepest part of the learning curve for brands. "It really takes a lot of effort to be translated into what you really want to say," she said to the creators present.
In the creator economy, success threatens the very authenticity that made a creator successful. "You start in your living room and you're just like everybody else and you're doing your videos: 'Oh my God, so relatable,"' said Christina Najjar, a.k.a. @tinx, who, in addition to having 1.5 million TikTok followers, hosts the podcast "It's Me, Tinx" and wrote the book "The Shift." "All of a sudden you start getting P.R.: 'OK, well, I'm happy for her.' ... All of a sudden she's got an agent and she's getting makeup every day and this and that and then, all of a sudden you're no longer relatable," she concluded. "And people, they want that authenticity."
The arc is getting shorter and faster, said Ms. Najjar, who noted that her numbers and engagement drop when she posts too many brand deals. "Are you able to survive that jump from when you become relatable to unrelatable? And then, second, once you get there, what are you going to do with it? It is a job: There's a lot of strategy involved in it."
The assembled creators have used their 15 minutes of fame to diversify. (All three have written books.) Mr. D'Amelio likened the creation of D'Amelio Brands, which sells footwear and snacks at stores such as Walmart, to Jay-Z's creation of Roc-A-Fella Records, in which "the creator became the business."
"From our perspective, in order for the creator economy to thrive, you've got to help more creators understand that they are actually businesses," said Sima Gandhi, who co-founded the financial services company Creative Juice, which teaches creators how to do such things as invoice and deduct expenses on their taxes -- and declare income on them.
The relative lack of contractual guardrails and government regulation around this supercharged sector surprises all involved. The Federal Trade Commission requires influencers to disclose sponsored content, and the I.R.S. keeps an eye on influencers who might be profiting from it. "SAG-AFTRA [the Screen Actors Guild] is coming for the creators," added Myisha Moore, the vice president of influencer marketing at the global public relations firm Edelman.
"I think it's really challenging to say we should put guardrails around creators, especially money," said Ms. Tu, "because I personally have this attitude that if I know I only have a certain amount of shelf life, I'm going to try to print as much cash as I humanly can in the next 10 years."
Like the influencers themselves, platforms can only stay so hot for so long. "It feels like every video that I see on my TikTok feed is eligible for commission or it's an ad," Ms. Najjar said. Where will the wild wild West graze next? The panelists had some surprising favorites.
"I love Snapchat," Ms. Najjar said. "They treat their creators really well." And Ms. Treseder said LinkedIn is having a lot of resurgence.
This lack of stability and trust means that making oneself into a diversified business is essential. Ms. Tu explained: "If you are a traditional influencer and you don't branch out, you are an N.F.L. player: You take one bad hit to the knee, you're done."
Moderator: Vanessa Friedman, fashion director and chief fashion critic, The New York Times
Participants: Marc D'Amelio, chief executive and co-founder, D'Amelio Brands; Stephen Dubner, author, journalist and host of "Freakonomics Radio"; Sima Gandhi, chief executive and co-founder, Creative Juice; Myisha Moore, vice president of influencer marketing, Edelman; Christina Najjar, digital creator; Eva Serrano, global brand president, Calvin Klein; Richie Shazam, artist, model, photographer; Dara Treseder, chief marketing officer, Autodesk; Vivan Tu, chief executive and founder, Your Rich BFF Media; Talita von Furstenberg, co-chairwoman, Diane von Furstenberg
Photograph The task force on the creator economy discussed the tension that exists between creators, brands, consumers and platforms and how that balances against authenticity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page F5.

Subject: Authenticity; Presidents; Task forces; Audiences; Books; Influencer marketing

Business indexing term: Subject: Influencer marketing

Location: New York; United States--US

People: von Furstenberg, Talita

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Dunkin Donuts Inc; NAICS: 533110, 722515; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Autodesk Inc; NAICS: 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/06/business/dealbook/content-creator-economy.html

Title: The Wild Wild West of Content Creators:   [SpecialSections ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: F.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 7, 2023

Section: F

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2898885565

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wild-west-content-creators/docview/2898885565/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Tech Dreams Go Up in Smoke: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-tech-dreams-go-up-smoke/docview/2898871325/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After staving off collapse by cutting costs, many young tech companies are out of options, fueling a cash bonfire.
WeWork raised more than $ 11 billion in funding as a private company. Olive AI, a health care start-up, gathered $ 852 million. Convoy, a freight start-up, raised $ 900 million. And Veev, a home construction start-up, amassed $ 647 million.
In the last six weeks, they all filed for bankruptcy or shut down. They are the most recent failures in a tech start-up collapse that investors say is only beginning.
After staving off mass failure by cutting costs over the past two years, many once-promising tech companies are now on the verge of running out of time and money. They face a harsh reality: Investors are no longer interested in promises. Rather, venture capital firms are deciding which young companies are worth saving and urging others to shut down or sell.
It has fueled an astonishing cash bonfire. In August, Hopin, a start-up that raised more than $ 1.6 billion and was once valued at $ 7.6 billion, sold its main business for just $ 15 million. Last month, Zeus Living, a real estate start-up that raised $ 150 million, said it was shutting down. Plastiq, a financial technology start-up that raised $ 226 million, went bankrupt in May. In September, Bird, a scooter company that raised $ 776 million, was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange because of its low stock price. Its $ 7 million market capitalization is less than the value of the $ 22 million Miami mansion that its founder, Travis VanderZanden, bought in 2021.
"As an industry we should all be braced to hear about a lot more failures," said Jenny Lefcourt, an investor at Freestyle Capital. "The more money people got before the party ended, the longer the hangover."
Getting a full picture of the losses is difficult since private tech companies are not required to disclose when they go out of business or sell. The industry's gloom has also been masked by a boom in companies focused on artificial intelligence, which has attracted hype and funding over the last year.
But approximately 3,200 private venture-backed U.S. companies have gone out of business this year, according to data compiled for The New York Times by PitchBook, which tracks start-ups. Those companies had raised $ 27.2 billion in venture funding. PitchBook said the data was not comprehensive and probably undercounts the total because many companies go out of business quietly. It also excluded many of the largest failures that went public, such as WeWork, or that found buyers, like Hopin.
Carta, a company that provides financial services for many Silicon Valley start-ups, said 87 of the start-ups on its platform that raised at least $ 10 million had shut down this year as of October, twice the number for all of 2022.
This year has been "the most difficult year for start-ups in at least a decade," Peter Walker, Carta's head of insights, wrote on LinkedIn.
Venture investors say that failure is normal and that for every company that goes out of business, there is an outsize success like Facebook or Google. But as many companies that have languished for years now show signs of collapse, investors expect the losses to be more drastic because of how much cash was invested over the last decade.
From 2012 to 2022, investment in private U.S. start-ups ballooned eightfold to $ 344 billion. The flood of money was driven by low interest rates and successes in social media and mobile apps, propelling venture capital from a cottage financial industry that operated largely on one road in a Silicon Valley town to a formidable global asset class akin to hedge funds or private equity.
During that period, venture capital investing became trendy -- even 7-Eleven and "Sesame Street" launched venture funds -- and the number of private "unicorn" companies worth $ 1 billion or more exploded from a few dozen to more than 1,000.
But the advertising profits gushing from the likes of Facebook and Google proved elusive for the next wave of start-ups, which have tried untested business models like gig work, the metaverse, micromobility and cryptocurrencies.
Now some companies are choosing to shut down before they run out of cash, returning what remains to investors. Others are stuck in "zombie" mode -- surviving but unable to grow. They can muddle along like that for years, investors said, but will most likely struggle to raise more money.
Convoy, the freight start-up that investors valued at $ 3.8 billion, spent the last 18 months cutting costs, laying off staff and otherwise adapting to the difficult market. It wasn't enough.
As the company's money ran low this year, it lined up three potential buyers, all of whom backed out. Coming so close, said Dan Lewis, Convoy's co-founder and chief executive, "was one of the hardest parts." The company ceased operations in October. In a memo to employees, Mr. Lewis called the situation "the perfect storm."
Such port-mortem assessments, where founders announce their company is closing and reflect on lessons learned, have become common.
One entrepreneur, Ishita Arora, wrote this week that she had to "confront reality" that Dayslice, her scheduling software start-up, was not attracting enough customers to satisfy investors. She returned some of the cash she had raised. Gabor Cselle, a founder of Pebble, a social media start-up, wrote last month that despite feeling that he had let the community down, trying and failing was worth it. Pebble is returning to investors a small portion of the money it had raised, Mr. Cselle said. "It felt like the right thing to do."
Amanda Peyton was surprised by the reaction to her blog post in October about the "dread and loneliness" of shutting down her payments start-up, Braid. More than 100,000 people read it, and she was flooded with messages of encouragement and gratitude from fellow entrepreneurs.
Ms. Peyton said she had once felt that the opportunity and potential for growth in software was infinite. "It's become clear that that's not true," she said. "The market has a ceiling."
Venture capital investors have taken to gently urging some founders to consider walking away from doomed companies, rather than waste years grinding away.
"It might be better to accept reality and throw in the towel," Elad Gil, a venture capital investor, wrote in a blog post this year. He did not respond to a request for comment.
Ms. Lefcourt of Freestyle Ventures said that so far, two of her firm's start-ups had done exactly that, returning 50 cents on the dollar to investors. "We're trying to point out to founders, 'Hey, you don't want to be caught in no man's land,"' she said.
One area that is thriving? Companies in the business of failure.
SimpleClosure, a start-up that helps other start-ups wind down their operations, has barely been able to keep up with demand since it opened in September, said Dori Yona, the founder. Its offerings include helping prepare legal paperwork and settling obligations to investors, vendors, customers and employees.
It was sad to see so many start-ups shutting down, Mr. Yona said, but it felt special to help founders find closure -- both literally and figuratively -- in a difficult time. And, he added, it is all part of Silicon Valley's circle of life.
"A lot of them are already working on their next companies," he said.
Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph In September, Bird, a scooter company and app that raised $ 776 million, was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange because of its low stock price. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TARA PIXLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Software; Failure; Stock market delistings; Investments; Startups; Funding; Social networks; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock market delistings Startups Social networks Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: WeWork; NAICS: 531312; Name: New York Stock Exchange--NYSE; NAICS: 523210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/07/technology/tech-startups-collapse.html

Title: How Tech Dreams Go Up in Smoke:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 7, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2898871325

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-tech-dreams-go-up-smoke/docview/2898871325/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Democrat Heeds Call To Support Haley's Bid: [National Desk]

Author: Goldmacher, Shane

Publication info: Goldmacher, Shane. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/democrat-heeds-call-support-haleys-bid/docview/2898268078/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn, has funded an array of anti-Trump candidates and causes.
When Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, urged Democratic donors last week to rally behind Nikki Haley to provide Republican voters an alternative to former President Donald J. Trump, it seemed a far-fetched plea.
But at least one of the Democratic Party's biggest financiers has already done exactly that.
Reid Hoffman, the billionaire co-founder of LinkedIn and a major Democratic donor, recently gave $ 250,000 to a super PAC supporting Ms. Haley, the former South Carolina governor who has gained momentum in recent weeks in the 2024 Republican primary race. The donation, which has not been previously reported, was confirmed by Dmitri Mehlhorn, a political adviser to Mr. Hoffman.
The pro-Haley super PAC, SFA Fund Inc., was asked specifically by Mr. Hoffman's political team if it would take money from Mr. Hoffman, given that he is a Democrat who actively supports President Biden, Mr. Mehlhorn said. The super PAC, he added, said yes.
The pro-Haley super PAC did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
SFA Fund Inc. has been one of the biggest players in the 2024 Republican primary race, spending more than $ 33 million on advertising and other expenses. Its biggest contributors in the first half of the year were Jan Koum, a co-founder of WhatsApp, who gave $ 5 million, and the venture capitalist Tim Draper, who gave $ 1.25 million. Mr. Koum has since given an additional $ 5 million, which Puck News first reported.
Mr. Hoffman has financially backed an array of anti-Trump candidates and causes. He helped fund the lawsuit by E. Jean Carroll, the writer who sued Mr. Trump for rape and defamation. In May, a Manhattan jury found Mr. Trump liable for sexually abusing and defaming her.
The extra money will help Ms. Haley's super PAC buy more television ads as she battles to separate herself from Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and close the gap in polling with Mr. Trump. But such cross-party giving is rare and could also risk a backlash. Even before Mr. Hoffman's donation was made public, Mr. Trump had seized on coverage of Mr. Dimon's comments urging Democrats to back Ms. Haley and used it in fund-raising messages.
"While globalist special interest donors from both parties forge an unholy alliance to beat us, I'm calling on our grass roots donors like YOU to fight back," Mr. Trump wrote in a fund-raising email on Monday.
Ms. Haley herself has explicitly made appeals for Democratic backing.
"Anybody that wants to come support the cause, whether they're Republican, independent or Democrat, we're going to take them," she said on Fox News last week. "And that's the way the Republican Party should look at it is, this is a story about addition, not about getting people and pushing people away."
After The New York Times wrote about the donation, the DeSantis campaign criticized Ms. Haley for her unlikely supporter. "It makes perfect sense that liberal Democrat billionaires would support Nikki Haley's bid for the White House," Bryan Griffin, a DeSantis spokesman, said in a statement, "because she is a liberal."
A former Trump adviser, Stephen K. Bannon, also attacked Ms. Haley after the donation was reported, calling her a "phony" on his streaming program and Mr. Hoffman a "Trump hater of just epic proportions."
Mr. Hoffman has been involved in the Republican primary in other ways, too. Mr. Mehlhorn was in conversations this year on behalf of Mr. Hoffman with a super PAC backing former Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, though Mr. Hoffman did not give directly to that group.
But a nonprofit group with close financial ties to Mr. Hoffman, Defending Democracy Together, did publicly report making a $ 500,000 donation in June to the pro-Christie super PAC, Tell It Like It Is PAC. Mr. Mehlhorn said that Mr. Hoffman had given even more to Defending Democracy Together since then.
Colin Reed, a spokesman for the Christie super PAC, said the group would have happily taken Mr. Hoffman's money directly. "We're grateful of the support of anyone who wants to support the governor's campaign," Mr. Reed said.
Mr. Hoffman, who co-hosted a fund-raiser for Mr. Biden in California this year, has been uniquely motivated as a donor in opposition to Mr. Trump. He donated in 2022 to Liz Cheney, who had emerged as one of the Republican Party's most vocal anti-Trump leaders.
In the 2022 election cycle, Mr. Hoffman also gave $ 3.35 million to the Republican Accountability Project, which opposes Mr. Trump's takeover of the party.
In a post on LinkedIn eight months ago, Mr. Hoffman said he had helped pay for Ms. Carroll's case as a counterweight to "Donald Trump's scorched-earth legal methods."
"Supporting women fighting for progress and justice in philanthropy, politics, and business has been a longstanding priority of mine, as is supporting America against the threat of Trump," he wrote.
Photograph Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn, has funded anti-Trump candidates. This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Political campaigns; Political action committees--PAC; Donations; Democracy; Litigation; Political advertising; Political parties

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

People: Haley, Nikki

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/05/us/politics/nikki-haley-reid-hoffman-donation.html

Title: Democrat Heeds Call To Support Haley's Bid:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2898268078

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/democrat-heeds-call-support-haleys-bid/docview/2898268078/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Money, Ego and Fear Lit A.I.'s Fuse: [Series]

Author: Metz, Cade; Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Metz, Cade; Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-money-ego-fear-lit-i-s-fuse/docview/2896672295/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk celebrated his 44th birthday in July 2015 at a three-day party thrown by his wife at a California wine country resort dotted with cabins. It was family and friends only, with children racing around the upscale property in Napa Valley.
This was years before Twitter became X and Tesla had a profitable year. Mr. Musk and his wife, Talulah Riley -- an actress who played a beautiful but dangerous robot on HBO's science fiction series "Westworld" -- were a year from throwing in the towel on their second marriage. Larry Page, a party guest, was still the chief executive of Google. And artificial intelligence had pierced the public consciousness only a few years before, when it was used to identify cats on YouTube -- with 16 percent accuracy.
A.I. was the big topic of conversation when Mr. Musk and Mr. Page sat down near a firepit beside a swimming pool after dinner the first night. The two billionaires had been friends for more than a decade, and Mr. Musk sometimes joked that he occasionally crashed on Mr. Page's sofa after a night playing video games.
But the tone that clear night soon turned contentious as the two debated whether artificial intelligence would ultimately elevate humanity or destroy it.
As the discussion stretched into the chilly hours, it grew intense, and some of the more than 30 partyers gathered closer to listen. Mr. Page, hampered for more than a decade by an unusual ailment in his vocal cords, described his vision of a digital utopia in a whisper. Humans would eventually merge with artificially intelligent machines, he said. One day there would be many kinds of intelligence competing for resources, and the best would win.
If that happens, Mr. Musk said, we're doomed. The machines will destroy humanity.
With a rasp of frustration, Mr. Page insisted his utopia should be pursued. Finally he called Mr. Musk a "specieist," a person who favors humans over the digital life-forms of the future.
That insult, Mr. Musk said later, was "the last straw."
Many in the crowd seemed gobsmacked, if amused, as they dispersed for the night, and considered it just another one of those esoteric debates that often break out at Silicon Valley parties.
But eight years later, the argument between the two men seems prescient. The question of whether artificial intelligence will elevate the world or destroy it -- or at least inflict grave damage -- has framed an ongoing debate among Silicon Valley founders, chatbot users, academics, legislators and regulators about whether the technology should be controlled or set free.
That debate has pitted some of the world's richest men against one another: Mr. Musk, Mr. Page, Mark Zuckerberg of Meta, the tech investor Peter Thiel, Satya Nadella of Microsoft and Sam Altman of OpenAI. All have fought for a piece of the business -- which one day could be worth trillions of dollars -- and the power to shape it.
At the heart of this competition is a brain-stretching paradox. The people who say they are most worried about A.I. are among the most determined to create it and enjoy its riches. They have justified their ambition with their strong belief that they alone can keep A.I. from endangering Earth.
Mr. Musk and Mr. Page stopped speaking soon after the party that summer. A few weeks later, Mr. Musk dined with Mr. Altman, who was then running a tech incubator, and several researchers in a private room at the Rosewood hotel in Menlo Park, Calif., a favored deal-making spot close to the venture capital offices of Sand Hill Road.
That dinner led to the creation of a start-up called OpenAI later in the year. Backed by hundreds of millions of dollars from Mr. Musk and other funders, the lab promised to protect the world from Mr. Page's vision.
Thanks to its ChatGPT chatbot, OpenAI has fundamentally changed the technology industry and has introduced the world to the risks and potential of artificial intelligence. OpenAI is valued at more than $ 80 billion, according to two people familiar with the company's latest funding round, though Mr. Musk and Mr. Altman's partnership didn't make it. The two have since stopped speaking.
"There is disagreement, mistrust, egos," Mr. Altman said. "The closer people are to being pointed in the same direction, the more contentious the disagreements are. You see this in sects and religious orders. There are bitter fights between the closest people."
Last month, that infighting came to OpenAI's boardroom. Rebel board members tried to force out Mr. Altman because, they believed, they could no longer trust him to build A.I. that would benefit humanity. Over five chaotic days OpenAI looked as if it were going to fall apart, until the board -- pressured by giant investors and employees who threatened to follow Mr. Altman out the door -- backed down.
The drama inside OpenAI gave the world its first glimpse of the bitter feuds among those who will determine the future of A.I.
But years before OpenAI's near meltdown, there was a little-publicized but ferocious competition in Silicon Valley for control of the technology that is now quickly reshaping the world, from how children are taught to how wars are fought. The New York Times spoke with more than 80 executives, scientists and entrepreneurs, including two people who attended Mr. Musk's birthday party in 2015, to tell that story of ambition, fear and money.
The Birth of DeepMind
Five years before the Napa Valley party and two before the cat breakthrough on YouTube, Demis Hassabis, a 34-year-old neuroscientist, walked into a cocktail party at Peter Thiel's San Francisco townhouse and realized he'd hit pay dirt. There in Mr. Thiel's living room, overlooking the city's Palace of Fine Arts and a swan pond, was a chess board. Dr. Hassabis had once been the second-best player in the world in the under-14 category.
"I was preparing for that meeting for a year," Dr. Hassabis said. "I thought that would be my unique hook in: I knew that he loved chess."
In 2010, Dr. Hassabis and two colleagues, who all lived in Britain, were looking for money to start building "artificial general intelligence," or A.G.I., a machine that could do anything the brain could do. At the time, few people were interested in A.I. After a half century of research, the artificial intelligence field had failed to deliver anything remotely close to the human brain.
Still, some scientists and thinkers had become fixated on the downsides of A.I. Many, like the three young men from Britain, had a connection to Eliezer Yudkowsky, an internet philosopher and self-taught A.I. researcher. Mr. Yudkowsky was a leader in a community of people who called themselves Rationalists or, in later years, effective altruists.
They believed that A.I. could find a cure for cancer or solve climate change, but they worried that A.I. bots might do things their creators had not intended. If the machines became more intelligent than humans, the Rationalists argued, the machines could turn on their creators.
Mr. Thiel had become enormously wealthy through an early investment in Facebook and through his work with Mr. Musk in the early days of PayPal. He had developed a fascination with the singularity, a trope of science fiction that describes the moment when intelligent technology can no longer be controlled by humanity.
With funding from Mr. Thiel, Mr. Yudkowsky had expanded his A.I. lab and created an annual conference on the singularity. Years before, one of Dr. Hassabis's two colleagues had met Mr. Yudkowsky, and he snagged them speaking spots at the conference, ensuring they'd be invited to Mr. Thiel's party.
Mr. Yudkowsky introduced Dr. Hassabis to Mr. Thiel. Dr. Hassabis assumed that lots of people at the party would be trying to squeeze their host for money. His strategy was to arrange another meeting. There was a deep tension between the bishop and the knight, he told Mr. Thiel. The two pieces carried the same value, but the best players understood that their strengths were vastly different.
It worked. Charmed, Mr. Thiel invited the group back the next day, where they gathered in the kitchen. Their host had just finished his morning workout and was still sweating in a shiny tracksuit. A butler handed him a Diet Coke. The three made their pitch, and soon Mr. Thiel and his venture capital firm agreed to put 1.4 million British pounds (roughly $ 2.25 million) into their start-up. He was their first major investor.
They named their company DeepMind, a nod to "deep learning," a way for A.I. systems to learn skills by analyzing large amounts of data; to neuroscience; and to the Deep Thought supercomputer from the sci-fi novel "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy." By the fall of 2010, they were building their dream machine. They wholeheartedly believed that because they understood the risks, they were uniquely positioned to protect the world.
"I don't see this as a contradictory position," said Mustafa Suleyman, one of the three DeepMind founders. "There are huge benefits to come from these technologies. The goal is not to eliminate them or pause their development. The goal is to mitigate the downsides."
Having won over Mr. Thiel, Dr. Hassabis worked his way into Mr. Musk's orbit. About two years later, they met at a conference organized by Mr. Thiel's investment fund, which had also put money into Mr. Musk's company SpaceX. Dr. Hassabis secured a tour of SpaceX headquarters. Afterward, with rocket hulls hanging from the ceiling, the two men lunched in the cafeteria and talked.
Mr. Musk explained that his plan was to colonize Mars to escape overpopulation and other dangers on Earth. Dr. Hassabis replied that the plan would work -- so long as superintelligent machines didn't follow and destroy humanity on Mars, too.
Mr. Musk was speechless. He hadn't thought about that particular danger. Mr. Musk soon invested in DeepMind alongside Mr. Thiel so he could be closer to the creation of this technology.
Flush with cash, DeepMind hired researchers who specialized in neural networks, complex algorithms created in the image of the human brain. A neural network is essentially a giant mathematical system that spends days, weeks or even months identifying patterns in large amounts of digital data. First developed in the 1950s, these systems could learn to handle tasks on their own. After analyzing names and addresses scribbled on hundreds of envelopes, for instance, they could read handwritten text.
DeepMind took the concept further. It built a system that could learn to play classic Atari games like Space Invaders, Pong and Breakout to illustrate what was possible.
This got the attention of another Silicon Valley powerhouse, Google, and specifically Larry Page. He saw a demonstration of Deep Mind's machine playing Atari games. He wanted in.
The Talent Auction
In the fall of 2012, Geoffrey Hinton, a 64-year-old professor at the University of Toronto, and two graduate students published a research paper that showed the world what A.I. could do. They trained a neural network to recognize common objects like flowers, dogs and cars.
Scientists were surprised by the accuracy of the technology built by Dr. Hinton and his students. One who took particular notice was Yu Kai, an A.I. researcher who had met Dr. Hinton at a research conference and had recently started working for Baidu, the giant Chinese internet company. Baidu offered Dr. Hinton and his students $ 12 million to join the company in Beijing, according to three people familiar with the offer.
Dr. Hinton turned Baidu down, but the money got his attention.
The Cambridge-educated British expatriate had spent most of his career in academia, except for occasional stints at Microsoft and Google, and was not especially driven by money. But he had a neurodivergent child, and the money would mean financial security.
"We did not know how much we were worth," Dr. Hinton said. He consulted lawyers and experts on acquisitions and came up with a plan: "We would organize an auction, and we would sell ourselves." The auction would take place during an annual A.I. conference at the Harrah's hotel and casino on Lake Tahoe.
Big Tech took notice. Google, Microsoft, Baidu and other companies were beginning to believe that neural networks were a path to machines that could not only see, but hear, write, talk and -- eventually -- think.
Mr. Page had seen similar technology at Google Brain, his company's A.I. lab, and he thought Dr. Hinton's research could elevate his scientists' work. He gave Alan Eustace, Google's senior vice president of engineering, what amounted to a blank check to hire any A.I. expertise he needed.
Mr. Eustace and Jeff Dean, who led the Brain lab, flew to Lake Tahoe and took Dr. Hinton and his students out to dinner at a steakhouse inside the hotel the night before the auction. The smell of old cigarettes was overpowering, Dr. Dean recalled. They made the case for coming to work at Google.
The next day, Dr. Hinton ran the auction from his hotel room. Because of an old back injury, he rarely sat down. He turned a trash can upside down on a table, put his laptop on top and watched the bids roll in over the next two days.
Google made an offer. So did Microsoft. DeepMind quickly bowed out as the price went up. The industry giants pushed the bids to $ 20 million and then $ 25 million, according to documents detailing the auction. As the price passed $ 30 million, Microsoft quit, but it rejoined the bidding at $ 37 million.
"We felt like we were in a movie," Dr. Hinton said.
Then Microsoft dropped out a second time. Only Baidu and Google were left, and they pushed the bidding to $ 42 million, $ 43 million. Finally, at $ 44 million, Dr. Hinton and his students stopped the auction. The bids were still climbing, but they wanted to work for Google. And the money was staggering.
It was an unmistakable sign that deep-pocketed companies were determined to buy the most talented A.I. researchers -- which was not lost on Dr. Hassabis at DeepMind. He had always told his employees that DeepMind would remain an independent company. That was, he believed, the best way to ensure its technology didn't turn into something dangerous.
But as Big Tech entered the talent race, he decided he had no choice: It was time to sell.
By the end of 2012, Google and Facebook were angling to acquire the London lab, according to three people familiar with the matter. Dr. Hassabis and his co-founders insisted on two conditions: No DeepMind technology could be used for military purposes, and its A.G.I. technology must be overseen by an independent board of technologists and ethicists.
Google offered $ 650 million. Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook offered a bigger payout to DeepMind's founders, but would not agree to the conditions. DeepMind sold to Google.
Mr. Zuckerberg was determined to build an A.I. lab of his own. He hired Yann LeCun, a French computer scientist who had also done pioneering A.I. research, to run it. A year after Dr. Hinton's auction, Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. LeCun flew to Lake Tahoe for the same A.I. conference. While padding around a suite at the Harrah's casino in his socks, Mr. Zuckerberg personally interviewed top researchers, who were soon offered millions of dollars in salary and stock.
A.I. was once laughed off. Now the richest men in Silicon Valley were shelling out billions to keep from being left behind.
The Lost Ethics Board
When Mr. Musk invested in DeepMind, he broke his own informal rule -- that he would not invest in any company he didn't run himself. The downsides of his decision were already apparent when, only a month or so after his birthday spat with Mr. Page, he again found himself face to face with his former friend and fellow billionaire.
The occasion was the first meeting of DeepMind's ethics board, on Aug. 14, 2015. The board had been set up at the insistence of the start-up's founders to ensure that their technology did no harm after the sale. The members convened in a conference room just outside Mr. Musk's office at SpaceX, with a window looking out onto his rocket factory, according to three people familiar with the meeting.
But that's where Mr. Musk's control ended. When Google bought DeepMind, it bought the whole thing. Mr. Musk was out. Financially he had come out ahead, but he was unhappy.
Three Google executives now firmly in control of DeepMind were there: Mr. Page; Sergey Brin, a Google co-founder and Tesla investor; and Eric Schmidt, Google's chairman. Among the other attendees were Reid Hoffman, another PayPal founder, and Toby Ord, an Australian philosopher studying "existential risk."
The DeepMind founders reported that they were pushing ahead with their work, but that they were aware the technology carried serious risks.
Mr. Suleyman, the DeepMind co-founder, gave a presentation called "The Pitchforkers Are Coming." A.I. could lead to an explosion in disinformation, he told the board. He fretted that as the technology replaced countless jobs in the coming years, the public would accuse Google of stealing their livelihoods. Google would need to share its wealth with the millions who could no longer find work and provide a "universal basic income," he argued.
Mr. Musk agreed. But it was pretty clear that his Google guests were not prepared to embark on a redistribution of (their) wealth. Mr. Schmidt said he thought the worries were completely overblown. In his usual whisper, Mr. Page agreed. A.I. would create more jobs than it took away, he argued.
Eight months later, DeepMind had a breakthrough that stunned the A.I community and the world. A DeepMind machine called AlphaGo beat one of the world's best players at the ancient game of Go. The game, streamed over the internet, was watched by 200 million people across the globe. Most researchers had assumed that A.I. needed another 10 years to muster the ingenuity to do that.
Rationalists, effective altruists and others who worried about the risks of A.I. claimed the computer's win validated their fears.
"This is another indication that A.I. is progressing faster than even many experts anticipated," Victoria Krakovna, who would soon join DeepMind as an "A.I. safety" researcher, wrote in a blog post.
DeepMind's founders were increasingly worried about what Google would do with their inventions. In 2017, they tried to break away from the company. Google responded by increasing the salaries and stock award packages of the DeepMind founders and their staff. They stayed put.
The ethics board never had a second meeting.
The Breakup
Convinced that Mr. Page's optimistic view of A.I. was dead wrong, and angry at his loss of DeepMind, Mr. Musk built his own lab.
OpenAI was founded in late 2015, just a few months after he met with Sam Altman at the Rosewood hotel in Silicon Valley. Mr. Musk pumped money into the lab, and his former PayPal buddies, Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Thiel, came along for the ride. The three men and others pledged to put $ 1 billion into the project, which Mr. Altman, who was 30 at the time, would help run. To get them started, they poached Ilya Sutskever from Google. (Dr. Sutskever was one of the graduate students Google "bought" in Dr. Hinton's auction.)
Initially, Mr. Musk wanted to operate OpenAI as a nonprofit, free from the economic incentives that were driving Google and other corporations. But by the time Google wowed the tech community with its Go stunt, Mr. Musk was changing his mind about how it should be run. He desperately wanted OpenAI to invent something that would capture the world's imagination and close the gap with Google, but it wasn't getting the job done as a nonprofit.
In late 2017, he hatched a plan to wrest control of the lab from Mr. Altman and the other founders and transform it into a commercial operation that would join forces with Tesla and rely on supercomputers the car company was developing, according to four people familiar with the matter.
When Mr. Altman and others pushed back, Mr. Musk quit and said he would focus on his own A.I. work at Tesla. In February 2018, he announced his departure to OpenAI's staff on the top floor of the start-up's offices in a converted truck factory, three people who attended the meeting said. When he said that OpenAI needed to move faster, one researcher retorted at the meeting that Mr. Musk was being reckless.
Mr. Musk called the researcher a "jackass" and stormed out, taking his deep pockets with him.
OpenAI suddenly needed new financing in a hurry. Mr. Altman flew to Sun Valley for a conference and ran into Satya Nadella, Microsoft's chief executive. A tie-up seemed natural. Mr. Altman knew Microsoft's chief technology officer, Kevin Scott. Microsoft had bought LinkedIn from Mr. Hoffman, an OpenAI board member. Mr. Nadella told Mr. Scott to get it done. The deal closed in 2019.
Mr. Altman and OpenAI had formed a for-profit company under the original nonprofit, they had $ 1 billion in fresh capital, and Microsoft had a new way to build artificial intelligence into its vast cloud computing service.
Not everyone inside OpenAI was happy.
Dario Amodei, a researcher with ties to the effective altruist community, had been on hand at the Rosewood hotel when OpenAI was born. Dr. Amodei, who endlessly twisted his curls between his fingers as he talked, was leading the lab's efforts to build a neural network called a large language model that could learn from enormous amounts of digital text. By analyzing countless Wikipedia articles, digital books and message boards, it could generate text on its own. It also had the unfortunate habit of making things up. It was called GPT-3, and it was released in the summer of 2020.
Researchers inside OpenAI, Google and other companies thought this rapidly improving technology could be a path to A.G.I.
But Dr. Amodei was unhappy about the Microsoft deal because he thought it was taking OpenAI in a really commercial direction. He and other researchers went to the board to try to push Mr. Altman out, according to five people familiar with the matter. After they failed, they left. Like DeepMind's founders before them, they worried that their new corporate overlords would favor commercial interests over safety.
In 2021, the group of about 15 engineers and scientists created a new lab called Anthropic. The plan was to build A.I. the way the effective altruists thought it should done -- with very tight controls.
"There was no attempt to remove Sam Altman from OpenAI by the co-founders of Anthropic," said an Anthropic spokeswoman, Sally Aldous. "The co-founders themselves came to the conclusion that they wished to depart OpenAI to start their own company, made this known to OpenAI's leadership, and over several weeks negotiated an exit on mutually agreeable terms."
Anthropic accepted a $ 4 billion investment from Amazon and another $ 2 billion from Google two years later.
The Reveal
After OpenAI received another $ 2 billion from Microsoft, Mr. Altman and another senior executive, Greg Brockman, visited Bill Gates at his sprawling mansion on the shores of Lake Washington, outside Seattle. The Microsoft founder was no longer involved in the company day to day but kept in regular touch with its executives.
Over dinner, Mr. Gates told them he doubted that large language models could work. He would stay skeptical, he said, until the technology performed a task that required critical thinking -- passing an A.P. biology test, for instance.
Five months later, on Aug. 24, 2022, Mr. Altman and Mr. Brockman returned and brought along an OpenAI researcher named Chelsea Voss. Ms. Voss had been a medalist in an international biology Olympiad as a high schooler. Mr. Nadella and other Microsoft executives were there, too.
On a huge digital display on a stand outside Mr. Gates's living room, the OpenAI crew presented a technology called GPT-4.
Mr. Brockman gave the system a multiple-choice advanced biology test, and Ms. Voss graded the answers. The first question involved polar molecules, groups of atoms with a positive charge at one end and a negative charge at the other. The system answered correctly and explained its choice. "It was only trained to provide an answer," Mr. Brockman said. "The conversational nature kind of fell out, almost magically." In other words, it was doing things they hadn't really designed it to do.
There were 60 questions. GPT-4 got only one answer wrong.
Mr. Gates sat up in his chair, his eyes opened wide. In 1980, he had a similar reaction when researchers showed him the graphical user interface that became the basis for the modern personal computer. He thought GPT was that revolutionary.
By October, Microsoft was adding the technology across its online services, including its Bing search engine. And two months later OpenAI released its ChatGPT chatbot, which is now used by 100 million people every week.
OpenAI had beat the effective altruists at Anthropic. Mr. Page's optimists at Google scurried to release their own chatbot, Bard, but were widely perceived to have lost the race to OpenAI. Three months after ChatGPT's release, Google stock was down 11 percent. Mr. Musk was nowhere to be found.
But it was just the beginning.
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Illustration \This article appeared in print on page A1, A14, A15.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Startups; Debates; Chatbots; Science fiction & fantasy; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; Napa Valley; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

People: Musk, Elon; Page, Larry; Altman, Sam; Thiel, Peter

Company / organization: Name: Google DeepMind; NAICS: 513210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/03/technology/ai-openai-musk-page-altman.html

Title: How Money, Ego and Fear Lit A.I.'s Fuse:   [Series ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 4, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2896672295

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-money-ego-fear-lit-i-s-fuse/docview/2896672295/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bigwigs' Planned City Is Met by Scowls: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Dougherty, Conor; Coral Murphy Marcos

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor; Coral Murphy Marcos. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bigwigs-planned-city-is-met-scowls/docview/2895613981/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At the first town hall meeting in support of the project, residents of Solano County, Calif., pelted one of its leaders with skepticism and questions.
Jan Sramek has spent the past several months in restaurants and conference rooms pitching politicians, environmentalists and labor unions on a plan to erect a new California city on open farmland in an eastern corner of the San Francisco Bay Area. The project is backed by a host of big Silicon Valley names, including the venture capitalists Michael Moritz and Marc Andreessen, the LinkedIn co-founder, Reid Hoffman, and the Emerson Collective founder, Laurene Powell Jobs.
At an event Wednesday evening, Mr. Sramek, the chief executive of a company called California Forever, took his case to the Solano County voters.
The crowd was not convinced.
Before the event started, protesters had gathered on the steps of the meeting site, the Vallejo Naval & Historical Museum, holding signs that read, "Transparency not trickery" and "Flannery Will Ruin California for EVER." During the event, attendees complained about Mr. Sramek's billionaire backers, said they were worried that a new city would displace current residents, and met talk of jobs with questions about the data.
Mr. Sramek took it in stride, patiently answering questions and appearing mostly unruffled. He promised improved infrastructure, employment and middle-class homes for the county's 450,000 residents.
"If not here, where?" he asked the crowd of about 100 people.
"Not here!" an audience member yelled back.
Many of the protest signs made references to Flannery Associates, a subsidiary of California Forever that over the past five years has spent $ 900 million buying more than 50,000 acres of farmland. The company said little about its backers or intentions, leading to wild speculation about what the company's plans were until August, when The New York Times reported the backers' identities and their hope for a new city. Some thought it could be the site of a new Disneyland; others, including members of Congress, worried that a foreign government was behind it. (Flannery's land now surrounds Travis Air Force Base.)
The revelation that Flannery is in fact not a spying operation but a developer looking to develop has done little to quell anxiety but instead turned one kind of fear into another. On Wednesday the skeptical crowd pelted Mr. Sramek with questions on a variety of issues: the potential for traffic, whether the development would interfere with the base where many Solano County residents work -- and oh, by the way, where would they get the water for a new city?
Over the next months and years, California Forever will likely be focused on an overarching problem: most of what it wants to build is currently not allowed. To change that, the company would need to clear a raft of hurdles that require blessings from the local, state (and potentially) federal governments.
The first of those hurdles is Solano County's decades-old slow-growth ordinance, which aims to direct development to existing cities. California Forever has said that next year it would pursue a ballot initiative to amend the ordinance, making a direct appeal to voters.
Another question that continues to dog the project is why California Forever wants to build in a rural area far from the Bay Area's urban core -- in other words, why it wants sprawl. While the event was held in Vallejo, a bayside city of 120,000 that is Solano County's largest, the land in question is an hour's drive away and consists mostly of rolling hills covered with sheep and wind turbines. Mr. Sramek has repeatedly countered the accusation he's promoting sprawl by saying that, while he is a fan of "infill" development in existing cities, it hasn't produced enough housing to meet the region's needs.
"The definition of insanity is to keep doing the same thing over again and expecting it's going to change," he said on Wednesday.
During a slide show presentation, Mr. Sramek tried to assuage attendees with bullet points about the project, his backers, and his own background (Goldman Sachs, "but left to found an education company that helped workers acquire new skills"). He said plans for the project's precise location would be revealed next year. In the meantime, California Forever has created a more impressionistic picture with computer-generated images like a tree-lined street of row homes with cartoon children riding bicycles out front.
Many of Mr. Sramek's assurances came in the form of promises about what the project would not be. A slide that read, "What we're not doing" listed the marsh the company doesn't plan to build on and the prairie it would avoid. California Forever would not build "a gated community for the rich" and will not be "telling Solano county what to do."
Were the company to get permission to build, it would create a lot of construction jobs. During the meeting Mr. Sramek dangled the possibility of other benefits but fell well short of a commitment. One slide said the "ideas being discussed" included down payment assistance for homeowners, money to rebuild the downtowns in Solano County cities and funding for local nonprofits.
"There is nothing more democratic than saying 'We have an idea to make Solano County better; we believe in that idea so much, we are going to invest $ 900 million,"' Mr. Sramek began one exchange.
"In secret!" someone yelled.
After the meeting, one attendee, Phillip Balbuena, a 43-year-old facilities manager, said he had moved to Solano County after being priced out of the city of Fremont, which is a bridge away from the heart of Silicon Valley. His fear was that the project would put pressure on prices and force him and others to move again.
"We're already overburdened," he said.
Critiques like this cut to the heart of the Bay Area's, and the nation's, housing troubles. The root of California's rising rents and home prices is a long-term shortage in the number of units. But neighbors remain leery of development to relieve it, and are resentful that most of the new homes target higher-income families.
"It's really simple: We just aren't building enough houses," Mr. Sramek said Wednesday.
Mr. Sramek's housing shortage argument was in line with the arguments that California legislators, a supermajority of them Democrats, have been making for the past decade. But the size of his proposal, the backing from some of the world's richest people, and the fact his company spent five years cloaking its intentions, overshadowed the policy debate he seemed to want to have.
Photograph Flannery Associates has bought over 50,000 acres in Solano County, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Farmland purchased by Flannery Associates for the project in the Bay Area now surrounds Travis Air Force Base. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN G MABANGLO/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Rents; Voters; Cities; Housing prices

Business indexing term: Subject: Housing prices

Location: Silicon Valley-California; California; United States--US; Solano County California

Company / organization: Name: Travis Air Force Base; NAICS: 928110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/30/business/solano-county-california-forever-city.html

Title: Bigwigs' Planned City Is Met by Scowls:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 1, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2895613981

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bigwigs-planned-city-is-met-scowls/docview/2895613981/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Popular Science's Decline Resumes as Online Magazine Closes: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Levenson, Michael

Publication info: Levenson, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/popular-sciences-decline-resumes-as-online/docview/2895100524/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The decision came three years after the publication ended its storied print edition, which began in 1872. It will still publish articles and videos on its website.
In yet another sign of its decline, Popular Science has stopped publishing its online magazine, three years after it shut its storied print edition, which began in 1872.
Popular Science will continue to publish articles and videos on its website, and will still produce its podcast, "The Weirdest Thing I Learned This Week."
But its digital magazine, which was published quarterly since it began in 2021, has ceased publication and will no longer charge for subscriptions, according to Recurrent Ventures, the magazine's parent company.
Its last online issue, titled "Fake," was published in September and featured articles about taxidermy, artificial intelligence and fake crystals.
"Like most media companies, Recurrent is adapting to the evolving landscape of its audience," Cathy Hebert, a company spokeswoman, said in a statement on Tuesday. "Whether it's due to shifting patterns in social media, an increase in consumer demand for video or shifting advertising budgets -- which have also increasingly moved toward video -- it's clear that change is a consistent theme."
The decision came about two weeks after Axios, citing an unnamed source, reported that Recurrent Ventures had cut 13 positions at Popular Science. Only five editorial staff members remain at the publication, Axios reported.
Ms. Hebert declined to confirm how many workers had left but acknowledged "a reduction of head count within several brands and operational teams."
Recurrent Ventures has been going through its own period of change, having recently announced its third chief executive in three years. The company was created in 2021 by North Equity, a private equity firm, to manage Popular Science, The Drive, Domino, Field & Stream and other media outlets that North Equity had acquired.
The closure of the digital magazine saddened and infuriated some former Popular Science staff members who noted that the publication's rich tradition of science journalism began 151 years ago, and included articles by Charles Darwin, Louis Pasteur and Isaac Asimov.
Over the decades, Popular Science explored photography, hovercrafts, gyrocopters, spaceflight and the fight for more legroom on commercial airplanes, all with an eye to the general interest reader. Even in recent years, it won National Magazine Awards for "The Tiny Issue," about all things small, in 2019, and "The Heat Issue," about climate change, in 2022.
The magazine was also known for making fantastical predictions about the future and for offering quirky do-it-yourself projects like a motorized "yard tractor" that could be built from a kit and a homemade "plane detector" that could spot enemy aircraft, which was introduced after the bombing of Pearl Harbor.
"I'm frustrated, incensed, and appalled that the owners shut down a pioneering publication that's adapted to 151 years worth of changes in the space of a five-minute Zoom call," Purbita Saha, a former senior deputy editor, wrote on LinkedIn. She said she had been laid off on Nov. 13.
"I have some talented colleagues who are still producing news, reviews, and podcasts for popsci.com, but PopSci the magazine will cease to exist," she wrote.
The cuts came after National Geographic, another venerable science magazine, shed writers and other staff members in a round of layoffs announced in April, months after it laid off several top editors last year. Other media outlets, including BuzzFeed, The Los Angeles Times, Vox Media and The Washington Post, have also made staff reductions.
Rick Edmonds, a media business analyst at the Poynter Institute, a school for journalists, said that the end of Popular Science's online magazine was another step "along the way to try to find some format that is less expensive and that can hold some number of readers."
He said it would be presumptuous to call it "the last step before the graveyard," but added that it could be "tough to rebuild and build an ad base."
Jacob Ward, a former editor in chief of Popular Science, said the demise of the online magazine "breaks my heart." He noted that early print editions featured oil paintings on the covers, like one he keeps at home of a man in protective gear filming on the rim of a glowing volcano.
Popular Science was "very beautiful, very historical" and "a real treasure of American popular intellectual publishing," he said in a video posted on LinkedIn. But he said that it was "just kind of disposable in the minds of people who make money for a living."
Joe Brown, who was editor in chief from 2016 until 2020, said that doing away with the magazine would make it harder to unite stories around a common theme, and to provide the context that he said was missing in a lot of daily journalism. He said he was concerned that the remaining staff members would have to "feed the beast" to keep the website fresh.
Given the recent layoffs, "I don't see how they can keep everything up," he said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Science; Magazines; Layoffs; Editors; Electronic periodicals

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs

Company / organization: Name: Popular Science; NAICS: 513120; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/28/business/media/popular-science-magazine-closes.html

Title: Popular Science's Decline Resumes as Online Magazine Closes:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2895100524

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/popular-sciences-decline-resumes-as-online/docview/2895100524/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A.I. Worry Hits Big Title In Sports: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Nerkar, Santul; Draper, Kevin

Publication info: Nerkar, Santul; Draper, Kevin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-worry-hits-big-title-sports/docview/2894616252/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The venerable magazine has experienced management upheaval and staff complaints in recent years. Now there's a question over who wrote product reviews on its site.
Three years ago, journalists at Sports Illustrated were worried that the venerable magazine's new owners and operators were drastically lowering its standards. They noted reports of plagiarism, and worried about substandard writing and the use of freelance reporters with little due diligence. The journalists also wanted better pay, greater transparency during the hiring process and a guarantee that all work published on the Sports Illustrated website would be edited.
It appears that things have not improved since then.
On Monday, the science and technology publication Futurism reported that Sports Illustrated had published product reviews under fake author names with fake author biographies. Futurism could find no evidence that the supposed authors were real, and the photographs with the bios could be found on websites that sell artificial intelligence-generated headshots. Futurism also raised the possibility that artificial intelligence had generated the words in the reviews.
"If true, these practices violate everything we believe in about journalism," the union representing Sports Illustrated journalists said in a statement after the report was published. "We deplore being associated with something so disrespectful to our readers."
The Arena Group, which publishes Sports Illustrated under a complicated management structure, blamed a vendor, AdVon Commerce, for the situation. Sports Illustrated licenses product reviews from AdVon, and AdVon assured the Arena Group that "all of the articles in question were written and edited by humans," said Rachael Fink, an Arena Group spokeswoman. She added that AdVon "had writers use a pen or pseudo name in certain articles to protect author privacy."
Arena has now ended its partnership with AdVon and is investigating AdVon's assurances that artificial intelligence was not used to write the articles.
According to Arena, AdVon said it used "both counterplagiarism and counter-A.I. software." But AdVon markets itself to potential customers as a company deeply involved in artificial intelligence. On LinkedIn, AdVon says it develops machine learning and artificial intelligence for e-commerce. A page for the candidacy of Ben Faw, AdVon's co-founder and chief executive, for the board of directors for Harvard's alumni association similarly describes AdVon as using machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Mr. Faw did not respond to requests for comment.
For more than a half century, Sports Illustrated was the standard-bearer in sports journalism. It was the home of sportswriting titans like Frank Deford and Dan Jenkins, and photographers like Walter Iooss and Jim Drake. Making the cover of the magazine or winning its Sportsman (later Sportsperson) of the Year award was the mark of a star, from Muhammad Ali to Naomi Osaka. The magazine's extremely profitable swimsuit issue arrived like a cultural thunderclap year after year.
At its peak, Sports Illustrated had a print circulation of more than three million. The magazine has struggled, however, to adapt to the digital age. Monday's revelation was just the latest sign of drift at Sports Illustrated, exacerbated by a relentless pursuit of engagement with the site's non-journalistic entities.
"If you look at the magazine's history, there's just been a series of bad editorial decisions," said Michael MacCambridge, a journalist and the author of 1997's "The Franchise: A History of Sports Illustrated Magazine."
In 2019, the media conglomerate Meredith sold Sports Illustrated's intellectual property to the Authentic Brands Group. It also sold a 10-year license to publish Sports Illustrated to TheMaven, which has since been rebranded as the Arena Group. According to financial filings, Arena pays Authentic Brands $ 15 million annually for the right to operate Sports Illustrated.
Authentic Brands' business model mostly involves buying fashion brands that are down on their luck or in bankruptcy -- Brooks Brothers, Aéropostale, Forever 21 -- and then shedding legacy commitments, cutting costs and operating the brand while banking on its name recognition.
The Sports Illustrated brand has been attached to nutritional supplements, and the chief executive of Authentic Brands once envisioned Sports Illustrated-branded medical clinics.
Since 2019, there have been repeated rounds of layoffs at Sports Illustrated and reductions in the circulation of the print magazine. Hundreds of sites dedicated to individual teams -- helmed by non-staff writers paid small sums -- were created with little oversight and diluted what it meant for "Sports Illustrated" to write something.
Sports Illustrated's problems began before Authentic Brands and Arena. Under its original owner, Time Inc., there were layoffs -- including the last remaining staff photographers at a publication celebrated for its sports photography -- and it went from being a weekly print magazine to a monthly.
But the stewardship by Authentic Brands and Arena has been particularly rocky. Because Authentic Brands retains the rights to Sports Illustrated's brand, Arena's options for generating revenue are somewhat limited, encouraging a daily churn of articles. Employees have complained publicly that Arena has been dismissive of concerns about article quality and a lack of editors -- made worse in February when 17 members of the staff were laid off -- all while enforcing weekly quotas from writers.
Last month, the newspaper publisher Gannett found itself in a situation very similar to Sports Illustrated's. Product reviews on a site that Gannett owns, Reviewed, looked suspiciously like articles not written by humans, and nobody who works for Reviewed recognized the purported authors. A spokeswoman for Gannett said the articles had been "created by third-party freelancers hired by a marketing agency partner, not A.I." That marketing agency partner was AdVon.
G/O Media, CNET and The Columbus Dispatch in Ohio have also experienced controversies related to publishing articles written by computers without adequate human oversight. The Associated Press, whose policies are often adopted as standards throughout the news industry, recently released its own artificial intelligence guidelines. They say that any output from A.I. tools should "be treated as unvetted source material," and that The A.P. would not use images generated by artificial intelligence.
Photograph At its peak, Sports Illustrated's print circulation exceeded three million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TAGGART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Journalism; Machine learning; Writers; Journalists; Artificial intelligence; Magazines; Product reviews; Layoffs

Business indexing term: Subject: Machine learning Artificial intelligence Layoffs

Company / organization: Name: Arena Group; NAICS: 711310; Name: Sports Illustrated; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/28/business/sports-illustrated-artifical-intelligence.html

Title: A.I. Worry Hits Big Title In Sports:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 29, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2894616252

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-worry-hits-big-title-sports/docview/2894616252/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A.I. Firm's Ties To China Rattle Top U.S. Spies: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Mazzetti, Mark; Wong, Edward

Publication info: Mazzetti, Mark; Wong, Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-firms-ties-china-rattle-top-u-s-spies/docview/2894255706/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When the secretive national security adviser of the United Arab Emirates, Sheikh Tahnoon bin Zayed, visited the White House in June, his American counterpart, Jake Sullivan, raised a delicate issue: G42, an artificial intelligence firm controlled by the sheikh that American officials believe is hiding the extent of its work with China.
In public, the company has announced its staggering growth with a steady cadence of news releases. They have included agreements with European pharmaceutical giants like AstraZeneca and a $ 100 million deal with a Silicon Valley firm to build what the companies boast will be the "world's largest supercomputer." Last month, G42 announced a partnership with OpenAI, the creator of ChatGPT.
But in classified American intelligence channels, there have been more concerning reports about the company. The C.I.A. and other American spy agencies have issued warnings about G42's work with large Chinese companies that U.S. officials consider security threats, including Huawei, the telecommunications giant that is under U.S. sanctions.
U.S. officials fear G42 could be a conduit by which advanced American technology is siphoned to Chinese companies or the government. The intelligence reports have also warned that G42's dealings with Chinese firms could be a pipeline to get the genetic data of millions of Americans and others into the hands of the Chinese government, according to two officials familiar with the reports.
The C.I.A. even produced a classified profile of Peng Xiao, the chief executive of G42 who was educated in the United States and renounced his American citizenship for an Emirati one, U.S. officials say. The conclusions of the C.I.A. document about Mr. Xiao are unclear.
During the White House meeting in June with Sheikh Tahnoon and in other discussions of the past year, the Biden administration raised concerns about the company's leadership and pushed for G42 to sever ties with Chinese companies and any agencies, according to a dozen people familiar with the discussions. The Americans have even pointed to the prospect of sanctions against the Emirati firm. The Biden administration's concerns about G42 and its pressure campaign with the Emirates are being reported here for the first time.
On sensitive emerging technologies, the Emirates must choose between the United States and China, American officials have told their Emirati counterparts.
For years, the United States has been trying to limit China's influence in the Middle East, and American officials believe Chinese efforts to build military bases and sell weapons in the region are urgent national security concerns. Today, however, there is a new frontier in this effort: blunting China's ambitions to gain supremacy in the world's cutting-edge technologies, including artificial intelligence, big data, quantum computing, cloud computing, surveillance infrastructure and genomic research.
G42 is at the center of this fight.
U.S. officials are watching for signs of progress but decline to discuss details of the talks, which have involved the White House and various agencies. They have taken place over months in Washington and in Abu Dhabi, the Emirati capital where both William J. Burns, the C.I.A. director, and Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo have discussed the matter with the Emiratis during different trips this year. Tarun Chhabra, the National Security Council's senior director for technology, has also raised concerns with officials in Abu Dhabi.
This article is based on interviews with American government officials, tech analysts and American and foreign business executives, some of whom agreed to speak only on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitive diplomacy over G42.
The company is a crown jewel for the U.A.E., which is building an artificial intelligence industry as an alternative to oil income. The small but powerful Middle Eastern country, led by its president, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, is also cultivating closer ties to China and Russia, in part to lessen its dependence on the United States, the main military partner and arms supplier of the Emirates.
As of now, it is unclear whether U.S. officials have shared their concerns over G42 with American companies that have partnerships with it.
The American efforts to scrutinize and restrict the activities of G42 are emblematic of the murky world in which U.S. spy agencies operate in their broader espionage shadow war with China. As the superpower rivalry intensifies, U.S. policymakers are relying on intelligence collection and analysis to help head off China's efforts to make technological advances that would erode America's military edge.
Companies in almost every sector around the globe have ties to China, the world's second-largest economy. And the U.S. efforts to put G42 under a microscope show how difficult it is for intelligence agencies to discern whether a foreign company with commercial ties to China has links to that country's military or its security and intelligence agencies.
In some cases, a partnership between a foreign company and a Chinese firm that is considered a favorite of the government or Communist Party -- Huawei, for instance -- is enough to set off alarms in Washington. Those relations are often opaque when they involve companies working in advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence that have both civilian and military uses.
In the case of G42, the C.I.A. and other government departments have investigated the ties between G42 and Chinese companies and officials. They have flagged some specific areas of concern -- pointing out, for instance, that G42's "stack," or its underlying technology infrastructure, has been built with the help of Chinese companies, including Huawei. Intelligence agencies have scrutinized a subsidiary of G42 called Presight AI, U.S. officials said. The company sells surveillance technology to police forces worldwide, including software nearly identical to products popular with Chinese police.
Kathleen Waters, a deputy spokeswoman for the National Security Council, declined to address specific issues with G42. She called the Emirates an "important partner" but said White House officials have made clear to the Emiratis and others the administration's "strong concerns about the P.R.C. seeking military and intelligence advantages through the acquisition of sensitive U.S. technologies and data, which the Biden administration is determined to protect." (The P.R.C. is the People's Republic of China.)
"This will continue to be a focus of intensive engagement with the U.A.E. and many other countries, and we welcome progress to date," Ms. Waters added.
Yousef Al Otaiba, the Emirati ambassador in Washington, declined to comment.
G42 declined a request for an interview with Mr. Xiao, its chief executive, and did not answer questions about its partnerships with specific Chinese companies or about U.S. government concerns over those. In a statement to The New York Times, Talal Al Kaissi, a senior executive at the company, said the firm had worked "with various international technology players from around the world." He noted that it began discussions with Microsoft late last year to try to replace its technology stack or infrastructure. This year, he said, it decided to look to U.S. companies, including Cerebras and Nvidia, to upgrade a supercomputer and shift from its "legacy technology supplier, which included Chinese hardware."
The company ensures operations and licensed technologies "remain in full compliance" with U.S. government regulations and talks to U.S. agencies about staying aligned with those, he said. It is "partnering with leading companies and institutions with shared values and developing responsible A.I. solutions," he added.
'The Ultimate Question of Life'
G42's name is drawn from "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy," the science-fiction series by Douglas Adams, in which the number 42 represents the answer to "the ultimate question of life, the universe and everything." (The G stands for group.)
"Forty-two is really our mission," Mr. Xiao said in a promotional video for the company last year. "In that amazing book, 42 was the answer to the meaning of life."
Within that wide remit, G42 encompasses a $ 10 billion technology investment fund, an Arabic language A.I. model, a tech talent platform, a health care company, a genome-sequencing program and more. G42's investments overseas include a $ 100 million purchase early this year of shares in ByteDance, the Chinese company that is the parent of TikTok, the popular social media app, according to a Bloomberg News report.
In a promotional video, Mr. Xiao said he believed that the impact of artificial intelligence on human civilization would be "much more profound than fire, electricity or even internet."
In addition to collaborations with Chinese companies, G42 has also signed agreements with American companies including Microsoft and Dell Technologies.
Mr. Xiao has impressed some of his American partners.
"He's a visionary," said Andrew Feldman, the chief executive of Cerebras, the Silicon Valley A.I. firm that is partnering with G42 on the supercomputer project. "He's knowledgeable and thoughtful. I found somebody with a shared vision,"
Besides its work with G42, Cerebras has several U.S. government contracts, including with the Air Force Research Laboratory and the Department of Energy, according to public records and Mr. Feldman.
Mr. Feldman said he was surprised to hear about the Biden administration's concerns about G42 and said that no American officials have raised those concerns with him or other officers at Cerebras.
OpenAI and Microsoft declined to comment, and Dell said, "We comply with global regulations and have nothing additional to add."
Social Media and Genetic Data
Sheikh Tahnoon, the company's sunglasses-obsessed chairman, is one of the Emirates' most powerful men. Even in a state where senior officials often hold multiple posts, Sheikh Tahnoon, a brother of the Emirati president, stands out. In addition to overseeing a secretive conglomerate called the "International Holding Company" -- the country's most valuable listed firm -- Sheikh Tahnoon is also the deputy ruler of the emirate of Abu Dhabi and head of an $ 853 billion sovereign wealth fund. (Another family-run sovereign wealth fund, Mubadala, has a stake in G42.)
Mr. Xiao has been a part of Sheikh Tahnoon's ventures for some time, and several of the past partnerships have set off alarms within American spy agencies.
There is very little about Mr. Xiao's background online, which is rare for a chief executive of a prominent company. His LinkedIn page and corporate profiles say he earned bachelor's degrees at Hawaii Pacific University and a master's degree at George Washington University in the 1990s, but there is no information on his years before college.
His LinkedIn account says he worked from 1999 to 2014 as a chief technology officer for MicroStrategy, a technology company in Virginia. He has rarely given individual interviews to journalists but has done some public talks. An online post by China's embassy in the Emirates that mentions him uses the Chinese name 肖鹏.
Four years ago, a firm led by Mr. Xiao had a hand in the operation of a social media app, ToTok, that American intelligence agencies identified as a spy tool that the Emirati government was using to track the movements and conversations of its users. Chinese engineers helped create the app.
The data harvested from the app, according to a 2019 American intelligence assessment, was stored by an Emirati firm called Pax AI, which Mr. Xiao ran.
Bill Marczak of Citizen Lab, a digital watchdog group at the University of Toronto, has researched the constellation of companies controlled by Sheikh Tahnoon, and called them "master classes in blending state power and business."
"Because ToTok worked so well, its popularity took off among Emiratis and their contacts abroad," Mr. Marczak said. "And since the app's encryption didn't prevent Group 42 from accessing ToTok users' conversations, the app could have fed a huge volume of juicy data back to U.A.E. intelligence."
Mr. Marczak said that G42 "seems to have absorbed assets and personnel from Chinese chat app YeeCall in order to create ToTok." After a New York Times investigation into ToTok in 2019, company representatives denied that it had been built to be a spy tool.
At the start of the coronavirus pandemic in 2020, G42 partnered with a Chinese biotech firm, BGI Genomics, to distribute its Covid-19 tests, and the Emirati government donated tens of thousands of the tests to the State of Nevada. American officials warned Nevada officials not to distribute the tests out of concern that the operation could be a secret ploy by the Chinese government to gather genetic information about Americans from the tests, The Associated Press reported.
In March, the Biden administration put subsidiaries of BGI on a Commerce Department blacklist and said that collection and analysis of genetic data done by the companies "poses a significant risk of contributing to monitoring and surveillance by the government of China."
In June 2020, Mr. Xiao and Emirati leaders announced that G42 was partnering with Sinopharm, the Chinese drug giant, to do Phase 3 of clinical trials for a Covid-19 vaccine. That trial expanded to other nations in the region, including Bahrain, whose crown prince spoke by video with Mr. Xiao and the chairman of Sinopharm, according to an online post by China's embassy in Bahrain.
In March 2021, Wang Yi, China's foreign minister, announced on a visit to the Emirates that G42 and Sinopharm would produce the vaccine in Abu Dhabi.
One of Mr. Xiao's previous ventures, Pegasus, signed an agreement in 2017 with Huawei to develop surveillance technologies for police forces. That company was owned by DarkMatter, a cyber-intelligence and hacking firm that employs former spies. It had no relation to the notorious spyware also called Pegasus that was developed by NSO Group, an Israeli firm.
Charging Into the Middle East
The Chinese government has made no secret of its intentions to expand the country's economic and military footprint in the Middle East. The deepening ties between China and the U.A.E. have been a cause for particular alarm for American officials.
The Emirates regularly purchases billions of dollars worth of American military equipment, but the country has also shown eagerness to buy Chinese military hardware.
The Trump administration cultivated close ties to Emirati leaders, but national security officials were wary of the U.A.E.'s growing ties to China. Several officials disliked the fact that Huawei was providing main elements of the country's technology infrastructure. That issue became more contentious after the United States agreed in 2020 to sell advanced F-35 fighter jets to the Emirates as an incentive to get the country to normalize ties with Israel.
American officials try to ensure technology around those jets does not fall into the hands of adversaries. Around this time, U.S. agencies began looking more closely at Mr. Xiao and G42 because of its prominent role in technology in the Emirates. G42 opened an office in Israel after normalization. (The F-35 deal ultimately did not go through.)
Early in the Biden administration, American officials confronted Emirati officials with satellite images that they argued showed China was building a military base in the country. Since then, U.S. officials say, the Emirates has suspended the project. Emirati officials insist it was commercial port construction.
Still, C.I.A. officials have made regular trips to Abu Dhabi to present classified information to the Emirates that buttresses the Americans' concerns about security and technology ties between China and the U.A.E.
In June, just days after White House officials privately raised concerns about G42 to the Emirati national security chief, Mr. Xiao took the stage for a companywide town hall for G42's fifth anniversary.
At the event, which the company called "Supercharged," Mr. Xiao said the company was just getting started.
Vivian Nereim contributed reporting from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Paul Mozur from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and Taipei, Taiwan, and Amy Chang Chien from Taipei.
Vivian Nereim contributed reporting from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Paul Mozur from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and Taipei, Taiwan, and Amy Chang Chien from Taipei.
Photograph PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRISTIANA COUCEIRO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10); A Covid testing lab provided by the Chinese biotech company BGI Genomics in Beijing in 2020. Its subsidiaries are on a Commerce Department blacklist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHEN ZHONGHAO/XINHUA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS); Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, the Emirati leader, center, reviewing an honor guard with President Xi Jinping of China in Beijing in 2019. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY WONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS); A booth for Presight AI, a G24 subsidiary, at the World Police Summit in Dubai in March. It sells surveillance technology to police forces worldwide. (A11) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10, A11.

Subject: Infrastructure; Artificial intelligence; National security; Supercomputers; Military bases; Surveillance; Espionage; Technology; Intelligence services; International relations-US; Partnerships

Business indexing term: Subject: Infrastructure Artificial intelligence Partnerships

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates; China; United Arab Emirates

Company / organization: Name: National Security Council; NAICS: 928110; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: G42 (AI research); NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/27/us/politics/ai-us-uae-china-security-g42.html

Title: A.I. Firm's Ties To China Rattle Top U.S. Spies:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 28, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2894255706

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-firms-ties-china-rattle-top-u-s-spies/docview/2894255706/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside U.S. Efforts to Untangle an AI Giant’s Ties to China

Author: Mazzetti, Mark; Wong, Edward

Publication info: Mazzetti, Mark; Wong, Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-u-s-efforts-untangle-ai-giant-ties-china/docview/2894071194/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — When the secretive national security adviser of the United Arab Emirates, Sheikh Tahnoon bin Zayed, visited the White House in June, his American counterpart, Jake Sullivan, raised a delicate issue: G42, an artificial intelligence firm controlled by the sheikh that American officials believe is hiding the extent of its work with China.
In public, the company has announced its staggering growth with a steady cadence of news releases. They have included agreements with European pharmaceutical giants like AstraZeneca and a $100 million deal with a Silicon Valley firm to build what the companies boast will be the “world’s largest supercomputer.” Last month, G42 announced a partnership with OpenAI, the creator of ChatGPT.
But in classified American intelligence channels, there have been more concerning reports about the company. The CIA and other American spy agencies have issued warnings about G42’s work with large Chinese companies that U.S. officials consider security threats, including Huawei, the telecommunications giant that is under U.S. sanctions.
U.S. officials fear G42 could be a conduit by which advanced American technology is siphoned to Chinese companies or the government. The intelligence reports have also warned that G42’s dealings with Chinese firms could be a pipeline to get the genetic data of millions of Americans and others into the hands of the Chinese government, according to two officials familiar with the reports.
The CIA even produced a classified profile of Peng Xiao, the CEO of G42 who was educated in the United States and renounced his American citizenship for a UAE one, U.S. officials say. The conclusions of the CIA document about Xiao are unclear.
During the White House meeting in June with Sheikh Tahnoon and in other discussions of the past year, the Biden administration raised concerns about the company’s leadership and pushed for G42 to sever ties with Chinese companies and any agencies, according to a dozen people familiar with the discussions. The Americans have even pointed to the prospect of sanctions against the UAE firm. The Biden administration’s concerns about G42 and its pressure campaign with the Emirates are being reported here for the first time.
On sensitive emerging technologies, the Emirates must choose between the United States and China, American officials have told their UAE counterparts.
For years, the United States has been trying to limit China’s influence in the Middle East, and American officials believe Chinese efforts to build military bases and sell weapons in the region are urgent national security concerns. Today, however, there is a new frontier in this effort: blunting China’s ambitions to gain supremacy in the world’s cutting-edge technologies, including artificial intelligence, big data, quantum computing, cloud computing, surveillance infrastructure and genomic research.
G42 is at the center of this fight.
U.S. officials are watching for signs of progress but decline to discuss details of the talks, which have involved the White House and various agencies. They have taken place over months in Washington and in Abu Dhabi, the UAE capital where both William J. Burns, the CIA director, and Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo have discussed the matter with the Emiratis during different trips this year. Tarun Chhabra, the National Security Council’s senior director for technology, has also raised concerns with officials in Abu Dhabi.
This article is based on interviews with American government officials, tech analysts and American and foreign business executives, some of whom agreed to speak only on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitive diplomacy over G42.
The company is a crown jewel for the UAE, which is building an artificial intelligence industry as an alternative to oil income. The small but powerful Middle Eastern country, led by its president, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, is also cultivating closer ties to China and Russia, in part to lessen its dependence on the United States, the main military partner and arms supplier of the UAE.
As of now, it is unclear whether U.S. officials have shared their concerns over G42 with American companies that have partnerships with it.
The American efforts to scrutinize and restrict the activities of G42 are emblematic of the murky world in which U.S. spy agencies operate in their broader espionage shadow war with China. As the superpower rivalry intensifies, U.S. policymakers are relying on intelligence collection and analysis to help head off China’s efforts to make technological advances that would erode America’s military edge.
Companies in almost every sector around the globe have ties to China, the world’s second-largest economy. And the U.S. efforts to put G42 under a microscope show how difficult it is for intelligence agencies to discern whether a foreign company with commercial ties to China has links to that country’s military or its security and intelligence agencies.
In some cases, a partnership between a foreign company and a Chinese firm that is considered a favorite of the government or Communist Party — Huawei, for instance — is enough to set off alarms in Washington. Those relations are often opaque when they involve companies working in advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence that have both civilian and military uses.
In the case of G42, the CIA and other government departments have investigated the ties between G42 and Chinese companies and officials. They have flagged some specific areas of concern — pointing out, for instance, that G42’s “stack,” or its underlying technology infrastructure, has been built with the help of Chinese companies, including Huawei. Intelligence agencies have scrutinized a subsidiary of G42 called Presight AI, U.S. officials said. The company sells surveillance technology to police forces worldwide, including software nearly identical to products popular with Chinese police.
Kathleen Waters, a deputy spokesperson for the National Security Council, declined to address specific issues with G42. She called the UAE an “important partner” but said White House officials have made clear to the UAE and others the administration’s “strong concerns about the PRC seeking military and intelligence advantages through the acquisition of sensitive U.S. technologies and data, which the Biden administration is determined to protect.” (The PRC is the People’s Republic of China.)
“This will continue to be a focus of intensive engagement with the UAE and many other countries, and we welcome progress to date,” Waters added.
Yousef Al Otaiba, the UAE ambassador in Washington, declined to comment.
G42 declined a request for an interview with Xiao, its CEO, and did not answer questions about its partnerships with specific Chinese companies or about U.S. government concerns over those. In a statement to The New York Times, Talal Al Kaissi, a senior executive at the company, said the firm had worked “with various international technology players from around the world.” He noted that it began discussions with Microsoft late last year to try to replace its technology stack or infrastructure. This year, he said, it decided to look to U.S. companies, including Cerebras and Nvidia, to upgrade a supercomputer and shift from its “legacy technology supplier, which included Chinese hardware.”
The company ensures operations and licensed technologies “remain in full compliance” with U.S. government regulations and talks to U.S. agencies about staying aligned with those, he said. It is “partnering with leading companies and institutions with shared values and developing responsible AI solutions,” he added.
‘The Ultimate Question of Life’
G42’s name is drawn from “The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy,” the science-fiction series by Douglas Adams, in which the number 42 represents the answer to “the ultimate question of life, the universe and everything.” (The G stands for group.)
“Forty-two is really our mission,” Xiao said in a promotional video for the company last year. “In that amazing book, 42 was the answer to the meaning of life.”
Within that wide remit, G42 encompasses a $10 billion technology investment fund, an Arabic language AI model, a tech talent platform, a health care company, a genome-sequencing program and more. G42’s investments overseas include a $100 million purchase early this year of shares in ByteDance, the Chinese company that is the parent of TikTok, the popular social media app, according to a Bloomberg News report.
In a promotional video, Xiao said he believed that the impact of artificial intelligence on human civilization would be “much more profound than fire, electricity or even internet.”
In addition to collaborations with Chinese companies, G42 has also signed agreements with American companies including Microsoft and Dell Technologies.
Xiao has impressed some of his American partners.
“He’s a visionary,” said Andrew Feldman, the CEO of Cerebras, the Silicon Valley AI firm that is partnering with G42 on the supercomputer project. “He’s knowledgeable and thoughtful. I found somebody with a shared vision,”
Besides its work with G42, Cerebras has several U.S. government contracts, including with the Air Force Research Laboratory and the Department of Energy, according to public records and Feldman.
Feldman said he was surprised to hear about the Biden administration’s concerns about G42 and said that no American officials have raised those concerns with him or other officers at Cerebras.
OpenAI and Microsoft declined to comment, and Dell said, “We comply with global regulations and have nothing additional to add.”
Social Media and Genetic Data
Sheikh Tahnoon, the company’s sunglasses-obsessed chairperson, is one of the UAE’s most powerful men. Even in a state where senior officials often hold multiple posts, Sheikh Tahnoon, a brother of the UAE president, stands out. In addition to overseeing a secretive conglomerate called the “International Holding Company” — the country’s most valuable listed firm — Sheikh Tahnoon is also the deputy ruler of the emirate of Abu Dhabi and head of an $853 billion sovereign wealth fund. (Another family-run sovereign wealth fund, Mubadala, has a stake in G42.)
Xiao has been a part of Sheikh Tahnoon’s ventures for some time, and several of the past partnerships have set off alarms within American spy agencies.
There is very little about Xiao’s background online, which is rare for a CEO of a prominent company. His LinkedIn page and corporate profiles say he earned bachelor’s degrees at Hawaii Pacific University and a master’s degree at George Washington University in the 1990s, but there is no information on his years before college.
His LinkedIn account says he worked from 1999 to 2014 as a chief technology officer for MicroStrategy, a technology company in Virginia. He has rarely given individual interviews to journalists but has done some public talks.
Four years ago, a firm led by Xiao had a hand in the operation of a social media app, ToTok, that American intelligence agencies identified as a spy tool that the UAE government was using to track the movements and conversations of its users. Chinese engineers helped create the app.
The data harvested from the app, according to a 2019 American intelligence assessment, was stored by a UAE firm called Pax AI, which Xiao ran.
Bill Marczak of Citizen Lab, a digital watchdog group at the University of Toronto, has researched the constellation of companies controlled by Sheikh Tahnoon, and called them “master classes in blending state power and business.”
“Because ToTok worked so well, its popularity took off among Emiratis and their contacts abroad,” Marczak said. “And since the app’s encryption didn’t prevent Group 42 from accessing ToTok users’ conversations, the app could have fed a huge volume of juicy data back to UAE intelligence.”
Marczak said that G42 “seems to have absorbed assets and personnel from Chinese chat app YeeCall in order to create ToTok.” After a New York Times investigation into ToTok in 2019, company representatives denied that it had been built to be a spy tool.
At the start of the coronavirus pandemic in 2020, G42 partnered with a Chinese biotech firm, BGI Genomics, to distribute its COVID-19 tests, and the UAE government donated tens of thousands of the tests to Nevada. American officials warned Nevada officials not to distribute the tests out of concern that the operation could be a secret ploy by the Chinese government to gather genetic information about Americans from the tests, The Associated Press reported.
In March, the Biden administration put subsidiaries of BGI on a Commerce Department blacklist and said that collection and analysis of genetic data done by the companies “poses a significant risk of contributing to monitoring and surveillance by the government of China.”
In June 2020, Xiao and UAE leaders announced that G42 was partnering with Sinopharm, the Chinese drug giant, to do Phase 3 of clinical trials for a COVID-19 vaccine. That trial expanded to other nations in the region, including Bahrain, whose crown prince spoke by video with Xiao and the chairperson of Sinopharm, according to an online post by China’s embassy in Bahrain.
In March 2021, Wang Yi, China’s foreign minister, announced on a visit to the UAE that G42 and Sinopharm would produce the vaccine in Abu Dhabi.
One of Xiao’s previous ventures, Pegasus, signed an agreement in 2017 with Huawei to develop surveillance technologies for police forces. That company was owned by DarkMatter, a cyber-intelligence and hacking firm that employs former spies. It had no relation to the notorious spyware also called Pegasus that was developed by NSO Group, an Israeli firm.
Charging Into the Middle East
The Chinese government has made no secret of its intentions to expand the country’s economic and military footprint in the Middle East. The deepening ties between China and the UAE have been a cause for particular alarm for American officials.
The UAE regularly purchases billions of dollars worth of American military equipment, but the country has also shown eagerness to buy Chinese military hardware.
The Trump administration cultivated close ties to UAE leaders, but national security officials were wary of the UAE’s growing ties to China. Several officials disliked the fact that Huawei was providing main elements of the country’s technology infrastructure. That issue became more contentious after the United States agreed in 2020 to sell advanced F-35 fighter jets to the UAE as an incentive to get the country to normalize ties with Israel.
American officials try to ensure technology around those jets does not fall into the hands of adversaries. Around this time, U.S. agencies began looking more closely at Xiao and G42 because of its prominent role in technology in the UAE. G42 opened an office in Israel after normalization. (The F-35 deal ultimately did not go through.)
Early in the Biden administration, American officials confronted UAE officials with satellite images that they argued showed China was building a military base in the country. Since then, U.S. officials say, the UAE has suspended the project. UAE officials insist it was commercial port construction.
Still, CIA officials have made regular trips to Abu Dhabi to present classified information to the UAE that buttresses the Americans’ concerns about security and technology ties between China and the UAE.
In June, just days after White House officials privately raised concerns about G42 to the UAE national security chief, Xiao took the stage for a companywide town hall for G42’s fifth anniversary.
At the event, which the company called “Supercharged,” Xiao said the company was just getting started.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Government agencies; Infrastructure; Artificial intelligence; National security; Supercomputers; Military bases; Surveillance; Technology; Intelligence services

Business indexing term: Subject: Infrastructure Artificial intelligence

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates; China; United Arab Emirates

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: National Security Council; NAICS: 928110; Name: Central Intelligence Agency--CIA; NAICS: 928110, 928120

Identifier / keyword: Privacy; Nvidia Corporation; United States Politics And Government; Stocks And Bonds; Cyberwarfare And Defense; Nso Group; Energy Department; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates); Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; National Security Council; United States; Mobile Applications; Company Reports; Science Fiction; George Washington University; Cloud Computing; Linkedin Corporation; Nevada; Microstrategy Inc; Blacklisting; Israel; Beijing Bytedance Technology Co Ltd; Corporations; Elections; Presidential Election Of 2020; Wang Yi; Politics And Government; Wong, Edward; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Mazzetti, Mark; Electronic Health Records; China National Pharmaceutical Group Corp (Sinopharm); Race And Ethnicity; Classified Information And State Secrets; Satellites; Espionage And Intelligence Services; Arms Trade; Commerce Department; Europe; National Intelligence Estimates; Police; Embargoes And Sanctions; Supercomputers; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Dell Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Industrial Espionage; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Bahrain; Mortgage Backed Securities; Arabic Language; Defense And Military Forces; Bloomberg News; Clinical Trials; Group 42 (G42); Genetics And Heredity; Openai Labs; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Surveillance Of Citizens By Government; Middle East; World; Vaccination And Immunization; Otaiba, Yousef Al; International Relations; News And News Media; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Totok (Mobile App); Astrazeneca Plc; United Arab Emirates; Tiktok (Bytedance); Washington University; Corporate Social Responsibility; Civilian Casualties; Dark Matter Llc; Newspapers; Artificial Intelligence; Beijing Genomics Institute; United States International Relations; Russia; Virginia; Hawaii; Genetic Engineering; Trump, Donald J; Sovereign Wealth Funds; Sullivan, Jacob J (1976 ); Compensation For Damages (Law); Enterprise Computing; Altruism; University Of Toronto; White House Building (Washington, Dc); Air Force Research Laboratory; Colleges And Universities; Microsoft Corp; Asso ciated Press; Citizen Lab; Burns, William J; Urban Areas; New York Times; Tests (Medical); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Quantum Computing

Title: Inside U.S. Efforts to Untangle an AI Giant’s Ties to China

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 27, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-27T21:07:07Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2894071194

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-u-s-efforts-untangle-ai-giant-ties-china/docview/2894071194/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

X May Lose Up to $75 Million as Advertisers Flee: [National Desk]

Author: Ryan, Mac; Conger, Kate

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Conger, Kate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/x-may-lose-up-75-million-as-advertisers-flee/docview/2893697361/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Internal documents show companies like Airbnb, Coca-Cola and Microsoft have halted ads, or may do so, after Elon Musk's endorsement of an antisemitic conspiracy theory.
X, the social media company formerly known as Twitter, could lose as much as $ 75 million in advertising revenue by the end of the year as dozens of major brands pause their marketing campaigns after its owner, Elon Musk, endorsed an antisemitic conspiracy theory this month.
Internal documents viewed by The New York Times this week show that the company is in a more difficult position than previously known and that concerns about Mr. Musk and the platform have spread far beyond companies including IBM, Apple and Disney, which paused their advertising campaigns on X last week. The documents list more than 200 ad units of companies from the likes of Airbnb, Amazon, Coca-Cola and Microsoft, many of which have halted or are considering pausing their ads on the social network.
The documents come from X's sales team and are meant to track the impact of all the advertising lapses this month, including those by companies that have already paused and others that may be at risk of doing so. They list how much ad revenue X employees fear the company could lose through the end of the year if advertisers do not return.
On Friday, X said in a statement that $ 11 million in revenue was at risk and that the exact figure fluctuated as some advertisers returned to the platform and others increased spending. The company said the numbers viewed by The Times were either outdated or represented an internal exercise to evaluate total risk.
The advertising freezes come during the final three months of the year, which is traditionally the social media company's strongest quarter as brands run holiday promotions for events such as Black Friday and Cyber Monday. In the last three months of 2021 -- the last year the company reported fourth-quarter earnings before Mr. Musk took over -- the company recorded $ 1.57 billion in revenue, of which nearly 90 percent came from advertising.
Since Mr. Musk's $ 44 billion acquisition of Twitter last year, some brands have been hesitant to advertise on the platform, concerned with Mr. Musk's behavior and content moderation decisions, which have led to a rise in incendiary and hateful content. U.S. advertising on the platform is down nearly 60 percent this year, prompting the company to try to woo back advertisers in an effort its chief executive, Linda Yaccarino, is spearheading. X is also campaigning for advertisers to return during the holiday period to make up for revenue shortfalls earlier in the year.
The documents, however, reveal that has not been going to plan. More than 100 brands are shown as having "fully paused" their ads while dozens of others are listed as "at risk." Many paused on or after Nov. 15, when Mr. Musk wrote in a post on X that the conspiracy theory that Jews supported the immigration of minorities to replace white populations was "the actual truth."
Leesha Anderson, the vice president of digital marketing and social media at the advertising agency Outcast, said its clients steadily stopped spending on X after Mr. Musk took over and had found alternatives on platforms like LinkedIn and TikTok.
"In today's dynamic marketplace, brands have a plethora of platform choices at their disposal for precise audience targeting," she said. "Therefore, it is imperative for the stewards and proprietors of social platforms to exercise deliberate discretion in all aspects, be it their personal beliefs or political stances, as these choices will inevitably undergo public scrutiny."
The organizations that have paused their ads on X range from political campaigns to fast food chains to tech giants, according to the documents. Airbnb, for example, halted more than $ 1 million of advertising, while Uber cut back on ads worth more than $ 800,000, halting campaigns in U.S. and international markets. Both tech companies declined to comment.
Other large brands, including Jack in the Box, Coca-Cola and Netflix, paused some of their campaigns. Netflix's halted ads were worth nearly $ 3 million, according to X's estimates. Jack in the Box, Coca-Cola and Netflix did not respond to requests for comment.
Various subsidiaries of Microsoft have also stopped advertising -- leading to a potential loss of more than $ 4 million in revenue for X's fourth quarter, based on the documents -- as have Amazon's units for books and music and one subsidiary of Google. The search giant and some other brands that have paused spending, including NBC Universal, have continued to post content on the platform without paying X to ensure it reaches a broad audience.
Google and Microsoft declined to comment. Amazon did not return requests for comment.
On the NBC program "Meet the Press" last Sunday, the Republican presidential candidate Chris Christie called Mr. Musk's comment part of a recent outpouring of an "outrageous type of hate."
"Whether it's Elon Musk, whether it's professors on our college campuses or students that they are misleading, or whether it's individuals who are speaking out in an antisemitic way on the streets of our cities," he said.
Two days before Mr. Christie's appearance, a super PAC supporting him, called Tell It Like It Is, pulled its advertising from X, according to the documents. A representative for the political fund-raising group did not respond to a request for comment.
In an internal meeting with employees at X this week, Ms. Yaccarino cut a defiant mood. She made no mention of Mr. Musk's endorsement of the antisemitic post and attributed the company's problems to a report by the left-wing media watchdog group Media Matters, which showed that ads on X from companies like IBM and Apple appeared next to posts promoting white nationalist and Nazi content.
On Monday, after Mr. Musk called Media Matters "an evil organization," X sued the group and argued that its report, which was published after Mr. Musk's statement, "manipulated the algorithms governing the user experience on X to bypass safeguards and create images of X's largest advertisers' paid posts adjacent to racist, incendiary content." Ms. Yaccarino has blamed the Media Matters report for X's declining ad sales.
"Kowtowing to external criticism or pressures is simply not how X will ever operate," she wrote in an email to X employees on Wednesday that was seen by The Times. "The people at X are free speech defenders. We stand in solidarity with those who believe in this fundamental right and the critical checks and balances of a thriving democracy."
Earlier this week, Mr. Musk spent time celebrating companies that have continued to advertise on X, including the National Football League. Using a heart emoji, X's billionaire owner said he loved the N.F.L. (The New York Times largely stopped marketing on the platform in early 2023, though the company's sports publication, The Athletic, has continued to purchase ads, according to a spokesman.)
Mr. Musk also noted that the company would donate "all revenue from advertising & subscriptions associated with the war in Gaza to hospitals in Israel and the Red Cross/Crescent in Gaza." The funding will include revenue from ads bought by charity groups, news organizations and other groups that advertised content related to the conflict.
Following her boss, Ms. Yaccarino added to Mr. Musk's original post with a plea.
"Lean in and help," she wrote on X.
Tiffany Hsu contributed reporting.
Tiffany Hsu contributed reporting.
Photograph Linda Yaccarino inherited falling ad revenue as X chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROD HARRIS/GETTY IMAGES FOR VOX MEDIA) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Marketing; Employees; Social networks; Antisemitism; Advertising revenue; Conspiracy; Endorsements; Political advertising; Financial performance; Online advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Employees Social networks Advertising revenue Financial performance Online advertising

Location: New York; United States--US; Gaza Strip

People: Musk, Elon; Yaccarino, Linda

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282; Name : Twitter Inc; NAICS: 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/24/business/x-elon-musk-advertisers.html

Title: X May Lose Up to $75 Million as Advertisers Flee:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 27, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893697361

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/x-may-lose-up-75-million-as-advertisers-flee/docview/2893697361/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Allure of the Instagrammable Office: [None]

Author: Goldberg, Emma; Kodé, Anna

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma; Kodé, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/allure-instagrammable-office/docview/2893512529/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Inside the "blueberry muffin" conference room, the walls are, naturally, painted blue. Not just any blue -- it's the calming color you might find a baby's bedroom, what the paint can refers to as "sea to shining sea." Anchoring the room is a table, red and oblong, adorned with fake succulents in purple pots.
Nearby is the "fruity" conference room, with "razzle dazzle" red walls and vintage chairs upholstered in yellow pineapple printed cloth. Down the hallway is "maple waffle," the room where the company holds its more serious meetings with investors. There, the walls are a subdued shade of brown.
This is the office of the cereal brand Magic Spoon, which was introduced in 2019 and, starting last year, called its roughly 50 employees back to in-person work, at least two days a week. At Magic Spoon's SoHo space, which was designed right around the company's return-to-office push, the conference rooms are meant to feel like cereal boxes.
"One of our core company values is, 'Be a Froot Loop in a world of Cheerios,"' said Greg Sewitz, a Magic Spoon co-founder. "We wanted the office to underline that."
Their space also reflects what designers, executives and workers describe as a trend that's not entirely new, but is now becoming the go-to among certain start-ups, tech companies and other moneyed employers vying for young talent. It's what might be called the Envy Office -- what happens when companies try to combine the comforts of a living room and the glamour of a vacation. These spaces -- often characterized by colorful walls, upholstered furniture and carefully curated coffee table books -- lure workers in with plenty of opportunities to fill their social feeds with photos taken at the workplace.
"It's taking cues from home, from hospitality, from Pinterest," said Jordan Goldstein, a co-managing principal at Gensler, one of the world's largest architecture firms, where clients have lately been asking for greenery and soft seating. He cited, as an example, the new headquarters of Marriott, which Gensler redesigned to incorporate banquettes, library nooks and a tree growing through the middle of the lobby. Gensler has also recently redone offices for Barclays, Pinterest and LinkedIn in this style.
To some employees, though, all the fake plants, accent walls and stylish dog beds sometimes seem designed to mask the inconvenience of space-conserving arrangements like hot desks, where workers no longer have their own assigned work spaces.
Before the rise of remote work, the designers behind Magic Spoon's office, Laetitia Gorra, 41, and Sarah Needleman, 33, were the designers for the women's social club the Wing, a hallmark millennial-pink-drenched palace of throw pillows and color-coded bookshelves, which shut down last year. In 2020, Ms. Gorra founded the design firm Roarke, with Ms. Needleman running its operations. The duo helps executives figure out what an office should look like in a moment when many workers aren't convinced they need to go to one.
"Our pitch is very much about employee retention," Ms. Gorra said. "We came from working on our sofas in yoga pants -- what can we do to make your employees want to come back to the office?"
It's a cycle that American workers have seen before: When working norms change, the design of the office goes with them. In fact, in a survey of some 14,000 workers around the globe conducted by Gensler last year, nearly 40 percent said their employers redesigned their offices during the pandemic.
"If you're looking at the history of the office, you're looking at the history of changing attitudes toward what constitutes work, who workers should be," said Craig Robertson, a media historian and author of "The Filing Cabinet." "The design of an office is shaped by dominant social values."
As with each previous iteration of workplace aesthetics, including this latest trend, many managers are also trying to achieve a more straightforward goal: get people to spend time at the office.
Cubicle Farm to Open Table
Just over half a century ago, the shiniest new feature of office life was the cubicle.
In the years after World War II, America's white collar work force was swelling, buoyed by a booming economy and influx of women into the workplace. Management "scientists," like the efficiency-obsessed Frederick Winslow Taylor, had earlier pushed for companies to treat white-collar work more like factory work. Enter the Action Office: modular office furniture, which became cubes that packed people tightly together.
Cubicle farms, according to office historians like Nikil Saval, reminded people of their place in the power structure, with higher-ups typically allocated more space.
"You were surrounded by hundreds of people like you," said Sheila Liming, an associate professor at Champlain College and the author of the design history book "Office." "You get this idea that you're replicable."
It's hard to look at a cubicle farm and imagine it prompting the kind of out-of-the-box ideas that companies were craving in the tech world of the 1990s, after Bill Gates and Paul Allen had mythologized Microsoft's beginnings inside a garage. Tech start-ups wanted workers to break out of their sterile cubes and feel a sense of ownership over their work, a sense of infinite potential growth.
That was partially the notion that gave birth to a new phase of office design: the tech utopia. Carolyn Chen, a sociologist who spent years researching life at Bay Area tech companies, noted some of the physical elements that distinguished their campuses. There were free snacks (peanut-butter cups, potato chips, dried mango) and sometimes booze (beer, frosé). There were nap pods and massage chairs.
Ms. Chen saw one company spend part of its design budget on making the office look grungier. It paid money to expose its bricks and pipes, sending the message to workers that they should adopt a start-up mentality and work overtime.
And because the tech offices of the early 2000s were such social spaces -- with happy hours and video games -- the takeaway for some workers was that they didn't need to go home to find leisure or community.
"When you think about the way Google revolutionized the office, it was in the idea that there was a standing invitation for workers to not just do their jobs but spend their free time there as well," Ms. Liming said. "The word campus is really operative."
But if there's anything more appealing than a campus, it's working from bed. So when the pandemic arrived, and offices became literal homes as opposed to figurative ones, managers had to rethink what it meant to make the office an alluring destination.
'Live From HQ'
When Magic Spoon's team moved into the new office earlier this year, Sarah Bourlakas, 26, who was the senior social and community manager, snapped a photo to post on her personal Instagram story with the text: "Live from HQ."
That Instagrammability isn't accidental. Brooke Erin Duffy, an associate professor of communication at Cornell University, argues that employers are using social media aesthetics in the same way they're deploying traditional perks like cold brew, or less traditional ones like the Lizzo concert Google put on for its workers. It's all corporate image making. Companies now want their office design to be visible not just to employees, but also to everyone on social media, which Ms. Duffy said was about "retaining employees by hyping this fun, enjoyable, hyper-social workplace."
Hollywood and television used to be the primary sites that advertised to young people the glamour of office life, Ms. Duffy noted. There was "The Devil Wears Prada," "Mad Men," "The Internship," "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," "The Social Network."
Now social media is increasingly where people go to romanticize office life -- particularly on TikTok, where content creators like "Corporate Natalie" riff on the professional antics that many young people, starting their careers during the pandemic, have yet to experience. More than half of workers say they get a sense of identity from their jobs, according to consistent findings in Gallup polling from 1989 through 2014. It's no surprise, then, that young people would want to put on their social media profiles what's so central to their senses of self. And the more trendy an office is, the easier it feels for workers to convey that their careers are more thrilling than the cubicle doldrums chronicled in "Office Space."
When Ms. Bourlakas photographed Magic Spoon's new SoHo space, her Instagram followers seemed dazzled.
"So many people commented, like 'Oh my gosh, it's so sick,"' said Ms. Bourlakas, who recently left Magic Spoon for another job. "'It's so Magic Spoon coded."'
Dreaming of Cubicle Life
Touring some of these new Envy Offices, where workers hunch over long desks wearing noise-canceling headphones, there are gaps between what workers are getting and what they say want. They have wall decals and curated book collections. What they actually need, some say, is privacy.
A 10-minute walk away from Magic Spoon, the communications agency M&C Saatchi Sport & Entertainment has an office also redesigned by Roarke in 2021. Workers sit at long, communal wooden tables in front of exposed brick and surrounded by a jungle of artificial greenery. Atop a Keith Haring coffee table book sits a single bunch of faux grapes.
Maddy Franklin, 27, a senior art director there, said there were elements of the new office she loved, like its friendliness to dogs. But because of the hot-desk system, she has no place to store personal items.
It can also be tricky to get a spot with a monitor. When Ms. Franklin is working on a big project, to secure a highly coveted seat, "I will aim to get to the office a little earlier," she said.
Robin Clark, 58, who works as a marketing director at a health care nonprofit, longs for the days before her office transitioned to an open floor plan. When her company did a full redesign in 2018, executives tried to make the space inviting, creating lounge areas with couches in bright colors like orange, teal and lime. But the lack of barriers between desks means Ms. Clark's workday has an incessant, noisy backdrop: apples crunching, colleagues sneezing. When she started working from home, during the pandemic, she realized what she wanted was peace and quiet.
As she put it: "With cubicle walls you have at least the perception that you have some privacy."
In an ironic twist, other workers are now also finding themselves nostalgic for the age of the cubicle. Take Jerry Gulla, 56, a senior engineering manager, based in Winchester, Mass, who began his career in 1989 when cubicles were the norm. Over the years, as he worked in offices with open-floor plans and hot-desk systems, he missed being able to customize his desk -- himself, not with any help from a design firm.
Mr. Gulla is a fan of the TV show "The Expanse," and he used to have a model ship from the show in his work space. "Somebody might be walking by and see that you're a fan," he recalled. "So you kind of strike up a conversation and you meet somebody new that way."
To Mr. Gulla, the office ideal is simple: "It's just a place that's conducive to getting work done."
Photograph Top, the New York office of the cereal brand Magic Spoon, where the conference rooms are meant to feel like cereal boxes. Above, office styles over the decades, clockwise from top left: an airline reservation company in the 1980s; a software company in St. Paul, Minn., in 1999; a telemarketing call center in Montgomery, Ala., in 2020; and a real estate firm in New York in 2010. Below, employees working in living room comfort in September at the New York office of M&C Saatchi Sport & Entertainment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN ANSELM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JACQUES M. CHENET/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES; STORMI GREENER/STAR TRIBUNE, VIA GETTY IMAGES; RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES; BOB MILLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6-BU7); Top, in Magic Spoon's office, which they designed, Laetitia Gorra, left, and Sarah Needleman of the design firm Roarke. Above, a climbing wall at Google's corporate offices in Mountain View, Calif., an example of the enticing amenities that tech companies offer their employees. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN ANSELM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BROOKS KRAFT LLC/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU6, BU7.

Subject: College professors; Trends; Startups; Books; Employees; Employment; Pandemics; Social networks; Corporate headquarters; Corporate image; Design; Upholstery; Employers; Designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Employees Employment Social networks Corporate headquarters Corporate image Employers Designers

Company / organization: Name: Pinterest; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/22/business/office-design-rto.html

Title: The Allure of the Instagrammable Office:   [None ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 26, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893512529

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/allure-instagrammable-office/docview/2893512529/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 26, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global New sstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Envy Office: Can Instagrammable Design Lure Young Workers Back?

Author: Goldberg, Emma; Kodé, Anna

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma; Kodé, Anna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/envy-office-can-instagrammable-design-lure-young/docview/2893436054/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Inside the “blueberry muffin” conference room, the walls are, naturally, painted blue. Not just any blue: It’s the calming color you might find a baby’s bedroom, what the paint can refers to as “sea to shining sea.” Anchoring the room is a table, red and oblong, adorned with fake succulents in purple pots.
Nearby is the “fruity” conference room, with “razzle dazzle” red walls and vintage chairs upholstered in yellow pineapple-printed cloth. Down the hallway is “maple waffle,” the room where the company holds its more serious meetings with investors. There, the walls are a subdued shade of brown.
This is the office of the cereal brand Magic Spoon, introduced in 2019, which last year started calling its roughly 50 employees back to in-person work, at least two days a week. At Magic Spoon’s SoHo space, designed around the time of the company’s return-to-office push, the conference rooms are meant to feel like cereal boxes.
“One of our core company values is, ‘Be a Froot Loop in a world of Cheerios,’” said Greg Sewitz, a Magic Spoon co-founder. “We wanted the office to underline that.”
The space also reflects what designers, executives and workers describe as a trend that’s not entirely new but is becoming the go-to among certain startups, tech companies and other moneyed employers vying for young talent. It’s what might be called the Envy Office — what happens when companies try to combine the comforts of a living room and the glamour of a vacation. These spaces — often characterized by colorful walls, upholstered furniture and carefully curated coffee table books — lure workers with plenty of opportunities to fill their social feeds with photos taken at the workplace.
“It’s taking cues from home, from hospitality, from Pinterest,” said Jordan Goldstein, a co-managing principal at Gensler, one of the world’s largest architecture firms, where clients have lately been asking for greenery and soft seating. He cited, as an example, Marriott’s new headquarters, which Gensler redesigned to incorporate banquettes, library nooks and a tree growing through the middle of the lobby. Gensler has recently redone offices for Barclays, Pinterest and LinkedIn in this style.
To some employees, though, all the fake plants, accent walls and stylish dog beds sometimes seem designed to mask the inconvenience of space-conserving arrangements like hot desks, where workers no longer have their own assigned workspaces.
Before the rise of remote work, the designers behind Magic Spoon’s office, Laetitia Gorra, 41, and Sarah Needleman, 33, were the designers for the women’s social club the Wing, a hallmark millennial-pink-drenched palace of throw pillows and color-coded bookshelves, which shut down last year. In 2020, Gorra founded the design firm Roarke, with Needleman running its operations. The duo help executives figure out what an office should look like in a moment when many workers aren’t convinced they need to go to one.
“Our pitch is very much about employee retention,” Gorra said. “We came from working on our sofas in yoga pants; what can we do to make your employees want to come back to the office?”
It’s a cycle that American workers have seen before: When working norms change, the design of the office goes with them. In fact, in a survey of 14,000 workers around the globe conducted by Gensler last year, nearly 40% said their employers redesigned their offices during the pandemic.
“If you’re looking at the history of the office, you’re looking at the history of changing attitudes toward what constitutes work, who workers should be,” said Craig Robertson, a media historian and the author of “The Filing Cabinet.” “The design of an office is shaped by dominant social values.”
As with each previous iteration of workplace aesthetics, including this latest trend, many managers are also trying to achieve a more straightforward goal: Get people to spend time at the office.
Cubicle Farms, Open Tables
Just over half a century ago, the shiniest new feature of office life was the cubicle.
In the years after World War II, America’s white-collar workforce was swelling, buoyed by a booming economy and an influx of women into the workplace. Management “scientists,” like efficiency-obsessed Frederick Winslow Taylor, had earlier pushed for companies to treat white-collar work more like factory work. Enter the Action Office: modular office furniture, which became cubes that packed people tightly together.
Cubicle farms, according to office historians like Nikil Saval, reminded people of their place in the power structure, with higher-ups typically allocated more space.
“You were surrounded by hundreds of people like you,” said Sheila Liming, an associate professor at Champlain College and the author of the design history book “Office.” “You get this idea that you’re replicable.”
It’s hard to look at a cubicle farm and imagine it prompting the kind of out-of-the-box ideas that companies were craving in the tech world of the 1990s, after Bill Gates and Paul Allen had mythologized Microsoft’s beginnings inside a garage. Tech startups wanted workers to break out of their sterile cubes and feel a sense of ownership over their work, a sense of infinite potential growth.
That was partly the notion that gave birth to a new phase of office design: the tech utopia. Carolyn Chen, a sociologist who spent years researching life at Bay Area tech companies, noted some of the physical elements that distinguished their campuses. There were free snacks (peanut butter cups, potato chips, dried mango) and sometimes booze (beer, frosé). There were nap pods and massage chairs.
Chen saw one company spend part of its design budget on making the office look grungier. It paid money to expose its bricks and pipes, sending the message to workers that they should adopt a startup mentality and work overtime.
And because the tech offices of the early 2000s were such social spaces — with happy hours and video games — the lesson for some workers was that they didn’t need to go home to find leisure or community.
“When you think about the way Google revolutionized the office, it was in the idea that there was a standing invitation for workers to not just do their jobs but spend their free time there as well,” Liming said. “The word ‘campus’ is really operative.”
But if there’s anything more appealing than a campus, it’s working from bed. So when the pandemic arrived, and offices became literal homes as opposed to figurative ones, managers had to rethink what it meant to make the office an alluring destination.
Social Media Aesthetics
When Magic Spoon’s team moved into the new office earlier this year, Sarah Bourlakas, 26, who was the senior social and community manager, snapped a photo to post on her personal Instagram story with the text “Live from HQ.”
That Instagrammability isn’t accidental. Brooke Erin Duffy, an associate professor of communication at Cornell University, argues that employers are using social media aesthetics in the same way they’re deploying traditional perks like cold brew, or less traditional ones like the Lizzo concert Google put on for its workers. It’s all corporate image making. Companies now want their office design to be visible not just to employees but also to everyone on social media, which Duffy said was about “retaining employees by hyping this fun, enjoyable, hypersocial workplace.”
Hollywood and television used to be the primary sites that advertised to young people the glamour of office life, Duffy noted. There was “The Devil Wears Prada,” “Mad Men,” “The Internship,” “The Mary Tyler Moore Show” and “The Social Network.”
Now social media is increasingly where people go to romanticize office life — particularly on TikTok, where content creators like “Corporate Natalie” riff on the professional antics that many young people, starting their careers during the pandemic, have yet to experience. More than half of workers said they got a sense of identity from their jobs, according to consistent findings in Gallup polling from 1989 through 2014. It’s no surprise, then, that young people would want to put on their social media profiles what’s so central to their sense of self. And the more trendy an office is, the easier it feels for workers to convey that their careers are more thrilling than the cubicle doldrums chronicled in “Office Space.”
When Bourlakas photographed Magic Spoon’s new SoHo space, her Instagram followers seemed dazzled.
“So many people commented, like ‘Oh, my gosh, it’s so sick,’” said Bourlakas, who recently left Magic Spoon for another job. “‘It’s so Magic Spoon-coded.’”
Touring some of these new Envy Offices, where workers hunch over long desks wearing noise-canceling headphones, there are gaps between what workers are getting and what they say they want. They have wall decals and curated book collections. What they actually need, some say, is privacy.
Crunching and Sneezing
A 10-minute walk away from Magic Spoon, the communications agency M&C Saatchi Sport & Entertainment has an office also redesigned by Roarke in 2021. Workers sit at long, communal wooden tables in front of exposed brick and surrounded by a jungle of artificial greenery. Atop a Keith Haring coffee table book sits a single bunch of faux grapes.
Maddy Franklin, 27, a senior art director there, said there were elements of the new office she loved, like its friendliness to dogs. But because of the hot-desk system, she has no place to store personal items.
It can also be tricky to get a spot with a monitor. When Franklin is working on a big project, to secure a highly coveted seat, “I will aim to get to the office a little earlier,” she said.
Robin Clark, 58, who works as a marketing director at a health care nonprofit, longs for the days before her office transitioned to an open floor plan. When her company did a full redesign in 2018, executives tried to make the space inviting, creating lounge areas with couches in bright colors like orange, teal and lime. But the lack of barriers between desks means Clark’s workday has an incessant, noisy backdrop: apples crunching, colleagues sneezing. When she started working from home during the pandemic, she realized what she wanted was peace and quiet.
As she put it, “With cubicle walls, you have at least the perception that you have some privacy.”
Other workers are also finding themselves nostalgic for the age of the cubicle. Take Jerry Gulla, 56, a senior engineering manager, based in Winchester, Massachusetts, who began his career in 1989 when cubicles were the norm. Over the years, as he worked in offices with open floor plans and hot-desk systems, he missed being able to customize his desk — himself, not with any help from a design firm.
Gulla is a fan of the science-fiction TV series “The Expanse,” and he used to have a model ship from the show in his workspace. “Somebody might be walking by and see that you’re a fan,” he recalled. “So you kind of strike up a conversation, and you meet somebody new that way.”
To Gulla, the office ideal is simple: “It’s just a place that’s conducive to getting work done.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Conferences (Gatherings); Social Networks; Young Adults; Aesthetics; Power Structure; Labor Turnover; Employers; Social Media; Video Games

Subject: College professors; Trends; Startups; Books; Employees; Employment; Pandemics; Social networks; Corporate headquarters; Corporate image; Design; Upholstery; Employers; Designers

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Employees Employment Social networks Corporate headquarters Corporate image Employers Designers

Company / organization: Name: Pinterest; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Agriculture And Farming; Headphones And Headsets; Brick And Tile; Gensler, M Arthur Jr, & Associates; Computer And Video Games; Atlantic 10 Conference; Massachusetts; Coffee; Shortages; Millennial Generation; Linkedin Corporation; Interior Design And Furnishings; Relocation Of Business; Careers And Professions; Youth; Furniture; Coaches And Managers; Lizzo (1988 ); Design; Barclays Plc; Haring, Keith; Telecommuting; Gates, Bill; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Google Inc; Exercise; Instagram Inc; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Wages And Salaries; Fruit; Executives And Management (Theory); Advertising And Marketing; Forgery; Computers And The Internet; Champlain College; Pinterest; Duffy; Workplace Environment; M & C Saatchi Plc; Tiktok (Bytedance); Polls And Public Opinion; The Mary Tyler Moore Show (Tv Program); Collectors And Collections; Pop And Rock Music; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Libraries And Librarians; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Cornell University; Television; Soho (Manhattan, Ny); Paid Time Off; Enterprise Computing; Winchester (Mass); Bars And Nightclubs; Business; Noise; Colleges And Universities; Microsoft Corp; Start Ups; Gensler (Architecture Firm); Tables; Saval, Nikil; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological

Title: The Envy Office: Can Instagrammable Design Lure Young Workers Back?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 25, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-25T13:21:28Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2893436054

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/envy-office-can-instagrammable-design-lure-young/docview/2893436054/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 25, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

OpenAI Faced Bitter Divide Before Firing: [National Desk]

Author: Metz, Cade; Mickle, Tripp; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Metz, Cade; Mickle, Tripp; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/openai-faced-bitter-divide-before-firing/docview/2892173618/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sam Altman attacked a member over a research paper that discussed the company, while directors disagreed about who should fill board vacancies open for months.
Before Sam Altman was ousted from OpenAI last week, he and the company's board of directors had been bickering for more than a year. The tension got worse as OpenAI became a mainstream name thanks to its popular ChatGPT chatbot.
Mr. Altman, the chief executive, recently made a move to push out one of the board's members because he thought a research paper she had co-written was critical of the company.
Another member, Ilya Sutskever, who is also OpenAI's chief scientist, thought Mr. Altman was not always being honest when talking with the board. And board members worried that Mr. Altman was too focused on expansion while they wanted to balance that growth with A.I. safety.
The news that he was being pushed out came in a videoconference on Friday afternoon, when Mr. Sutskever, who had worked closely with Mr. Altman at OpenAI for eight years, read to him a statement from the board. Though the decision stunned OpenAI's employees, exposing its board members to tough questions about their qualifications to manage such a high-profile company, it was the culmination of long-simmering boardroom tension.
The rift also showed how building new A.I. systems is testing whether businesspeople who want to make money from artificial intelligence can work in sync with researchers who worry that what they are building could eventually eliminate jobs or become a threat to humanity if things like autonomous weapons grow out of control.
OpenAI was started in 2015 with an ambitious plan to one day create a superintelligent automated system that can do everything a human brain can do. But friction has long plagued the OpenAI board, which hasn't even been able to agree on replacements for members who have stepped down.
Now the company's continued existence is in doubt, largely because of that dysfunction. Nearly all of OpenAI's 800 employees have threatened to follow Mr. Altman to Microsoft, which asked him to lead an A.I. lab with Greg Brockman, who quit his roles as OpenAI's president and board chairman in solidarity with Mr. Altman.
The board had told Mr. Brockman that he would no longer be OpenAI's chairman but invited him to stay on at the company -- though he was not invited to the meeting where the decision was made to push him off the board and Mr. Altman out of the company.
The board has not said what it thought Mr. Altman was not being honest about.
There were indications that the board was still open to his return, as it and Mr. Altman held discussions that extended into Tuesday, two people familiar with the talks said. But there was a sticking point: Mr. Altman rejected some of the guardrails that had been proposed to improve his communication with the board. It was not clear what exactly those guardrails would be.
Mr. Sutskever did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.
OpenAI's board troubles can be traced to the start-up's nonprofit beginnings. In 2015, Mr. Altman teamed with Elon Musk and others, including Mr. Sutskever, to create a nonprofit to build A.I. that was safe and beneficial to humanity. They planned to raise money from private donors for their mission. But within a few years, they realized that their computing needs required much more funding than they could raise from individuals.
After Mr. Musk left in 2018, they created a for-profit subsidiary that began raising billions of dollars from investors, including $ 1 billion from Microsoft. They said that the subsidiary would be controlled by the nonprofit board and that each director's fiduciary duty would be to "humanity, not OpenAI investors," OpenAI said on its website.
After Mr. Altman was forced out and Mr. Brockman left, the four remaining board members are Mr. Sutskever; Adam D'Angelo, the chief executive of Quora, the question-and-answer site; Helen Toner, a director of strategy at Georgetown University's Center for Security and Emerging Technology; and Tasha McCauley, an entrepreneur and computer scientist.
A few weeks before Mr. Altman's ouster, he met with Ms. Toner to discuss a paper she had recently co-written for Georgetown University's Center for Security and Emerging Technology.
Mr. Altman complained that the research paper seemed to criticize OpenAI's efforts to keep its A.I. technologies safe while praising the approach taken by Anthropic, according to an email that Mr. Altman wrote to colleagues and that was viewed by The New York Times.
In the email, Mr. Altman said that he had reprimanded Ms. Toner for the paper and that it was dangerous to the company, particularly at a time, he added, when the Federal Trade Commission was investigating OpenAI over the data used to build its technology.
Ms. Toner defended it as an academic paper that analyzed the challenges that the public faces when trying to understand the intentions of the countries and companies developing A.I. But Mr. Altman disagreed.
"I did not feel we're on the same page on the damage of all this," he wrote in the email. "Any amount of criticism from a board member carries a lot of weight."
Senior OpenAI leaders, including Mr. Sutskever, who is deeply concerned that A.I. could one day destroy humanity, later discussed whether Ms. Toner should be removed, a person involved in the conversations said.
But shortly after those discussions, Mr. Sutskever did the unexpected: He sided with board members to oust Mr. Altman, according to two people familiar with the board's deliberations. He read to Mr. Altman the board's public statement explaining that Mr. Altman was fired because he wasn't "consistently candid in his communications with the board."
Mr. Sutskever's frustration with Mr. Altman echoed what had happened in 2021 when another senior A.I. scientist left OpenAI to form the company Anthropic. That scientist and other researchers went to the board to try to push Mr. Altman out. After they failed, they gave up and departed, according to three people familiar with the attempt to push Mr. Altman out.
"After a series of reasonably amicable negotiations, the co-founders of Anthropic were able to negotiate their exit on mutually agreeable terms," an Anthropic spokeswoman, Sally Aldous, said. In a second statement, Anthropic added that there was "no attempt to 'oust' Sam Altman at the time the founders of Anthropic left OpenAI."
Vacancies exacerbated the board's issues. This year, it disagreed over how to replace three departing directors: Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn founder and a Microsoft board member; Shivon Zilis, director of operations at Neuralink, a company started by Mr. Musk to implant computer chips in people's brains; and Will Hurd, a former Republican congressman from Texas.
After vetting four candidates for one position, the remaining directors couldn't agree on who should fill it, said the two people familiar with the board's deliberations. The stalemate hardened the divide between Mr. Altman and Mr. Brockman and other board members.
Hours after Mr. Altman was ousted, OpenAI executives confronted the remaining board members during a video call, according to three people who were on the call.
During the call, Jason Kwon, OpenAI's chief strategy officer, said the board was endangering the future of the company by pushing out Mr. Altman. This, he said, violated the members' responsibilities.
Ms. Toner disagreed. The board's mission is to ensure that the company creates artificial intelligence that "benefits all of humanity," and if the company was destroyed, she said, that could be consistent with its mission. In the board's view, OpenAI would be stronger without Mr. Altman.
On Sunday, Mr. Sutskever was urged at OpenAI's office to reverse course by Mr. Brockman's wife, Anna, according to two people familiar with the exchange. Hours later, he signed a letter with other employees that demanded the independent directors resign. The confrontation between Mr. Sutskever and Ms. Brockman was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.
At 5:15 a.m. on Monday, he posted on X, formerly Twitter, that "I deeply regret my participation in the board's actions."
Photograph Sam Altman was blindsided by the decision of OpenAI's board of directors to fire him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES); Helen Toner, an OpenAI board member, defended the research paper she co-wrote. (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Chairman of the board; Artificial intelligence; Employees; Boards of directors; Chief executive officers

Business indexing term: Subject: Chairman of the board Artificial intelligence Employees Boards of directors Chief executive officers

People: Altman, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Georgetown University; NAICS: 611310; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/21/technology/openai-altman-board-fight.html

Title: OpenAI Faced Bitter Divide Before Firing:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 22, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2892173618

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/openai-faced-bitter-divide-before-firing/docview/2892173618/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Scrutinizing Adams Aide and Ex-Turkish Airlines Official in Campaign Inquiry: [National Desk]

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Rothfeld, Michael; Rubinstein, Dana; Hong, Nicole

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K; Rothfeld, Michael; Rubinstein, Dana; Hong, Nicole. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-scrutinizing-adams-aide-ex-turkish-airlines/docview/2891090945/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On the same day the federal authorities raided the home of Mayor Eric Adams's chief fund-raiser, they also searched the residences of two people with ties to Turkey.
As F.B.I. agents searched the home of Mayor Eric Adams's chief fund-raiser earlier this month for evidence his campaign conspired with Turkey, separate teams executed warrants at the residences of two others with ties to the mayor and that country, several people with knowledge of the matter said.
In addition to the home of the fund-raiser, Brianna Suggs, investigators also searched the New Jersey houses of Rana Abbasova, an aide in Mr. Adams's international affairs office, four of the people said, and Cenk Öcal, a former Turkish Airlines executive who served on his transition team, two people said.
The coordinated raids were the first public sign of a broad corruption investigation into the mayor's 2021 campaign. As part of the inquiry, the F.B.I. and federal prosecutors in Manhattan are examining whether the Turkish government conspired with Mr. Adams's campaign to funnel foreign donations into campaign coffers and whether Mr. Adams pressured Fire Department officials to sign off on a new high-rise Turkish consulate despite safety concerns.
Both Ms. Abbasova and Mr. Öcal have ties to Turkey. She was Mr. Adams's longtime liaison to the Turkish community when he served as Brooklyn borough president; he was the general manager of the New York office of Turkish Airlines until early last year. Ms. Abbasova, Mr. Öcal, Ms. Suggs and Mr. Adams have not been accused of wrongdoing.
The searches began early on the morning of Nov. 2, when a team of F.B.I. agents descended on the brick Fort Lee, N.J., townhouse of Ms. Abbasova, 41, who serves as the director of protocol in the Mayor's Office for International Affairs. It was not clear what, if anything, they took from the home.
A separate team of agents visited the New Jersey home of Mr. Öcal, a former flight attendant who, according to his LinkedIn page, rose to become a Turkish Airlines general manager, first in Sofia, Bulgaria, and then in New York. Mr. Öcal, according to a Turkish news report, was fired from the airline in early 2022 during a shake-up at the company.
Ms. Abbasova and Mr. Öcal did not respond to messages seeking comment, and it could not immediately be determined whether they had hired lawyers.
Evan Thies, a spokesman for Mr. Adams's campaign, said, "Ms. Abbasova was not employed by or paid by the campaign."
Fabien Levy, a spokesman for City Hall, said in a statement that the mayor was cooperating with investigators. Mr. Adams has denied any wrongdoing and, through his attorney Boyd Johnson, noted that the campaign had proactively reported an unidentified individual to federal investigators for recently acting "improperly."
On Thursday, two people briefed on the matter confirmed earlier reporting in The New York Post that the individual was Ms. Abbasova. Mr. Thies declined to elaborate on the conduct in question.
Representatives for the F.B.I. and the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York declined to comment.
The raids occurred on the same morning that agents searched Ms. Suggs's Brooklyn home and left with three iPhones, two laptop computers and other evidence, records show.
The searches came as federal officials were examining potential malfeasance in Mr. Adams's 2021 campaign, an inquiry so far-reaching that, last Monday, agents approached Mr. Adams on the street outside of an event in Manhattan, asked his security detail to step aside, and climbed into his car alongside him. Pursuant to a court-authorized warrant, they seized his electronic devices.
Less than three weeks ago, Ms. Abbasova, who earns $ 81,000 in her current post, stood just behind Mr. Adams's right shoulder during a flag-raising ceremony at Bowling Green to mark the 100th anniversary of the Turkish republic. The Turkish consul general and U.S. ambassador were in attendance as Mr. Adams spoke of his affection for the country.
"I'm probably the only mayor in the history of this city that has not only visited Turkey -- Türkiye -- once, but I think I'm on my sixth or seventh visit to Türkiye," Mr. Adams said.
In a 2017 interview with a pro-government Turkish news outlet, Mr. Adams said he preferred to fly Turkish Airlines on international trips, in part because the airline accommodated his dietary needs as a vegan. "Turkish Airlines is my way of flying," he told the newspaper.
At the flag raising, Ms. Abbasova handed a folder containing an honorary citation to the mayor, who awarded it to a local Turkish community member. Then she distributed small red Turkish flags to some children.
She began working for Mr. Adams as a volunteer in his first term as borough president, as he tried to make inroads to the Turkish and Azerbaijani communities in Brooklyn. She was given an office to use at Borough Hall, a former aide said.
She has been on his government staff since at least 2018, when city records indicate she joined the borough president's office as a "community coordinator," earning $ 50,000 a year. Her title in 2021 was "assistant to the compliance unit," according to a list provided to Mr. Adams's successor as borough president, Antonio Reynoso, Kristina Naplatarski, a spokeswoman for Mr. Reynoso, said.
While there, Ms. Abbasova managed relationships between Mr. Adams and "stakeholders" from the Middle East and Central Asia, "organized Turkic heritage events," "assisted with sister cities agreements," and "worked with embassies and consulates to build relationships," according to her profile on the website of the Mayor's Office for International Affairs.
In 2015, several years before she officially joined his staff, Ms. Abbasova traveled to Turkey with Mr. Adams on a trip sponsored by the Turkish consulate and the World Tourism Forum Institute, an organization whose mission is to boost global tourism.
The current borough president's office does not have a position like the one held by Ms. Abbasova, according to Ms. Naplatarski.
"We do not," she said, "nor have we ever under this administration."
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Photograph F.B.I. agents searched at least three homes of people tied to Mayor Eric Adams in connection with a broad corruption inquiry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Presidents; Investigations; Tourism; Diplomatic & consular services; Airlines

Business indexing term: Subject: Airlines

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US; New Jersey

Company / organization: Name: Turkish Airlines; NAICS: 481111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/16/nyregion/nyc-adams-turkey-raid-aide.html

Title: U.S. Scrutinizing Adams Aide and Ex-Turkish Airlines Official in Campaign Inquiry:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891090945

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-scrutinizing-adams-aide-ex-turkish-airlines/docview/2891090945/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

FBI Raided Homes of Second Adams Aide and Ex-Turkish Airline Official

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Rothfeld, Michael; Rubinstein, Dana; Hong, Nicole

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K; Rothfeld, Michael; Rubinstein, Dana; Hong, Nicole. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fbi-raided-homes-second-adams-aide-ex-turkish/docview/2891013995/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — As FBI agents searched the home of New York Mayor Eric Adams’ chief fundraiser this month for evidence that his campaign conspired with Turkey, separate teams executed warrants at the residences of two others with ties to the mayor and that country, several people with knowledge of the matter said.
In addition to the home of the fundraiser, Brianna Suggs, investigators also searched the New Jersey houses of Rana Abbasova, an aide in Adams’ international affairs office, four of the people said, and Cenk Öcal, a former Turkish Airlines executive who served on his transition team, two people said.
The coordinated raids were the first public sign of a broad corruption investigation into the mayor’s 2021 campaign. As part of the inquiry, the FBI and federal prosecutors in Manhattan are examining whether the Turkish government conspired with Adams’ campaign to funnel foreign donations into campaign coffers and whether Adams pressured Fire Department officials to sign off on a new high-rise Turkish consulate despite safety concerns.
Abbasova and Öcal have ties to Turkey. Abbasova was Adams’ longtime liaison to the Turkish community when he served as Brooklyn borough president; Öcal was the general manager of the New York office of Turkish Airlines until early last year. Abbasova, Öcal, Suggs and Adams have not been accused of wrongdoing.
The searches began early Nov. 2, when a team of FBI agents descended on the brick Fort Lee, New Jersey, town house of Abbasova, 41, who serves as the director of protocol in the Mayor’s Office for International Affairs. It was not clear what, if anything, they took from the home.
A separate team of agents visited the New Jersey home of Öcal, a former flight attendant who, according to his LinkedIn page, rose to become a Turkish Airlines general manager, first in Sofia, Bulgaria, and then in New York. Öcal, according to a Turkish news report, was fired from the airline in early 2022 during a shake-up at the company.
Abbasova and Öcal did not respond to messages seeking comment, and it could not immediately be determined whether they had hired lawyers.
Evan Thies, a spokesperson for Adams’ campaign, said, “Ms. Abbasova was not employed by or paid by the campaign.”
Fabien Levy, a spokesperson for City Hall, said in a statement that the mayor was cooperating with investigators. Adams has denied any wrongdoing and, through his attorney Boyd Johnson, noted that the campaign had proactively reported an unidentified individual to federal investigators for recently acting “improperly.”
On Thursday, two people briefed on the matter confirmed earlier reporting in the New York Post that the individual was Abbasova. Thies declined to elaborate on the conduct in question.
Representatives for the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York declined to comment.
The raids occurred on the same morning that agents searched Suggs’ Brooklyn home and left with three iPhones, two laptop computers and other evidence, records show.
The searches came as federal officials were examining potential malfeasance in Adams’ 2021 campaign, an inquiry so far-reaching that agents on Nov. 6 approached Adams on the street outside of an event in Manhattan, asked his security detail to step aside, and climbed into his car alongside him. Pursuant to a court-authorized warrant, they seized his electronic devices.
Less than three weeks ago, Abbasova, who earns $81,000 in her current post, stood just behind Adams’ right shoulder during a flag-raising ceremony at Bowling Green to mark the 100th anniversary of the Turkish republic. The Turkish consul general and U.S. ambassador were in attendance as Adams spoke of his affection for the country.
“I‘m probably the only mayor in the history of this city that has not only visited Turkey — Türkiye — once, but I think I’m on my sixth or seventh visit to Türkiye,” Adams said.
In a 2017 interview with a pro-government Turkish news outlet, Adams said he preferred to fly Turkish Airlines on international trips, in part because the airline accommodated his dietary needs as a vegan. “Turkish Airlines is my way of flying,” he told the newspaper.
At the flag raising, Abbasova handed a folder containing an honorary citation to Adams, who awarded it to a local Turkish community member. Then she distributed small red Turkish flags to some children.
She began working for Adams as a volunteer in his first term as borough president, as he tried to make inroads to the Turkish and Azerbaijani communities in Brooklyn. She was given an office to use at Borough Hall, a former aide said.
She has been on his government staff since at least 2018, when city records indicate she joined the borough president’s office as a “community coordinator,” earning $50,000 a year. Her title in 2021 was “assistant to the compliance unit,” according to a list provided to Adams’ successor as borough president, Antonio Reynoso, said Kristina Naplatarski, a spokesperson for Reynoso.
While there, Abbasova managed relationships between Adams and “stakeholders” from the Middle East and Central Asia, “organized Turkic heritage events,” “assisted with sister cities agreements” and “worked with embassies and consulates to build relationships,” according to her profile on the website of the Mayor’s Office for International Affairs.
In 2015, several years before she officially joined his staff, Abbasova traveled to Turkey with Adams on a trip sponsored by the Turkish consulate and the World Tourism Forum Institute, an organization whose mission is to boost global tourism.
The current borough president’s office does not have a position like the one held by Abbasova, according to Naplatarski.
“We do not,” she said, “nor have we ever under this administration.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Presidents; Investigations; Tourism; Diplomatic & consular services; Airlines

Business indexing term: Subject: Airlines

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US; New Jersey

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Turkish Airlines; NAICS: 481111; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Elections; Politics And Government; Bulgar ia; Brooklyn (Nyc); Turkey; United States Attorneys; Uniforms; Suggs, Brianna; Campaign Finance; Ethics And Official Misconduct; New York City; Levy, Fabien; Linkedin Corporation; Elections, Mayors; Fire Department (Nyc); Fort Lee (Nj); Middle East; State Legislatures; Local Government; International Relations; New Jersey; Corruption (Institutional); Workplace Environment; Turkish Americans; Adams, Eric L; New York State; Fires And Firefighters; Diplomatic Service, Embassies And Consulates; United States Inte rnational Relations; Rashbaum, William K; New York Post; Airlines And Airplanes; Turkish Airlines

Title: FBI Raided Homes of Second Adams Aide and Ex-Turkish Airline Official

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 18, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-18T00:07:33Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891013995

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fbi-raided-homes-second-adams-aide-ex-turkish/docview/2891013995/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 18, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Voters and Bidenomics Speak Different Languages: [Op-Ed]

Author: Coy, Peter

Publication info: Coy, Peter. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/voters-bidenomics-speak-different-languages/docview/2889143310/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Economists, meet Sara. She is in her early 50s, white, an office manager who lives in South Carolina and a Republican who is unenthusiastic about Donald Trump. When she thinks about the direction of the country right now, what she's most worried about is the economy. And whom does she blame for the economy?
Politicians in Washington, D.C., collectively. They have lost sight of how we live and work as middle-class people. We can give free Narcan to whoever we want to in the parking lot of McDonald's because they're OD'ing, but we cannot get diabetic medication to those kids who did not choose to be diabetic. People are losing their jobs and can't afford health care, and you're going to legislate whether or not somebody can read a book?
There is a lot to unpack in that angry paragraph, which came from a focus group, convened in September by Times Opinion, of 13 Republican voters who are looking at candidates other than Trump. (More of their responses here.) On diabetic medication, for example, there's actually good news. The Inflation Reduction Act capped the cost of insulin for Medicare recipients at $ 35 a month. Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Sanofi have cut prices for patients of all ages.
But the part I want to focus on is what Sara and other Americans who aren't economists mean when they use terms like economy, inflation and unemployment.
It's often not what economists mean. And I think the differences in perspective go a long way toward explaining why President Biden receives such poor marks on the economy despite strong growth in the country's gross domestic product, as well as low unemployment and falling inflation.
Ask a macroeconomist how the economy is doing and you might get a number, such as 4.9, which is the percentage increase in G.D.P. between the second quarter and third quarter, formulated as an annual rate. Ask Sara and you hear about politicians, Narcan, diabetes medication and book banning.
And Sara isn't wrong! Bloodless as it is today, the word "economy" once had a moral valence. The ancient Greek word "oikonomia" means "the management of a household," which was considered a deeply moral activity. "In ancient economic theory, an action is considered economically rational only when taken toward a praiseworthy end," Dotan Leshem of the University of Haifa wrote in 2016 in the Journal of Economic Perspectives.
Or take inflation. To an economist, it's a change in the general price level. If prices rise rapidly and then plateau for a few months, an economist will say monthly inflation is zero. To the general public, that's still inflation, because prices are high. A shopper might not be happy until prices go all the way back to where they were -- which to many economists seems like a scary thing to wish for, because deflation tends to go along with depressions.
And unemployment? To an economist, it's the familiar rate that the Bureau of Labor Statistics refers to as "U-3": an objective measure consisting of the number of people who are out of work but actively searching divided by all those in the labor force. The U-3 was just 3.9 percent in October, which is lower than the rate Federal Reserve policymakers see as sustainable in the long run. Yet 57 percent of people surveyed in an ABC News/Washington Post poll in September said that the unemployment rate was not so good or poor.
Pollsters have long observed that voters who are unhappy in general will tend to express unhappiness in every answer, and not attempt to make fine distinctions. "People will default to the most pessimistic view: Sure, I can find a job, but it doesn't pay a damn thing," Michael Murphy, a Republican strategist in the Never Trump camp, told me.
Which brings us to a bar chart I made based on data from the New York Times/Siena College polls of voters in battleground states. The polls, which alarmed many Democrats, showed Trump with leads in five of six important battleground states that Biden won in 2020. Biden has been campaigning on his economic record -- job creation, infrastructure investment and so on -- but the polls show that voters trust Trump more than Biden on the economy.
"Whether they're right or they're wrong, the perception is that the economy is doing very poorly," Don Levy, director of the Siena College Research Institute, told me.
The low mark that Biden gets from white people with no college education is consistent with what I wrote about in Monday's newsletter: Less educated voters have turned away from the Democratic Party en masse. Ironically for Biden, he seems to be getting dinged for a New Democrat strategy of "compensating losers" that he himself doesn't buy into. (Biden does pretty well with nonwhites who have no college education, perhaps because they feel their nonwhite identity more strongly than their no-college identity.)
Trump may also be benefiting from rose-colored hindsight. More voters have a favorable impression of Trump's overall record now (48 percent) than they did when he left office (38 percent), according to the ABC News/Washington Post poll.
I asked Representative Ro Khanna, a progressive Democrat from California who represents Silicon Valley, about the Times/Siena poll results. He said he thought Trump beat Biden on the economy in voters' minds because "Trump, as hollow as he is, without a single idea, positioned himself as this outlaw, questioner of institutions, challenger of the status quo. He has that brand that appeals to people's grievance."
A Blueprint/YouGov poll conducted around the same time as the Times/Siena polls has more bad news for the Democrats. (Blueprint is a new project of Reid Hoffman, a co-founder of LinkedIn.) The poll results, first reported by Semafor, found that voters care most about inflation and least about jobs, yet believe that the Democrats are focused least on inflation and most on jobs.
As for the decline in inflation that Biden brags about: Only 38 percent said they believed the official statistics, against 62 percent who didn't.
That disbelief says a lot. I don't think it's entirely a measure of distrust in the statistical agencies. I think it's deeper than that. People are saying that, for whatever reason, prices went up. And they're saying they can't make ends meet. Anyone who tries to tell them that inflation has fallen is going to be ignored, or worse. Which means the incumbent president is in a bad spot.
Elsewhere: China Loses U.S. Market Share
China's share of goods imported by the United States fell to 16.5 percent last year from 21.6 percent in 2017, while Vietnam had the biggest percentage-point gain over the period, according to United Nations Comtrade data analyzed by Laura Alfaro of Harvard Business School and Davin Chor of Dartmouth College's Tuck School of Business. However, China has stepped up trade with and investment in Vietnam as well as Mexico, a major source of U.S. imports, they note, adding, "This means that the U.S. could well remain indirectly connected to China."
Quote of the Day
"The banking sector has stabilized since the period of acute stress earlier this year, and the system as a whole has ample capital and liquidity to withstand shocks. I continue to monitor the system for signs of renewed stresses."
-- Lisa Cook, a governor of the Federal Reserve (Nov. 6, 2023)
This article appeared in print on page A19.

ERIC Subject: Focus Groups; Business Schools; Unemployment; Censorship; Diabetes

Subject: Higher education; Polls & surveys; Diabetes; Economic conditions; Employment; Political campaigns; Prices; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Inflation; Unemployment; Economists; Voters

Business indexing term: Subject: Economic conditions Employment Gross Domestic Product--GDP Inflation Unemployment Economists

Location: United States--US; Vietnam; China

Company / organization: Name: Siena College; NAICS: 611310; Name: ABC Inc; NAICS: 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/08/opinion/economy-joe-biden-inflation.html

Title: Voters and Bidenomics Speak Different Languages:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 13, 2023

column: Peter Coy

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2889143310

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/voters-bidenomics-speak-different-languages/docview/2889143310/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Teleprompter! Makeup! Gavel!: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Vogel, Carol

Publication info: Vogel, Carol. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teleprompter-makeup-gavel/docview/2886491767/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Teleprompter! Makeup! Auction houses no longer play exclusively to the art world as viewers flock to YouTube, Instagram and TikTok to see how the one percent spends.
As Sotheby's and Christie's prepare for the start this week of the major New York auctions of Impressionist, modern and contemporary art -- at which a 1932 Picasso is expected to bring in more than $ 120 million -- teams of tech experts, producers and show directors are readying their salesrooms as if they were CNN Central.
They have made more space for roving video cameras, LED screens and expert lighting by shrinking their once-valued seating for collectors and dealers by some 30 percent. Just like a television station, both auction houses have added control rooms filled with producers and directors who watch every camera angle and monitor where the action is in the salesroom. Their attention is not only on auctioneers but on the banks of telephone bid-takers who drive the nightly drama, advising their clients from London to Hong Kong to Doha when competing bids are received. These livestream feeds can "capture the energy of the moment," Gillian Gorman Round, Christie's chief marketing officer, promised.
But the massive preparation is not for the benefit of the art world and its V.I.P. clients: Auction houses are now playing to millions of viewers from all over the world, who stream the action live on social media sites including YouTube, TikTok, Facebook and Instagram Live, as well as their own websites -- riveted by how the one percent spends its money.
What began as a way of doing business during the pandemic has become the new voyeuristic evening entertainment during the big May and November sales. "Twenty years ago, people thought you had to be the member of an elite club to walk through an auction house door," recalled Adrien Meyer, Christie's global head of private sales and one of the company's chief auctioneers. "Now you can see a sale sitting on your couch in your underpants."
While many buyers still attend the sales -- some observing from the comfort of skyboxes above the auction floor -- online viewing appeals to people who simply don't want to sit in a salesroom for three hours, the length of a typical major auction.
Both companies admitted that fewer big collectors are coming to the sales, preferring to watch the highlights online at home. "This is the age of discretion," said Sandy Heller, a veteran art adviser who has helped put together some of the world's major collections. "And what's more discreet than watching a sale at home on your iPad?"
Even a seasoned auction-goer like Steven A. Cohen, the hedge fund billionaire and owner of the Mets, said, "It sure makes life easier to be able to watch these sales online."
Auction houses ramped up their livestream sales during the pandemic shutdown in 2020, "when people couldn't see art or go to an auction," said Charles Stewart, the chief executive of Sotheby's. "It was a massive and long overdue moment for us to expand digitally and rethink the physical experience."
The first Christie's auction livestreamed during the pandemic drew about 100,000 people, according to the auction house. Marc Porter, chairman of Christie's Americas, recalled that the sale, in July 2020, featuring Impressionist, modern, postwar and contemporary art, was a simple production, shot with just one camera. But it helped "launch what is effectively now a Broadway show," he said.
The big three auction houses have since hired production companies and added more channels, transforming these events into what Stewart of Sotheby's calls "must-see TV," borrowing the famous advertising slogan from NBC. (While Phillips, the smaller, boutique auction house, has not shrunk its salesrooms, it, too, has made its big auctions available on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, and, in China, WeChat, Weibo and Red.)
The worldwide reception has surprised experts everywhere. From May 2022 to May 2023, views of Christie's auctions rose 25 percent, from 3.7 million to 4.6 million, with 10 cameras now capturing the events. (These numbers do not include people watching auctions afterward on YouTube.) "We never expected these numbers," said Bonnie Brennan, president of Christie's Americas. "It's the power of social media."
While the majority of those watching online are unlikely to have millions to spend on art -- and buyers must register with the auction houses to bid -- many end up perusing Sotheby's and Christie's websites, where they may discover something to buy at other price points, including watches, handbags and jewelry. "We see luxury items as a gateway to art," Brennan added. "It's about the democratization of access."
She added that while the actual number of buyers has remained steady, "the way they are buying has changed dramatically, with 80 percent of bids coming from online channels around the world." Sotheby's reported that 91 percent of its bids in 2022 were executed online.
(The Art Basel and UBS Survey of Global Collecting recently reported that sales at Christie's, Sotheby's, Phillips and Bonhams auction houses were down by 16 percent in the first six months of 2023, over the same period a year earlier.)
Online buyers tend to be younger than the average collector. "They have the confidence that these digital tools are effective, and they feel more in control," Brennan explained. Another major change: the number of collectors who are bidding on and often buying art and objects without having seen them.
Three years ago, Sotheby's tested a sale with socially distanced bidders in three cities. An Asian collector bid more than $ 70 million -- sight unseen -- for a triptych by the painter Francis Bacon. (It ended up selling to an undisclosed telephone bidder for $ 84.6 million, with fees. According to Sotheby's, the winning buyer had seen the painting.)
Both auction houses said sophisticated technology has given buyers confidence to acquire works without viewing them in person. Computer software similar to that used by real estate firms or furniture stores can virtually show potential bidders what a living room would look like with a particular work of art hanging over the fireplace or in the entrance hall. Christie's has a hologram that replicates an object in three-dimensions. When it was selling a Degas "Little Dancer" sculpture from the estate of the philanthropist Anne Bass, the work was too delicate to travel, so experts showed it virtually. It sold for $ 41.6 million.
"Given that these sales are so highly produced," said Heller, the art adviser, clients "can have a much better experience simply streaming" rather than being in the room where it happens.
With such large audiences, and so much at stake, Sotheby's auctioneers do far less ad-libbing. An editorial team now writes the scripts for the major sales with a succinct description of each artwork projected on a teleprompter.
"Talking with a teleprompter makes it smoother, more professional," explained Oliver Barker, chairman of Sotheby's Europe and one of its star auctioneers, who now fields bids not just from the salesroom and telephone bidders but also from online, making the process far more challenging than it once was. (Christie's auctioneers have the same complications but only use a teleprompter for salesroom announcements, not for actual auctions.)
Professional hair and makeup experts are on hand for auctioneers and the now-visible banks of telephone bid-takers. "I tell the experts there's to be no scowling; no bad behavior," Gorman Round, of Christie's, said.
Just like a television show, Sotheby's even has advertisers. The phrase "in partnership with Samsung" can be seen in the Sotheby's auction room; on its website and on promotional videos. (The consumer electronics giant pays an undisclosed flat fee). Christie's said it doesn't have the same kind of advertising, but during the pandemic its male auctioneers wore Brioni suits and the women were dressed in Alexander McQueen. Both fashion houses are owned by Kering, which is part of Groupe Artemis, the holding company that also owns Christie's.
Just as Super Bowl parties fire up sports viewers, auction parties are becoming popular, too. Fans online like to talk too.
On the night of Sept. 6, Sotheby's London salesroom had some 300 collectors and fans watching Barker wield his gavel for the first auction of art, objects, ephemera, and costumes of the late British singer and song writer Freddie Mercury. In the days that followed, according to Sotheby's, there were about 9.5 million views of the sale on TikTok. The entire collection, which ultimately brought in $ 50.4 million, created a new community of online enthusiasts.
"Incredible!" one wrote. "Love watching these ... as if I have two pennies to rub together."
As the bidding heated up and the numbers rose, so did emotions:
"Am sat here eating beans on toast because my electricity bill is so big. It's either eat or heat. World makes me sick."
Another declared the sale a "vulgar display of wealth."
But social media has developed a new group of celebrities in their own right: Auctioneers are frequently being recognized on the street or in their local supermarkets. Facebook has a group of fans of Oliver Barker, the Sotheby's auctioneer, who call themselves the BarkerHeads.
"Who is the auctioneer? ❤️❤️❤️," read one online post, referring to Barker.
"I love watching this," wrote another. "But I want to reach into the screen and fix his bowtie." The Christie's auction floor in New York has a sophisticated lighting system for professionally produced online streaming. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA SOTHEBY'S) (C1); Top, Christie's New York control room is set for action. The events draw advertisers along with millions of views worldwide. Above, "Talking with a teleprompter makes it smoother, more professional," said Oliver Barker, chairman of Sotheby's Europe and the auctioneer. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA CHRISTIE'S; SOTHEBY'S) (C4) This article appeared in print on page C1, C4.

Subject: Auctions; Sales; Contemporary art; Bids; Pandemics; Social networks; Art markets

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales Social networks

Company / organization: Name: Sothebys; NAICS: 459920; Name : TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/06/arts/design/art-auctions-.html

Title: Teleprompter! Makeup! Gavel!:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 7, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2886491767

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teleprompter-makeup-gavel/docview/2886491767/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A YouTube Gossip Spills Her Secret: [Style Desk]

Author: Madison Malone Kircher

Publication info: Madison Malone Kircher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/youtube-gossip-spills-her-secret/docview/2885974528/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For years, people have wondered who's behind the popular Spill Sesh channel. On Friday, the person behind the account unmasked herself.
For the last five years, Spill Sesh, a popular YouTube channel, has covered the world of social media stars, providing detailed recaps and tart commentary on their scandals and beefs du jour.
But even as the Spill Sesh channel racked up more than 700,000 subscribers, the person behind it kept her identity secret. She has not appeared in the account's more than 1,000 videos and has disguised her voice with an audio filter called monster.
Her viewers have long speculated about who or what was behind the channel. Was it a content farm? Or someone related to a famous YouTuber? Or maybe a famous YouTuber, doing gossip on the side? On Friday, the mystery was solved when the person behind Spill Sesh revealed her secret in a new video.
She is Kristi Cook, a former TMZ staff member who grew up in Florida. In an interview with The New York Times, the first she has given under her own name, she said that she had initially kept her identity hidden because she felt it gave her more creative freedom. Now that she's self-employed, and doing well enough to own a house in Los Angeles, she sees no reason to stay in the shadows.
Ms. Cook, 26, developed an interest in pop culture as a young girl, during what she described as her "Disney Channel era." After that, she went online and more or less stayed there. "YouTube was where I was consuming all my content from middle school and beyond," she said.
She contributed to USA Today in her first year at Florida Atlantic University. Then she moved to California and worked as a tour guide on the Warner Bros. lot in Burbank, outside Los Angeles. She soon landed an internship at TMZ that eventually became a full-time job, and dropped out of college.
"Our art department was called 'the galleries,' and we made photo galleries," Ms. Cook said. "On the top of the TMZ website, there's like five main stories, and two of them are photo oriented." Her work involved "scouring Instagram every single day," she said, an experience that prepared her for eventual career.
"One day in 2018, I stumbled upon a drama video," Ms. Cook said, referring to an online genre known as drama commentary, in which a host recaps the ups and downs of people with large followings on YouTube. "I was fascinated by the fact that people were interested in news about YouTubers, because at the time I didn't think mainstream media was covering it. They're not on People magazine when you're at the grocery store."
She started her own drama channel -- Spill Sesh -- and proved adept at distilling Instagram posts, YouTube back catalogs and podcast episodes into informative videos for an audience keen to know the latest on Colleen Ballinger, Jeffree Star or the Try Guys.
Even if those names mean nothing to you, rest assured plenty of people are seeking out this information. Ms. Cook's videos have been collectively viewed more than 350 million times.
Jamie Cohen, an assistant professor of media studies at Queens College, said that so-called tea channels like Spill Sesh draw viewers by taking them "into the main dramatic parts of YouTube that are often seen but glossed over."
When Spill Sesh began to catch on, Ms. Cook was worried about guarding her anonymity. "In the beginning, I think the scariest thing was people commenting, wanting to know who I was," she said. But her decision to remain off-camera and to use the audio filter wasn't enough to keep one viewer from sussing out her identity.
After her first viral video, she received messages from a stranger who had figured out her name through an old Instagram handle and comments from friends on Facebook and her LinkedIn page. Ms. Cook said she was worried that she would lose her job and the health insurance that went with it.
The person who guessed her identity turned out not to be a complete troll, and with his help she started deleting everything she could find about herself online and requesting that her personal information be removed from database websites.
As the popularity of Spill Sesh continued to grow, money rolled in from ads and sponsorships. In an average month, Ms. Cook said she makes about $ 20,000 from ads on YouTube alone. In her best months, that figure can be as high as $ 50,000, she said.
She told her parents what she was up to when she started making enough to rent an apartment without their financial assistance.
"I was like, 'You guys. I've been doing this thing on the side. It's YouTube videos,"' Ms. Cook said. They were confused, but supportive, she added. "I think it's a hard concept, like, 'How are you getting a check from this?"' she said.
The income also allowed her to leave TMZ and buy a house. "I would never be able to own a home if I did not do this," she said.
Since leaving her day job in 2021, Ms. Cook has been a little less secretive about what she does for a living. In addition to family members and some friends, her fellow drama commentators know exactly who she is. On dating apps, she has referred to herself as a journalist and has tried to change the subject when asked for details.
Although she covers a milieu often overlooked by many large news outlets, she does consider herself a journalist. "I really try to make sure what I say is correct," Ms. Cook said. "There's obviously been times where I've gotten things wrong."
She made her video reveal with Manny Gutierrez, who is a YouTube makeup artist known as Manny MUA, and who was the subject of the first Spill Sesh video. "The perfect full-circle moment," Ms. Cook said.
In the video, as Mr. Gutierrez gives her a makeover, Ms. Cook reveals her face to the camera. "It's actually Kristi," she says, addressing her viewers in an undistorted voice at last.
Photograph Kristi Cook, who started the YouTube channel Spill Sesh after working at TMZ. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SINNA NASSERI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST4.

Subject: Video recordings; Social networks; Gossip

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Florida; Los Angeles California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/03/style/youtube-spill-sesh-kristi-cook-tmz.html

Title: A YouTube Gossip Spills Her Secret:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 5, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885974528

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/youtube-gossip-spills-her-secret/docview/2885974528/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Saleemul Huq, 71, Dies; He Wanted Rich Nations To Pay for Climate Issues: [Biography]

Author: Nossiter, Adam

Publication info: Nossiter, Adam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/saleemul-huq-71-dies-he-wanted-rich-nations-pay/docview/2885704554/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He pressed rich nations to compensate poorer ones for the disproportionate "loss and damage" they've endured because of greenhouse gas emissions.
Saleemul Huq, a Bangladeshi-British scientist who played a leading role in trying to get rich nations to compensate poorer ones for the damaging effects of climate change largely brought about by the developed world, died on Saturday in Dhaka, Bangladesh, the capital. He was 71.
His death was confirmed by the International Center for Climate Change and Development in Dhaka, a research organization he directed and helped found. The newspaper The Daily Star in Bangladesh, to which he contributed a column, said the cause was a heart attack. He died at home, a family member said.
Mr. Huq (pronounced hook), who trained as a botanist, was perhaps the principal proponent of the idea that the developed world's emissions of greenhouse gases were having a disproportionate impact on the climate in poorer countries, and that wealthy countries should pay for measures to curb or reverse those effects.
He was one of the few who had been to every United Nations-organized climate summit, or COP (for Conference of the Parties), since the first one in 1995.
At the most recent summit, in Egypt in 2022, he helped push through an international commitment to create a fund to pay for the damage. "It's unfortunate that he won't be able to see the fruit of it," the family member, who asked not to be identified, said in a telephone interview. "He's obviously irreplaceable."
The British journal Nature named Mr. Huq one of "10 people who helped shape science in 2022."
Those who knew him said he was deeply influenced by what he saw happening in his country. Climate change appeared to be unfolding in front of him, in real time, with effects on many Bangladeshis.
Cyclone Amphan, intensified by warmer ocean temperatures, displaced thousands in Bangladesh in 2020 after the storm destroyed their homes. "This is loss and damage to the livelihoods of the people," he told The New York Times in 2021, using a phrase he called "a euphemism for terms we're not allowed to use, which are 'liability and compensation."'
In his last piece of writing, a column in The Guardian written with Farhana Sultana of Syracuse University and published on Nov. 1, Mr. Huq struck a pessimistic note.
"Unfortunately, in many cases the damage has already been done," the authors wrote. "In increasing numbers of places, adaptation is no longer possible -- for instance, where displacement, ecosystem damage and loss of homeland to sea-level rise has already occurred. This is 'loss and damage' in real time."
In The Daily Star, Mr. Huq wrote on Oct. 4 about the "world leaders" he deemed largely responsible for the greenhouse gas problem: "It is not that they are not doing anything, but that they are doing too little too late."
In June, he wrote an open letter to the president of the forthcoming COP, in Dubai, describing how in Bangladesh, "every single day, over 2,000 climate-displaced people arrive by foot, cycle, boat and bus in Dhaka and disappear into the city slums."
"No one is looking after them," he added, "but they are people being forced to move by human-induced climate change and are hence the responsibility of the U.N.F.C.C.C.," the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
He was not generally a pessimist, however. Colleagues remembered him as an inspirational figure whose continued insistence that poorer countries have a say in the global struggle over climate change appeared to be finally paying off.
Mr. Huq was a familiar and friendly presence at the COP and other global meetings on climate change, as ready to speak with journalists as to buttonhole movers and shakers.
Asif Saleh, the executive director of the Bangladesh-based international development organization BRAC, wrote of Mr. Huq in a tribute on LinkedIn: "At the COP event, he was one of the most sought after figures -- journalists, negotiators, NGOs, young activists, govt ministers -- all looked for a few minutes with him. He did not disappoint either. He would sit on a table and there would be a steady stream of people paying their dues to him."
Mr. Huq's fundamental message was that "climate change is real, and it is happening in these places, in the far corners of Bangladesh and Burundi," said Achala Abeysinghe, Asia regional director at the Global Green Growth Institute in Seoul, in a phone interview.
"Unless there is a champion to talk about them," she said, "nobody will."
Saleemul Huq was born in Karachi, Pakistan, on Oct. 2, 1952, to Zahoorul and Shajeda Huq. His father was in Pakistan's diplomatic service, and Mr. Huq grew up in Berlin, Nairobi, Djakarta and London.
He received a doctorate in botany from Imperial College London. In Bangladesh, he was a lecturer in botany at Dhaka University and helped found the Bangladesh Center for Advanced Studies, an environmental research organization.
Mr. Huq was also an associate of the International Institute for Environment and Development in London, and he contributed to the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
He is survived by his wife, Kashana Huq; his daughter, Sadaf Huq; and his son, Saqib.
"For him, the main thing was, there are no 'victims' of climate change," said Dr. Lisa Schipper of the University of Bonn in Germany, an expert on climate change in the global south. "Everybody is an actor. He wanted us to look at people in Bangladesh as people with knowledge. He talked about Bangladesh as a laboratory. He wanted scholars and policymakers to come to Bangladesh, and he wanted to make sure developing countries got the money they were owed."
Somini Sengupta contributed reporting.
Somini Sengupta contributed reporting.
Photograph Saleemul Huq in Bangladesh last year. He deemed "world leaders" largely responsible for the greenhouse gas problem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IIED); Cyclone Amphan left a trail of destruction in Bangladesh in August 2020. The storm was intensified by warmer ocean waters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAZI SALAHUDDIN RAZU/NURPHOTO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B13.

Subject: Developing countries--LDCs; Greenhouse gases; Displaced persons; Emissions; Climate change; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Developing countries--LDCs

Location: Bangladesh; Pakistan

Company / organization: Name: Daily Star; NAICS: 513110; Name: United Nations--UN; NAICS: 928120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/03/climate/saleemul-huq-dead.html

Title: Saleemul Huq, 71, Dies; He Wanted Rich Nations To Pay for Climate Issues:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2885704554

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/saleemul-huq-71-dies-he-wanted-rich-nations-pay/docview/2885704554/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Silicon Valley Shrugs Off Bankman-Fried's Trial: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-shrugs-off-bankman-frieds-trial/docview/2885704504/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tech investors lauded Mr. Bankman-Fried and helped fund his FTX crypto exchange. The tech industry has since done what it does best: move on.
In the four weeks that Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of the FTX cryptocurrency exchange, was on trial on fraud charges, the tech industry:
Reacted to the war in Israel and Gaza, including protesting a tech conference organizer's social media posts about the conflict.
Buzzed over a manifesto from a top venture capitalist outlining a list of enemies to technological progress.
Scrambled to invest money in the hottest artificial intelligence company, OpenAI, at triple its valuation earlier this year.
Hotly debated the new features on Threads, a social media site owned by Meta.
All of which is to say that, despite the involvement of many Silicon Valley insiders in FTX, people in tech were not outwardly obsessed over the ins and outs of Mr. Bankman-Fried's trial, which ended when he was found guilty of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy on Thursday. They barely mustered a shrug.
The apathy may have had many reasons, including that FTX's downfall has been well covered by two books, a documentary and multiple podcasts in the year since it happened. But a simpler answer could be that the tech industry has again done what it does best: move on to the next thing.
The industry hasn't fixated on Mr. Bankman-Fried's fate because it is no longer fixated on crypto -- or web3, blockchain, DeFi, NFTs and other crypto-fied buzzwords that signified the cutting edge just two years ago. They may come back around in a few years. But for now, they are out of style and therefore irrelevant.
It is the beauty and the curse of Silicon Valley's innovation machine -- so eager to fail fast, so focused on the future and the shiny new thing -- that few ever seem to learn from its mistakes.
Hype cycles repeat themselves with a new flavor of technology, and the money quickly follows. Gig economy, daily deals, wearables, meal kits, social commerce, native ads, gamification, augmented reality, metaverse, internet of things, creator economy. Maybe a winner emerges; maybe it was all a big joke. Few get hurt, except perhaps the employees -- and those battle scars fade in time, too.
When the crypto industry collapsed last year, setting off a wave of lawsuits and criminal indictments that culminated in FTX's bankruptcy in November, it should have been a humbling comeuppance for those who had promoted it. The tech industry had poured billions into the promise of a new decentralized internet that could solve society's ills, and anyone expressing skepticism was labeled a hater. That promise turned out to be a casino that was easily exploited by criminals and hucksters, some of whom fled overseas when it all came crashing down.
Between November 2021 and November 2022, the cryptocurrency market lost roughly $ 2 trillion in value, or two-thirds of its total. Since then, 95 percent of nonfungible tokens, or NFTs, have become worthless, according to an analysis by the crypto gambling company DappGambl. Shares of Coinbase, the only crypto exchange to list its shares on a U.S. stock exchange, have plunged 74 percent since it went public in 2021. Investors who parked money with Gemini, Genesis and Digital Currency Group, three well-known crypto firms, lost $ 1 billion, according to a fraud lawsuit by the New York attorney general.
Yet few in the tech industry have admitted that crypto failed to deliver on its hype. The crash is just part of a normal "crypto winter" cycle, the thinking goes, not a symptom of a larger problem.
Some crypto companies have since tried rebranding with less stigmatized terms like "decentralization" or "on chain." Autograph, an NFT start-up co-founded by the retired football star Tom Brady, quietly removed some of the crypto language from its marketing. Paradigm Capital, a crypto investment firm that poured $ 278 million into FTX, erased mentions of the word "crypto" from its website this year, describing itself as a "research-driven technology investment firm." After criticism from crypto die-hards, the firm reinstated the language.
Marc Andreessen, whose venture firm, Andreessen Horowitz, has raised more than $ 7 billion to invest in the crypto industry, touted the technology's "extraordinarily high" potential in a February interview with Reason magazine. In October, he published a manifesto longer than the U.S. Constitution that outlined his views for the future of civilization, including praise for the "upward spiral" of free markets. He named tech ethics and risk management as enemies of progress.
Yury Lifshits, the founder of the start-up Superdao, was one of the few to call the bust for what it was and return his remaining funding to investors. Superdao sold software and analytics tools to crypto projects; in September, Mr. Lifshits wrote that the company had failed because its customers had a "short life span" and he didn't see a way to build a big business.
"Many of the promises of crypto turned out to be unachievable," he told The New York Times, adding that he has concluded that crypto "doesn't have the power to change the world across dozens of industries as 'the new internet."'
In Mr. Bankman-Fried's trial, tech investors dodged scrutiny of any role they had played in the company's operations. Judge Lewis A. Kaplan, who is overseeing the fraud case in the Southern District of New York, barred evidence that painted investors as "negligent, gullible or insufficiently vigilant" as irrelevant.
Matt Huang, an investor at Paradigm Capital, testified that he had never been told that FTX allowed Mr. Bankman-Fried's separate hedge fund, Alameda Research, to take enormous risks, which would lead to FTX's demise. Knowing about that, Mr. Huang testified, would have affected his decision to invest. Paradigm declined to comment.
When one of Mr. Bankman-Fried's lawyers, David Lisner, tried pointing out that Mr. Huang knew FTX had little oversight, including no board of directors, Judge Kaplan stopped the line of questioning and warned Mr. Lisner against "suggesting that the investment loss was the product of gullibility and negligence by the investor."
One lawsuit is trying to take FTX's largest outside investors to task, accusing them of lending the company an "air of legitimacy" with their investments and promotions of the exchange. Sequoia Capital, an FTX investor, commissioned and published a glowing profile of Mr. Bankman-Fried for its website, for instance. Sequoia deleted the article after FTX collapsed.
The lawsuit is a long shot, since investors can easily respond that they, too, were victims of FTX. Plus, hyping investments is one of the venture capital industry's most cherished pastimes. A settlement or victory in such a case would spell doom for a large portion of the conversations on LinkedIn, Substack, X, YouTube and many tech conference stages.
Sequoia's reputation has hardly suffered. The firm has backed several of the hottest A.I. companies, including OpenAI and Hugging Face, and it continues to publish aggrandizing profiles of founders on its website. Stephanie Zhan, a partner at the firm, recently told Crunchbase News that "A.I. has brought new life to the investing ecosystem in the last year." Sequoia did not respond to a request to comment.
In court, Mr. Bankman-Fried testified that his vision for FTX was to take the best elements of the finance world and combine them with the best of the crypto world.
"It could move the ecosystem forward," he said. But in the end, he acknowledged, "it turned out the opposite of that."
Photograph PHOTO (B1); Silicon Valley venture firms once clamored to invest in FTX and praised its founder, Sam Bankman-Fried. But the industry's crypto fixation is over. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFERSON SIEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Digital currencies; Internet; Investments; Non-fungible tokens; Startups; Trials; Social networks; Fraud

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Non-fungible tokens Startups Social networks

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Bankman-Fried, Sam

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/02/technology/sam-bankman-fried-silicon-valley.html

Title: Silicon Valley Shrugs Off Bankman-Fried's Trial:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885704504

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-shrugs-off-bankman-frieds-trial/docview/2885704504/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Investigation of Campaign Adviser Is a Setback for Adams: [National Desk]

Author: Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Mays, Jeffery C

Publication info: Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Mays, Jeffery C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/investigation-campaign-adviser-is-setback-adams/docview/2885704503/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mayor Eric Adams has faced ethics issues for years. A raid of his chief fund-raiser's home poses a serious threat.
Even as Eric Adams completed his rise in New York City politics and became mayor, questions remained over ethical issues and his ties to people with troubling pasts.
His fund-raising tactics have repeatedly pushed the boundaries of campaign-finance and ethics laws. His relationships with his donors have drawn attention and prompted investigations. Some donors and even a former buildings commissioner have been indicted.
Mr. Adams, a moderate Democrat in his second year in office, has not been implicated in any misconduct, but a broad public corruption investigation involving his chief fund-raiser and his 2021 campaign has drawn the mayor even closer to the edge.
On Thursday, federal agents conducted an early-morning raid at the Brooklyn home of Brianna Suggs, Mr. Adams's top fund-raiser and a trusted confidante. The inquiry is focusing on whether the mayor's campaign conspired with the Turkish government to receive illegal foreign donations.
Mr. Adams, who typically takes great pains to distance himself from any investigation of people in his outer circle, took the opposite tack on Thursday.
He abruptly canceled several meetings in Washington, D.C., where he was scheduled to discuss the migrant crisis with White House officials and members of Congress, and returned to New York.
Appearing at Gracie Mansion on Thursday night, Mr. Adams said he wanted to be "on the ground" to "look at this inquiry" as it unfolded.
His decision to return risked leaving the impression that he placed more importance on the investigation than the migrant crisis, and political experts said the mayor had allowed the raid to distract him from addressing a key policy goal.
"The timing is not great for the mayor because he's been very clear that the city needs a lot more funding from the federal government," said Christina Greer, a political science professor who is currently a fellow at the City College of New York. "This was an opportunity for him, literally and symbolically, to be in Washington with his tin can demanding more funds for New York."
The mayor prizes loyalty and has a close inner circle of top advisers, many of whom are expected to work on his re-election campaign. Ms. Suggs, 25, is particularly valued: She is close with Ingrid Lewis-Martin, the mayor's longtime aide, and she has helped Mr. Adams raise millions of dollars.
She claimed to have helped bring in more than $ 18 million to his 2021 campaign, according to her LinkedIn profile, and more than $ 2.5 million to his 2025 campaign, according to campaign finance records.
The mayor's impressive fund-raising haul was designed, in part, to discourage potential Democratic primary challengers from entering the 2025 race, even though he is unpopular with many liberal and progressive Democrats who have started searching for a strong candidate to run against him from the left.
The 2025 mayoral race is still relatively far away, but the raid and investigation could encourage candidates to seriously consider challenging Mr. Adams, said Basil Smikle, director of the Public Policy Program at Hunter College, who served as campaign manager for a rival mayoral candidate in 2021.
"The question has always been how close the scandal is to the mayor, and this is getting pretty close -- that could be a concern for him," Mr. Smikle said.
"If there's still lingering concerns, it could open the door for a progressive challenger and, quite frankly, for a moderate Republican or independent challenger as well," he said.
Indeed, on Thursday, Evan Roth Smith, a political consultant who worked on Andrew Yang's 2021 mayoral campaign, posted on social media: "2025 starts today."
Mr. Roth Smith said in an interview that the raid had created a "radically different picture" of the coming race and that ambitious politicians might be giving it another look.
That was not the case with Christine Quinn, the former City Council speaker who lost the Democratic primary for mayor a decade ago, and who has entertained thoughts of running for mayor again one day.
"I said I'm not running against Mayor Adams and that hasn't changed," Ms. Quinn said. "Obviously the news for the mayor isn't good," she added, but she said the ultimate implications were unclear.
A person close to the political operation of Zellnor Myrie, a state senator from Brooklyn, said that interest in whether Mr. Myrie would run for mayor had grown after news of the raid, and that Mr. Myrie had received calls from stakeholders and donors asking if he was seriously considering a campaign.
The mayor's allies, however, were quick to defend Mr. Adams and urged New Yorkers not to assume the worst.
Rodneyse Bichotte Hermelyn, a state assemblywoman who leads the Brooklyn Democratic Party, questioned if the scrutiny of the Adams administration might be racially motivated -- a charge that some of Mr. Adams's supporters have lodged before.
"I'm concerned about whether these investigations are just targeting him because he's a Black mayor," she said. "You have people who try to take people down who are really trying to help the city."
She added: "I'm not concerned about any wrongdoing on his part."
Still, the mayor's ethical issues and ties to people with troubling records go back many years.
As Brooklyn borough president, he took money from developers who lobbied him or won his recommendations for crucial zoning changes.
As a state senator, he became embroiled in a scandal after his committee helped choose a purveyor of video-lottery machines at Aqueduct Racetrack.
One adviser, the Rev. Alfred L. Cockfield II, who manages a political action committee associated with the mayor, pleaded guilty in 1998 to transporting cocaine.
As mayor, Mr. Adams hired David Johnson, a former top aide to Gov. David Paterson whose involvement in a criminal harassment case led Mr. Paterson to withdraw from the 2010 governor's race.
Mr. Adams has also been linked with a Brooklyn pastor known as the "bling bishop" who was charged with fraud and extortion and to twin brothers who share a criminal history involving money laundering.
His deputy mayor for public safety, Philip Banks III, was an unindicted co-conspirator in an expansive corruption scheme in 2014; federal prosectors said he accepted trips and other gifts while a high-ranking police official.
In September, Eric Ulrich, Mr. Adams's former buildings commissioner, was indicted by the Manhattan district attorney on 16 felony charges, including counts of conspiracy and bribetaking.
Mr. Bragg also indicted six people, including a retired police inspector who once worked and socialized with Mr. Adams, for conspiring to funnel illegal donations to the mayor's 2021 campaign. Two brothers recently pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor conspiracy charge in the donor case.
And one of the mayor's closest advisers, Timothy Pearson, is being investigated over reports that he recently pushed a security guard into a table at a migrant center.
Mr. Adams has said that he does not hold people's pasts against them, pointing to his own arrest on trespassing charges at the age of 15 as evidence that people evolve.
He has sought to distance himself from Mr. Ulrich's indictment and the donor scheme, and his campaign has said that it "always held itself to the highest standards."
The mayor's predecessor, Bill de Blasio, faced his own swirl of investigations into his fund-raising, though he survived the inquiries and won a second term.
"The question remains: How much corruption is too much corruption for New Yorkers?" Ms. Greer said. "I don't know if New Yorkers will view this as a witch hunt, the inevitable or something to be concerned about."
Lincoln Restler, a city councilman from Brooklyn and a frequent critic of the mayor, said he found details of the investigation for which the raid was conducted to be "profoundly disturbing" and was sure that New Yorkers would be concerned and want answers.
"The ethical clouds around the mayor," he said, "have turned into thunderstorms."
Photograph The raid of Brianna Suggs's home, in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, occurred early on Thursday. Mayor Eric Adams has not been implicated in the investigation that led to a raid at the Brooklyn home of Brianna Suggs, one of his campaign's top fund-raisers. But the inquiry poses a threat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE KEITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: State elections; Mayors; Ethics; Scandals; Political finance

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/03/nyregion/eric-adams-fbi-raid-suggs.html

Title: Investigation of Campaign Adviser Is a Setback for Adams:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 4, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--Uni ted States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885704503

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/investigation-campaign-adviser-is-setback-adams/docview/2885704503/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

FBI Raid of Adams Ally Brings Corruption Question to Mayor’s Doorstep

Author: Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Mays, Jeffery C

Publication info: Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Mays, Jeffery C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fbi-raid-adams-ally-brings-corruption-question/docview/2885667529/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Even as Eric Adams completed his rise in New York City politics and became mayor, questions remained over ethical issues and his ties to people with troubling pasts.
His fundraising tactics have repeatedly pushed the boundaries of campaign-finance and ethics laws. His relationships with his donors have drawn attention and prompted investigations. Some donors and even a former buildings commissioner have been indicted.
Adams, a moderate Democrat in his second year in office, has not been implicated in any misconduct, but a broad public corruption investigation involving his chief fundraiser and his 2021 campaign has drawn the mayor even closer to the edge.
On Thursday, federal agents conducted an early-morning raid at the Brooklyn home of Brianna Suggs, Adams’ top fundraiser and a trusted confidant. The inquiry is focusing on whether the mayor’s campaign conspired with the Turkish government to receive illegal foreign donations.
Adams, who typically takes great pains to distance himself from any investigation of people in his outer circle, took the opposite tack Thursday.
He abruptly canceled several meetings in Washington, D.C., where he was scheduled to discuss the migrant crisis with White House officials and members of Congress, and returned to New York.
Appearing at Gracie Mansion on Thursday night, Adams said he wanted to be “on the ground” to “look at this inquiry” as it unfolded.
His decision to return risked leaving the impression that he placed more importance on the investigation than the migrant crisis, and political experts said the mayor had allowed the raid to distract him from addressing a key policy goal.
“The timing is not great for the mayor because he’s been very clear that the city needs a lot more funding from the federal government,” said Christina Greer, a political science professor who is currently a fellow at the City College of New York. “This was an opportunity for him, literally and symbolically, to be in Washington with his tin can demanding more funds for New York.”
The mayor prizes loyalty and has a close inner circle of top advisers, many of whom are expected to work on his reelection campaign. Suggs, 25, is particularly valued: She is close with Ingrid Lewis-Martin, the mayor’s longtime aide, and she has helped Adams raise millions of dollars.
She claimed to have helped bring in more than $18 million to his 2021 campaign, according to her LinkedIn profile, and more than $2.5 million to his 2025 campaign, according to campaign finance records.
The mayor’s impressive fundraising haul was designed, in part, to discourage potential Democratic primary challengers from entering the 2025 race, even though he is unpopular with many liberal and progressive Democrats who have started searching for a strong candidate to run against him from the left.
The 2025 mayoral race is still relatively far away, but the raid and investigation could encourage candidates to seriously consider challenging Adams, said Basil Smikle, director of the Public Policy Program at Hunter College, who served as campaign manager for a rival mayoral candidate in 2021.
“The question has always been how close the scandal is to the mayor, and this is getting pretty close; that could be a concern for him,” Smikle said.
“If there’s still lingering concerns, it could open the door for a progressive challenger and, quite frankly, for a moderate Republican or independent challenger as well,” he said.
Indeed, on Thursday, Evan Roth Smith, a political consultant who worked on Andrew Yang’s 2021 mayoral campaign, posted on social media, “2025 starts today.”
Roth Smith said in an interview that the raid had created a “radically different picture” of the coming race and that ambitious politicians might be giving it another look.
That was not the case with Christine Quinn, the former City Council speaker who lost the Democratic primary for mayor a decade ago and who has entertained thoughts of running for mayor again one day.
“I said I’m not running against Mayor Adams, and that hasn’t changed,” Quinn said. “Obviously, the news for the mayor isn’t good,” she added, but she said the ultimate implications were unclear.
A person close to the political operation of Zellnor Myrie, a state senator from Brooklyn, said that interest in whether Myrie would run for mayor had grown after news of the raid and that Myrie had received calls from stakeholders and donors asking if he was seriously considering a campaign.
The mayor’s allies, however, were quick to defend Adams and urged New Yorkers not to assume the worst.
Rodneyse Bichotte Hermelyn, a state assemblywoman who leads the Brooklyn Democratic Party, questioned if the scrutiny of the Adams administration might be racially motivated — a charge that some of Adams’ supporters have lodged before.
“ I’m concerned about whether these investigations are just targeting him because he’s a Black mayor,” she said. “You have people who try to take people down who are really trying to help the city.”
She added, “I’m not concerned about any wrongdoing on his part.”
Still, the mayor’s ethical issues and ties to people with troubling records go back many years.
As Brooklyn borough president, he took money from developers who lobbied him or won his recommendations for crucial zoning changes.
As a state senator, he became embroiled in a scandal after his committee helped choose a purveyor of video-lottery machines at Aqueduct Racetrack.
One adviser, the Rev. Alfred Cockfield II, who manages a political action committee associated with the mayor, pleaded guilty in 1998 to transporting cocaine.
As mayor, Adams hired David Johnson, a former top aide to Gov. David Paterson whose involvement in a criminal harassment case led Paterson to withdraw from the 2010 governor’s race.
Adams has also been linked with a Brooklyn pastor known as the “bling bishop” who was charged with fraud and extortion and to twin brothers who share a criminal history involving money laundering.
His deputy mayor for public safety, Philip Banks III, was an unindicted co-conspirator in an expansive corruption scheme in 2014; federal prosectors said he accepted trips and other gifts while a high-ranking police official.
In September, Eric Ulrich, Adams’ former buildings commissioner, was indicted by the Manhattan district attorney on 16 felony charges, including counts of conspiracy and bribetaking.
Bragg also indicted six people, including a retired police inspector who once worked and socialized with Adams, for conspiring to funnel illegal donations to the mayor’s 2021 campaign. Two brothers recently pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor conspiracy charge in the donor case.
And one of the mayor’s closest advisers, Timothy Pearson, is being investigated over reports that he recently pushed a security guard into a table at a migrant center.
Adams has said that he does not hold people’s pasts against them, pointing to his own arrest on trespassing charges at the age of 15 as evidence that people evolve.
He has sought to distance himself from Ulrich’s indictment and the donor scheme, and his campaign has said that it “always held itself to the highest standards.”
The mayor’s predecessor, Bill de Blasio, faced his own swirl of investigations into his fundraising, though he survived the inquiries and won a second term.
“The question remains: How much corruption is too much corruption for New Yorkers?” Greer said. “I don’t know if New Yorkers will view this as a witch hunt, the inevitable or something to be concerned about.”
Lincoln Restler, a City Council member from Brooklyn and a frequent critic of the mayor, said he found details of the investigation for which the raid was conducted to be “profoundly disturbing” and was sure that New Yorkers would be concerned and want answers.
“The ethical clouds around the mayor,” he said, “have turned into thunderstorms.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fund raising; Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act 2002-US; Corruption; Political finance; Political parties; Indictments; Mayors; Conspiracy; Ethics; Criminal investigations; Scandals

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Primaries And Caucuses; Aqueduct Racetrack; New York City; City Council (Nyc); Disasters And Emergencies; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Zoning; United States Politics And Government; Executives And Management (Theory); Suggs, Brianna; Labor And Jobs; City College Of New York; Pearson, Timothy; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Quinn, Christine C; United States; Linkedin Corporation; Elections, Mayors; Politics And Government; Banks, Philip Iii; Lewis Martin, Ingrid P; Gifts To Public Officials; Social Media; Smikle, Basil S Jr; City Councils; Brooklyn (Nyc); Trespassing; State Legislatures; Hunter College; Frauds And Swindling; Local Government; Bichotte, Rodneyse; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Money Laundering; Corruption (Institutional); Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; New York State; Illegal Immigration; Adams, Eric L; Ulrich, Eric A; Nepotism; Myrie, Zellnor; Gracie Mansion (Manhattan, Ny); Yang, Andrew (1975 ); Compensation For Damages (Law); Paterson, David A; Washington (Dc); Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Campaign Finance; De Blasio, Bill

Title: FBI Raid of Adams Ally Brings Corruption Qu estion to Mayor’s Doorstep

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-03T22:44:11Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885667529

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fbi-raid-adams-ally-brings-corruption-question/docview/2885667529/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Silicon Valley Shrugs Off Sam Bankman-Fried’s Trial

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-shrugs-off-sam-bankman-fried-s/docview/2885667518/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — In the four weeks that Sam Bankman-Fried, founder of the FTX cryptocurrency exchange, was on trial on fraud charges, the tech industry:
— Reacted to the war in Israel and the Gaza Strip, including protesting a tech conference organizer’s social media posts about the conflict.
— Buzzed over a manifesto from a top venture capitalist outlining a list of enemies to technological progress.
— Scrambled to invest money in the hottest artificial intelligence company, OpenAI, at triple its valuation earlier this year.
— Hotly debated the new features on Threads, a social media site owned by Meta.
All of which is to say that despite the involvement of many Silicon Valley insiders in FTX, people in tech were not outwardly obsessed over the ins and outs of Bankman-Fried’s trial, which ended when he was found guilty of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy Thursday. They barely mustered a shrug.
The apathy may have had many reasons, including that FTX’s downfall has been well covered by two books, a documentary and multiple podcasts in the year since it happened. But a simpler answer could be that the tech industry has again done what it does best: move on to the next thing.
The industry hasn’t fixated on Bankman-Fried’s fate because it is no longer fixated on crypto — or web3, blockchain, DeFi, NFTs and other crypto-fied buzzwords that signified the cutting edge just two years ago. They may come back around in a few years. But for now, they are out of style and therefore irrelevant.
It is the beauty and the curse of Silicon Valley’s innovation machine — so eager to fail fast, so focused on the future and the shiny new thing — that few ever seem to learn from its mistakes.
Hype cycles repeat themselves with a new flavor of technology, and the money quickly follows. Gig economy, daily deals, wearables, meal kits, social commerce, native ads, gamification, augmented reality, metaverse, internet of things, creator economy. Maybe a winner emerges; maybe it was all a big joke. Few get hurt, except perhaps the employees — and those battle scars fade in time, too.
When the crypto industry collapsed last year, setting off a wave of lawsuits and criminal indictments that culminated in FTX’s bankruptcy in November, it should have been a humbling comeuppance for those who had promoted it. The tech industry had poured billions into the promise of a new decentralized internet that could solve society’s ills, and anyone expressing skepticism was labeled a hater. That promise turned out to be a casino that was easily exploited by criminals and hucksters, some of whom fled overseas when it all came crashing down.
Between November 2021 and November 2022, the cryptocurrency market lost roughly $2 trillion in value, or two-thirds of its total. Since then, 95% of nonfungible tokens, or NFTs, have become worthless, according to an analysis by crypto gambling company DappGambl. Shares of Coinbase, the only crypto exchange to list its shares on a U.S. stock exchange, have plunged 74% since it went public in 2021. Investors who parked money with Gemini, Genesis and Digital Currency Group, three well-known crypto firms, lost $1 billion, according to a fraud lawsuit by the New York attorney general.
Yet, few in the tech industry have admitted that crypto failed to deliver on its hype. The crash is just part of a normal “crypto winter” cycle, the thinking goes, not a symptom of a larger problem.
Some crypto companies have since tried rebranding with less stigmatized terms such as “decentralization” or “on chain.” Autograph, an NFT startup co-founded by retired football star Tom Brady, quietly removed some of the crypto language from its marketing. Paradigm Capital, a crypto investment firm that poured $278 million into FTX, erased mentions of the word “crypto” from its website this year, describing itself as a “research-driven technology investment firm.” After criticism from crypto die-hards, the firm reinstated the language.
Marc Andreessen, whose venture firm, Andreessen Horowitz, has raised more than $7 billion to invest in the crypto industry, touted the technology’s “extraordinarily high” potential in a February interview with Reason magazine. In October, he published a manifesto longer than the U.S. Constitution that outlined his views for the future of civilization, including praise for the “upward spiral” of free markets. He named tech ethics and risk management as enemies of progress.
Yury Lifshits, founder of startup Superdao, was one of the few to call the bust for what it was and return his remaining funding to investors. Superdao sold software and analytics tools to crypto projects; in September, Lifshits wrote that the company had failed because its customers had a “short life span” and he didn’t see a way to build a big business.
“Many of the promises of crypto turned out to be unachievable,” he told The New York Times, adding that he has concluded that crypto “doesn’t have the power to change the world across dozens of industries as ‘the new internet.’”
In Bankman-Fried’s trial, tech investors dodged scrutiny of any role they had played in the company’s operations. Judge Lewis Kaplan, who is overseeing the fraud case in the Southern District of New York, barred evidence that painted investors as “negligent, gullible or insufficiently vigilant” as irrelevant.
Matt Huang, an investor at Paradigm Capital, testified that he had never been told that FTX allowed Bankman-Fried’s separate hedge fund, Alameda Research, to take enormous risks, which would lead to FTX’s demise. Knowing about that, Huang testified, would have affected his decision to invest. Paradigm declined to comment.
When one of Bankman-Fried’s lawyers, David Lisner, tried pointing out that Huang knew FTX had little oversight, including no board of directors, Kaplan stopped the line of questioning and warned Lisner against “suggesting that the investment loss was the product of gullibility and negligence by the investor.”
One lawsuit is trying to take FTX’s largest outside investors to task, accusing them of lending the company an “air of legitimacy” with their investments and promotions of the exchange. Sequoia Capital, an FTX investor, commissioned and published a glowing profile of Bankman-Fried for its website, for instance. Sequoia deleted the article after FTX collapsed.
The lawsuit is a long shot, since investors can easily respond that they, too, were victims of FTX. Plus, hyping investments is one of the venture capital industry’s most cherished pastimes. A settlement or victory in such a case would spell doom for a large portion of the conversations on LinkedIn, Substack, X, YouTube and many tech conference stages.
Sequoia’s reputation has hardly suffered. The firm has backed several of the hottest AI companies, including OpenAI and Hugging Face, and it continues to publish aggrandizing profiles of founders on its website. Stephanie Zhan, a partner at the firm, recently told Crunchbase News that “AI has brought new life to the investing ecosystem in the last year.” Sequoia did not respond to a request to comment.
In court, Bankman-Fried testified that his vision for FTX was to take the best elements of the finance world and combine them with the best of the crypto world.
“It could move the ecosystem forward,” he said. But in the end, he acknowledged, “it turned out the opposite of that.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Digital currencies; Internet; Investments; Non-fungible tokens; Startups; Social networks; Fraud

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Non-fungible tokens Startups Social networks

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Bankman-Fried, Sam

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

Identifier / keyword: Linkedin Corporation; Andreessen Horowitz; Social Media; Openai Labs; Polls And Public Opinion; Sequoia Capital; Brady, Tom; Venture Capital; United States; Palestinians; Israel; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Language And Languages; Kaplan, Lewis A; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Fugitives; Threads (Mobile App); Defense And Military Forces; Decisions And Verdicts; Capitalism (Theory And Philosophy); Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Bankman Fried, Sam; E Commerce; Frauds And Swindling; International Relations; Digital Currency Group Inc; YoutubeCom; Virtual Reality (Computers); Gaza Strip; Stocks And Bonds; Hk Ftx Trading Ltd (Futures Exchange); Securities And Commodities Violations; Andreessen, Marc L; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Virtual Currency; United States International Relations; Freelancing, Self Employment And Independent Contracting; Meta Platforms Inc; Business; Nonfungible Tokens (Nfts); Start Ups; New York Times; Coinbase Inc; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: Silicon Valley Shrugs Off Sam Bankman-Fried’s Trial

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-03T22:17:32Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885667518

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-shrugs-off-sam-bankman-fried-s/docview/2885667518/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pressure to Speak Out Builds Online: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma; Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma; Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pressure-speak-out-builds-online/docview/2885417190/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Silence is viewed by many as its own statement. Posting, though, can come with costs, including angry outpourings and even personal attacks.
Deb Perelman, the best-selling cookbook author and creator of Smitten Kitchen, tends to focus her social media posts on her work, like pasta or chocolate chip cookie recipes. But days after Hamas attacked Israel, she called the violence "repugnant" on Instagram and expressed dread for "death and destruction now ahead on both sides."
Subsequently, she posted about her newborn niece and apple picking with her children. Her direct messages immediately filled with irate notes.
"How can you post a couple of paragraphs and go on about apple pies? You are Jewish," one user wrote. Another questioned why she "never once had a ping of conscience" about "70 years of brutal occupation." Someone else demanded she say more, adding that Ms. Perelman looked "exactly like one of the hostages in Gaza that are being tortured and raped."
"The fury in my DMs was unparalleled," Ms. Perelman said in an interview, adding that she had already received a torrent of messages criticizing her "silence" before she acknowledged the attacks. "There was a feeling that I was either condoning genocide or I wasn't calling it genocide when it happened, or I wasn't using enough incendiary language."
People who work across industries -- from famous online influencers to those with far less prominent online profiles, including a yoga teacher, an interior designer, and tech and real estate workers -- said in interviews that they faced an expectation to share their opinions about the war. The pressure is conveyed either explicitly or subtly from friends and followers. Silence is viewed by many as its own statement.
They said they realized, though, that posting came with costs, including angry outpourings and personal attacks. It's particularly complex for those, like Ms. Perelman, whose livelihoods depend on constantly updating their feeds on topics that don't often veer into the political.
Some people who have responded to the war publicly, particularly in support of Palestinian statehood, have faced professional repercussions, including members of Harvard student groups who were doxxed when those groups posted an open letter blaming Israel after Hamas's attacks. The editor of Artforum was fired after the magazine's staff published an open letter supporting Palestinian liberation, and the editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar faced calls to resign after saying the cutoff of water and electricity to civilians in Gaza was "the most inhuman thing I've seen in my life." She quickly apologized.
"You see so many posts and videos saying, 'Your silence is deafening' -- which is a very challenging thing to respond to," said Phoebe Lind, 24, who works at an energy start-up in Washington. She had not yet shared her opinions online about the war, though she was still weighing doing so.
Of course, many people see immense importance in posting on social media about the war. It signals support for communities being harmed and can educate followers, possibly sway decision makers and help with processing weighty emotions.
Social media feeds have focused on major news events many times before. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a uniquely thorny and divisive issue to navigate on social media, though, particularly for those not educated about the region or its history, or who are still forming their opinions.
Maddie Coppola, 25, is an interior designer in New York who typically uses Instagram to follow design trends and learn about new restaurants. Over the past two weeks, her feeds have become bifurcated, with some friends posting that they "stand with Israel" and others posting infographics about the humanitarian crisis in Gaza.
Ms. Coppola has avoided wading into discussions on social media, because, she said, she has struggled to find information that she trusts about the conflict, and she feels that her own views are evolving. She also worries about upsetting friends or colleagues with her posts.
"I don't want to bring this into my work life," Ms. Coppola said. "You have to tread very carefully, especially when you're coming from a place where you don't feel like you know very much about what's going on."
The complexity and scale of the conflict can feel, to some, almost impossible to distill in posts on Instagram and X. Many sense that their friends or relatives want them to post or repost some indication of their political leanings, yet they say anything they choose to share wouldn't capture the depth of their emotions or views.
"The current discussion of the issue feels very reductive," said Andrey Romanov, who works in communications for a university. "There's no room for nuance."
Nazhath Faheema, who is Muslim and works at an interfaith charity in Singapore, said she was profoundly aware of the conflict's impact on Muslim and Jewish communities. People of both faiths asked her to post about the war on social media, she said, and were sending her graphic images. Ms. Faheema, 38, said she had been trolled by some users asking her: "Are you even a Muslim?"
She instead opted to write a post about her decision to keep her views private as she took time to process her emotions.
"I cannot put into words the pain I've gone through" to decide to post on the topic, she said. "Worrying which friend is not going to be friends with me, worrying who's going to attack me and even wondering: Are people thinking that I am just a bad person?"
The speed with which social media cycles move can breed pressure to post about news events just hours after they occur, sometimes before there are many known facts about what happened. That is complicated by the fact that on Facebook and Instagram, the Stories feature disappears after 24 hours, prompting people to keep posting fresh content.
"Places like Instagram aren't designed for activism -- they're designed for people to engage in ads so that corporations can make money," said Minaa B., a social worker and author with more than 270,000 Instagram followers, who uses that name professionally. "The goal is to keep you posting and keep you engaged by continuously posting."
"It is not a space for nuance," she said, adding that she did not post about the war. "It is not a space that often cultivates healthy dialogue in conversation."
Witnessing the backlash toward people who have been outspoken, some social media users are posting candidly in the hopes that they will make members of their online communities feel safer and more comfortable disclosing their own views.
"A lot of people on LinkedIn don't speak up because they're like, 'Oh, this is a professional network,"' said Agneez Kang, 37, who is job searching after working in retail, She uses her LinkedIn profile to express concerns about civilian deaths in Gaza, which felt important to her as a "brown woman," she said.
"I posted knowing full on it could possibly affect my job prospects," Ms. Kang continued. "I don't want to work for a company that doesn't value free speech and would penalize me for speaking up on an important topic."
Ms. Perelman said she did not regret acknowledging the conflict. In this social environment, she said, "if people are going to be furious at me for something they think that I think, I'd rather they be furious at me for things I actually do think."
Ms. Perelman shared her experience with the hateful messages on Instagram and used it as a call for donations to World Central Kitchen, the global nonprofit organization that delivers fresh meals to people in need during crises, raising upward of $ 180,000. That, to her, showed that people wanted to pivot their helpless, frustrated energy into a productive place, she said.
"When you're public and you have open DMs, you're a lightning rod for this," she added. "I empathize with people, with all of us, who are hurting and don't know what to do with this frustration -- I just wish people understood that screaming into a cookbook author's DMs is not bringing the hostages home."
Yiwen Lu contributed reporting.
Yiwen Lu contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Emotions; Genocide; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Gaza Strip; Israel

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/02/business/social-media-israel-hamas-conflict.html

Title: Pressure to Speak Out Builds Online:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 3, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885417190

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pressure-speak-out-builds-online/docview/2885417190/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'21 Adams Run Under Scrutiny On Turkey Ties: [National Desk]

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Mays, Jeffery C

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Mays, Jeffery C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/21-adams-run-under-scrutiny-on-turkey-ties/docview/2885417182/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A raid at the home of Eric Adams's chief fund-raiser was part of an inquiry into whether foreign money was funneled into his mayoral campaign, a search warrant shows.
Federal prosecutors and the F.B.I. are conducting a broad public corruption investigation into whether Mayor Eric Adams's 2021 election campaign conspired with the Turkish government to receive illegal foreign donations, according to a search warrant obtained by The New York Times.
The investigation burst into public view on Thursday when federal agents conducted an early-morning raid at the Brooklyn home of the mayor's chief fund-raiser, Brianna Suggs. Ms. Suggs is a campaign consultant who is deeply entwined with efforts to advance the mayor's agenda.
Investigators also sought to learn more about the potential involvement of a Brooklyn construction company with ties to Turkey, as well as a small university in Washington, D.C., that also has ties to the country and to Mr. Adams.
According to the search warrant, investigators were also focused on whether the mayor's campaign kicked back benefits to the construction company's officials and employees, and to Turkish officials.
The agents seized three iPhones and two laptop computers, along with papers and other evidence, including something agents identified as "manila folder labeled Eric Adams," seven "contribution card binders" and other materials, according to the documents.
There was no indication that the investigation was targeting the mayor, and he is not accused of wrongdoing. Yet the raid apparently prompted him to abruptly cancel several meetings scheduled for Thursday morning in Washington, D.C., where he planned to speak with White House officials and members of Congress about the migrant crisis.
Instead, he hurriedly returned to New York "to deal with a matter," a spokesman for the mayor said.
Appearing at a Día de Muertos celebration at Gracie Mansion on Thursday night, Mr. Adams defended his campaign, saying that he held it "to the highest ethical standards."
He said he had not been contacted by any law enforcement officials, but pledged to cooperate in any inquiry. Mr. Adams said that he returned from Washington to be "on the ground" to "look at this inquiry" as it unfolded.
The warrant suggested that some of the foreign campaign contributions were made as part of a straw donor scheme, where donations are made in the names of people who did not actually give money. Investigators sought evidence to support potential charges that included the theft of federal funds and conspiracy to steal federal funds, wire fraud and wire fraud conspiracy, as well as campaign contributions by foreign nationals and conspiracy to make such contributions.
Mr. Adams has boasted of his ties to Turkey, most recently during a flag-raising he hosted for the country in Lower Manhattan last week. The mayor said that there were probably no other mayors in New York City history who had visited Turkey as frequently as he has.
"I think I'm on my sixth or seventh visit," he said. At least one of those visits happened while he was Brooklyn borough president, when the government of Turkey underwrote the excursion, The Daily News reported.
Ms. Suggs, who could not be reached for comment, is an essential cog in Mr. Adams's fund-raising machine, which has already raised more than $ 2.5 million for his 2025 re-election campaign.
A person with knowledge of the raid said agents from one of the public corruption squads in the F.B.I.'s New York office questioned Ms. Suggs during the search of her home.
An F.B.I. spokesman confirmed that "we are at that location carrying out law enforcement action," referring to Ms. Suggs's home in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn.
The agents also served Ms. Suggs with a subpoena directing her to testify before a federal grand jury hearing evidence in Manhattan.
Nicholas Biase, a spokesman for the federal prosecutor's office in Manhattan, declined to comment.
The construction company was identified in the warrant, portions of which were obtained by The Times, as KSK Construction Group in Brooklyn. Individuals who listed their employer as KSK donated nearly $ 14,000 to Mr. Adams's 2021 campaign, according to campaign finance records. A person who answered the telephone at the company declined to comment.
Charles Kretchmer Lutvak, a spokesman for Mr. Adams, said Ms. Suggs was not an employee of City Hall and referred calls to the mayor's campaign team.
"The campaign has always held itself to the highest standards," said Vito Pitta, a lawyer for Mr. Adams's 2021 and 2025 campaigns. "The campaign will of course comply with any inquiries, as appropriate."
Mr. Pitta added: "Mayor Adams has not been contacted as part of this inquiry."
The search warrant sought financial records for Ms. Suggs and any entity controlled or associated with her; documents related to contributions to the mayor's 2021 campaign; records of travel to Turkey by any employee, officer or associate of the campaign; and documents related to interactions between the campaign and the government of Turkey, "including persons acting at the behest of the Turkish government."
Investigators specified documents relating to Bay Atlantic University, a tiny Turkish-owned institution that opened in Washington, D.C., in 2014. The following year, Mr. Adams visited one of the school's sister universities in Istanbul, where he was given various certificates and was told that a scholarship would be created in his name.
The warrant also sought electronic devices, including cellphones, laptops or tablets used by Ms. Suggs.
Ms. Suggs, 25, is the latest in a series of individuals tied to Mr. Adams who have attracted interest from law enforcement, including several connected to the mayor's fund-raising efforts.
In September, Eric Ulrich, Mr. Adams's former buildings commissioner and senior adviser, was indicted by the Manhattan district attorney, Alvin Bragg, on 16 felony charges, including counts of conspiracy and bribetaking. Mr. Ulrich, as well as three others indicted at the time, helped organize a 2021 fund-raiser for Mr. Adams.
In July, Mr. Bragg indicted six individuals, including a retired police inspector who once worked and socialized with Mr. Adams, on charges of conspiring to funnel illegal donations to the mayor's 2021 campaign.
The Department of Investigation is also investigating the role of one of the mayor's top aides in a violent altercation last month at a migrant center in Manhattan.
Mr. Adams has tried to distance himself from these inquiries, arguing that he had limited insight into the events that precipitated them. But the investigation of such a close and longtime adviser might be harder to keep at arm's length.
In the past two years, Mr. Adams's re-election campaign has paid Ms. Suggs nearly $ 100,000 for fund-raising and campaign consulting services via her company, Suggs Solutions, according to city records.
His first mayoral campaign paid her more than $ 50,000.
Ms. Suggs has also registered as a lobbyist. State records indicate that the East Broadway Mall, a Chinatown real estate concern, hired Ms. Suggs, via an intermediary, to lobby the mayor's office and the City Council on its behalf in 2022.
Ms. Suggs worked as an aide to Mr. Adams when he was Brooklyn borough president, and is particularly close with Ingrid Lewis-Martin, who was his deputy at the time and is currently his top adviser.
Ms. Suggs is deeply embedded in outside efforts to advance the mayor's agenda. A key ally's political action committee, Striving for a Better New York, which promised to support state candidates aligned with Mr. Adams on policy matters, has paid Ms. Suggs roughly $ 100,000.
Ms. Suggs also lists the Brooklyn Democratic Party, with which Mr. Adams has close ties, as a client on her LinkedIn page.
Rodneyse Bichotte Hermelyn, the assemblywoman who leads the Brooklyn party, said Ms. Suggs was a volunteer fund-raiser who mainly handled logistics. She said she was surprised to learn of the F.B.I. raid.
"What I know of Brianna Suggs, she's a bright young lady. I think she's a very honest person, organized. She's very mild-mannered, a very professional person," Ms. Bichotte Hermelyn said. "She knows the rules."
Mr. Adams's decision to cancel high-level meetings with senior White House officials about an issue that he has warned will hollow out New York's budget and destroy the city suggested an unusual level of urgency.
The White House appeared to have been taken by surprise. The mayor's office called Thursday morning to inform them of the cancellation, a White House aide said.
"I can't speak to his schedule and why he had to, he could not attend," said Karine Jean-Pierre, the White House press secretary.
The mayor was scheduled to meet with representatives from Congress along with the mayor of Chicago, Brandon Johnson, and the mayor of Denver, Mike Johnston.
At 7:41 a.m. Thursday, Mr. Adams posted a video on X, formerly known as Twitter, of himself sitting aboard an airplane. He said he was heading to Washington to meet with White House officials and members of the congressional delegation about the migrant crisis, which he described as a "real issue."
The mayor promised to keep the public updated throughout the day, but after he canceled the meetings, officials at City Hall would not explain why. They said the meetings would be rescheduled.
By 8 a.m. Thursday, around 10 agents could be seen standing on Ms. Suggs's block, according to a video of the scene taken by a neighbor and viewed by The New York Times. One agent wore a light green tactical vest with the letters "F.B.I." stamped on the back. Another official could be seen leaving the apartment with a cardboard box.
Ms. Suggs was standing on the stoop with her father as the agents searched her home, according to the neighbor, Christopher Burwell.
"Whatever it is, she must have been tricked into it, because she's a great woman," Mr. Burwell said. "I've known her all my life."
Reporting was contributed by Emma G. Fitzsimmons, Michael D. Shear, Wesley Parnell, Michael Rothfeld, Rebecca Chao and Melissa Kravitz Hoeffner.
Reporting was contributed by Emma G. Fitzsimmons, Michael D. Shear, Wesley Parnell, Michael Rothfeld, Rebecca Chao and Melissa Kravitz Hoeffner.
Photograph Mayor Eric Adams scrapped his agenda in Washington and returned to New York City on Thursday to address "a matter." (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) This article appeared in print on page A1, A18.

Subject: Evidence; Wire fraud; Local elections; Federal funding; Law enforcement; Political finance; Meetings; Indictments; Campaign contributions; Donations; Mayors; Conspiracy; Criminal investigations; Search warrants; Corruption in government; Raids

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal funding Donations

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US; Washington DC

People: Adams, Eric

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/02/nyregion/eric-adams-brianna-suggs-fbi-raid.html

Title: '21 Adams Run Under Scrutiny On Turkey Ties:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885417182

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/21-adams-run-under-scrutiny-on-turkey-ties/docview/2885417182/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Investigating Whether Adams Received Illegal Donations From Turkey

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Mays, Jeffery C

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Mays, Jeffery C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-investigating-whether-adams-received-illegal/docview/2885372199/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Federal prosecutors and the FBI are conducting a broad public corruption investigation into whether Mayor Eric Adams’ 2021 election campaign conspired with the Turkish government to receive illegal foreign donations, according to a search warrant obtained by The New York Times.
The investigation burst into public view Thursday when federal agents conducted an early-morning raid at the Brooklyn home of the mayor’s chief fundraiser, Brianna Suggs. Suggs is a campaign consultant who is deeply entwined with efforts to advance the mayor’s agenda.
Investigators also sought to learn more about the potential involvement of a Brooklyn construction company with ties to Turkey, as well as a small university in Washington, D.C., that also has ties to the country and to Adams.
According to the search warrant, investigators were also focused on whether the mayor’s campaign kicked back benefits to the construction company’s officials and employees, and to Turkish officials.
The agents seized three iPhones and two laptop computers, along with papers and other evidence, including something agents identified as “manila folder labeled Eric Adams,” seven “contribution card binders” and other materials, according to the document.
There was no indication that the investigation was targeting the mayor, and he is not accused of wrongdoing. Yet the raid apparently prompted him to abruptly cancel several meetings scheduled for Thursday morning in Washington, D.C., where he planned to speak with White House officials and members of Congress about the migrant crisis.
Instead, he hurriedly returned to New York “to deal with a matter,” a spokesperson for the mayor said.
Appearing at a Día de Muertos celebration at Gracie Mansion on Thursday night, Adams defended his campaign, saying that he held it “to the highest ethical standards.”
He said he had not been contacted by any law enforcement officials but pledged to cooperate in any inquiry. Adams said that he returned from Washington to be “on the ground” to “look at this inquiry” as it unfolded.
The warrant suggested that some of the foreign campaign contributions were made as part of a straw donor scheme, in which donations are made in the names of people who did not actually give money. Investigators sought evidence to support potential charges that included the theft of federal funds and conspiracy to steal federal funds, wire fraud and wire fraud conspiracy, as well as campaign contributions by foreign nationals and conspiracy to make such contributions.
Adams has boasted of his ties to Turkey, most recently during a flag-raising he hosted for the country in lower Manhattan last week. The mayor said that there were probably no other mayors in New York City history who had visited Turkey as frequently as he has.
“I think I’m on my sixth or seventh visit,” he said. At least one of those visits happened while he was Brooklyn borough president, when the government of Turkey underwrote the excursion, The Daily News reported.
Suggs, who could not be reached for comment, is an essential cog in Adams’ fundraising machine, which has already raised more than $2.5 million for his 2025 reelection campaign.
A third person with knowledge of the raid said agents from one of the public corruption squads in the FBI’s New York office questioned Suggs during the search of her home.
An FBI spokesperson confirmed that “we are at that location carrying out law enforcement action,” referring to Suggs’ home in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn.
The agents also served Suggs with a subpoena directing her to testify before a federal grand jury hearing evidence in Manhattan.
Nicholas Biase, a spokesperson for the federal prosecutor’s office in Manhattan, declined to comment.
The construction company was identified in the warrant, portions of which were obtained by the Times, as KSK Construction Group in Brooklyn. Individuals who listed their employer as KSK donated nearly $14,000 to Adams’ 2021 campaign, according to campaign finance records. A person who answered the telephone at the company declined to comment.
Charles Kretchmer Lutvak, a spokesperson for Adams, said that Suggs was not an employee of City Hall and referred calls to the mayor’s campaign team.
“The campaign has always held itself to the highest standards,” said Vito Pitta, a lawyer for Adams’ 2021 and 2025 campaigns. “The campaign will of course comply with any inquiries, as appropriate.”
Pitta added: “Mayor Adams has not been contacted as part of this inquiry.”
The search warrant sought financial records for Suggs and any entity controlled or associated with her; documents related to contributions to the mayor’s 2021 campaign; records of travel to Turkey by any employee, officer or associate of the campaign; and documents related to interactions between the campaign and the government of Turkey, “including persons acting at the behest of the Turkish government.”
Investigators specified documents relating to Bay Atlantic University, a tiny Turkish-owned institution that opened in Washington, D.C., in 2014. The following year, Adams visited one of the school’s sister universities in Istanbul, where he was given various certificates and was told that a scholarship would be created in his name.
The warrant also sought electronic devices, including cellphones, laptops or tablets used by Suggs.
Suggs, 25, is the latest in a series of individuals tied to Adams who have attracted interest from law enforcement, including several connected to the mayor’s fundraising efforts.
In September, Eric Ulrich, Adams’ former buildings commissioner and senior adviser, was indicted by the Manhattan district attorney, Alvin Bragg, on 16 felony charges, including counts of conspiracy and bribe-taking. Ulrich, as well as three others indicted at the time, helped organize a 2021 fundraiser for Adams.
In July, Bragg indicted six individuals, including a retired police inspector who once worked and socialized with Adams, on charges of conspiring to funnel illegal donations to the mayor’s 2021 campaign.
The Department of Investigation is also reviewing the role of one of the mayor’s top aides in a violent altercation last month at a migrant center in Manhattan.
Adams has tried to distance himself from these inquiries, arguing that he had limited insight into the events that precipitated them. But the investigation of such a close and longtime adviser might be harder to keep at arm’s length.
In the past two years, Adams’ reelection campaign has paid Suggs nearly $100,000 for fundraising and campaign consulting services via her company, Suggs Solutions, according to city records.
His first mayoral campaign paid her more than $50,000.
Suggs has also registered as a lobbyist. State records indicate that the East Broadway Mall, a Chinatown real estate concern, hired Suggs, via an intermediary, to lobby the mayor’s office and the New York City Council on its behalf in 2022.
Suggs worked as an aide to Adams when he was Brooklyn borough president and is particularly close with Ingrid Lewis-Martin, who was his deputy at the time and is currently his top adviser.
Suggs is deeply embedded in outside efforts to advance the mayor’s agenda. A key ally’s political action committee, Striving for a Better New York, which promised to support state candidates aligned with Adams on policy matters, has paid Suggs roughly $100,000.
Suggs also lists the Brooklyn Democratic Party, with which Adams is close, as a client on her LinkedIn page.
Rodneyse Bichotte Hermelyn, the Assembly member who leads the Brooklyn party, said Suggs was a volunteer fundraiser who mainly handled logistics. She said she was surprised to learn of the FBI raid.
“What I know of Brianna Suggs, she’s a bright, young lady. I think she’s a very honest person, organized. She’s very mild-mannered, a very professional person,” Bichotte Hermelyn said. “She knows the rules.”
Adams’ decision to cancel high-level meetings with senior White House officials about an issue he has warned will hollow out New York’s budget and destroy the city suggested an unusual level of urgency.
The White House appeared to have been taken by surprise. The mayor’s office called Thursday morning to inform them of the cancellation, a White House aide said.
“I can’t speak to his schedule and why he had to, he could not attend,” said Karine Jean-Pierre, the White House press secretary.
The mayor was scheduled to meet with representatives from Congress along with the mayor of Chicago, Brandon Johnson, and the mayor of Denver, Mike Johnston.
At 7:41 a.m. Thursday, Adams posted a video on X, formerly known as Twitter, of himself sitting aboard an airplane. He said he was heading to Washington to meet with White House officials and members of the congressional delegation about the migrant crisis, which he described as a “real issue.”
The mayor promised to keep the public updated throughout the day, but after he canceled the meetings, officials at City Hall would not explain why. They said the meetings would be rescheduled.
By 8 a.m. Thursday, around 10 agents could be seen standing on Suggs’ block, according to a video of the scene taken by a neighbor and viewed by The New York Times. One agent wore a light green tactical vest with the letters “FBI” stamped on the back. Another official could be seen leaving the apartment with a cardboard box.
Suggs was standing on the stoop with her father as the agents searched her home, according to the neighbor, Christopher Burwell.
“Whatever it is, she must have been tricked into it, because she’s a great woman,” Burwell said. “I’ve known her all my life.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fund raising; Evidence; Wire fraud; Federal funding; Law enforcement; Political finance; Meetings; Campaign contributions; Indictments; Donations; Mayors; Conspiracy; Criminal investigations; Search warrants

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal funding Donations

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US; Washington DC; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Police Department (Nyc); Johnson, Brandon (Chicago, Ill, Politician); Politics And Government; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Brooklyn (Nyc); Labor And Jobs; Rashbaum, William K; Names, Organizational; Ethics And Official Misconduct; New York City; Levy, Fabien; United States; Chinatown (Manhattan, Ny); Linkedin Corporation; Elections, Mayors; City Council (Nyc); Elections; Philanthropy; Striving For A Better New York (Political Action Committee); Lewis Martin, Ingrid P; Bragg, Alvin; Gifts To Public Officials; United States Politics And Government; Turkey; Discrimination; Department Of Investigation (Nyc); Bribery And Kickbacks; Scholarships And Fellowships; Foreign Investments; Computers And The Internet; Law And Legislation; Istanbul (Turkey); News And News Media; Frauds And Swindling; Local Government; Bichotte, Rodneyse; Crown Heights (Brooklyn, Ny); Corruption (Institutional); Twitter; Search And Seizure; Jean Pierre, Karine; East Broadway (Manhattan, Ny); New York State; Federal Aid (Us); Illegal Immigration; Adams, Eric L; Real Estate (Commercial); Newspapers; Suggs, Brianna; Laptop Computers; Ulrich, Eric A; New York Daily News; Gracie Mansion (Manhattan, Ny); Building (Construction); Shopping Centers And Malls; Washington (Dc); Chicago (Ill); Colleges And Universities; Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority; Campaign Finance; New York Times

Title: U.S. Investigating Whether Adams Received Illegal Donations From Turkey

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-03T00:49:21Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885372199

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-investigating-whether-adams-received-illegal/docview/2885372199/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

FBI Raids Home of Eric Adams’ Fundraising Chief

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Mays, Jeffery C

Publication info: Rashbaum, William K; Rubinstein, Dana; Mays, Jeffery C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fbi-raids-home-eric-adams-fundraising-chief/docview/2885372200/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Agents from the FBI on Thursday searched the Brooklyn home of Mayor Eric Adams’ chief fundraiser, Brianna Suggs, a campaign consultant who is deeply entwined with efforts to advance the mayor’s agenda, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.
The early morning raid was part of a broad public corruption investigation by the FBI and federal prosecutors in Manhattan into whether Adams’ 2021 mayoral campaign conspired with a Brooklyn construction company and the Turkish government to funnel foreign money into the campaign’s coffers, apparently through a straw donor scheme, according to portions of the search warrant obtained by The New York Times.
The warrant sought evidence of the theft of federal funds and conspiracy to steal federal funds, wire fraud and wire fraud conspiracy, as well as campaign contributions by foreign nationals and conspiracy to make such contributions. Investigators were particularly interested in whether the campaign kicked back benefits to the construction company’s officials and employees and to Turkish officials.
While it was unclear from the records whether the investigation is targeting the mayor, the raid apparently prompted him to abruptly cancel several meetings scheduled for Thursday morning in Washington, D.C., where he planned to speak with White House officials and members of Congress about the migrant crisis.
Instead, he hurriedly returned to New York “to deal with a matter,” a spokesperson for the mayor said.
Adams has boasted of his ties to Turkey, most recently during a flag-raising he hosted for the country in lower Manhattan last week. The mayor said that there were probably no other mayors in New York City history who had visited Turkey as frequently as he has.
“I think I’m on my sixth or seventh visit,” he said. At least one of those visits happened while he was Brooklyn borough president, when the government of Turkey reportedly underwrote the excursion.
Suggs, who could not be reached for comment, is an essential cog in Adams’ fundraising machine, which has already raised more than $2.5 million for his 2025 reelection campaign.
A third person with knowledge of the raid said agents from one of the public corruption squads in the FBI’s New York office questioned Suggs during the search of her home.
An FBI spokesperson confirmed that “we are at that location carrying out law enforcement action,” referring to Suggs’ home in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn.
The agents also served Suggs with a subpoena directing her to testify before a federal grand jury hearing evidence in Manhattan.
Nicholas Biase, a spokesperson for the federal prosecutor’s office in Manhattan, declined to comment.
The construction company was identified in the warrant as KSK Construction Group in Brooklyn. Individuals who listed their employer as KSK donated nearly $14,000 to Adams’ 2021 campaign, according to campaign finance records. A person who answered the telephone at the company declined to comment.
Charles Kretchmer Lutvak, a spokesperson for Adams, denied any knowledge of the raid.
“I’m not aware of that,” Lutvak said.
He added that Suggs was not an employee of City Hall and referred calls to the mayor’s campaign team.
“The campaign has always held itself to the highest standards,” said Vito Pitta, a lawyer for Adams’ 2021 and 2025 campaigns. “The campaign will of course comply with any inquiries, as appropriate.”
Pitta added: “Mayor Adams has not been contacted as part of this inquiry.”
The search warrant sought financial records for Suggs and any entity controlled or associated with her; documents related to contributions to the mayor’s 2021 campaign; records of travel to Turkey by any employee, officer or associate of the campaign; and documents related to interactions between the campaign and the government of Turkey, “including persons acting at the behest of the Turkish government.”
The warrant also sought electronic devices, including cellphones, laptops or tablets used by Suggs.
Suggs, 25, is the latest in a series of individuals tied to Adams who have attracted interest from law enforcement, including several with fundraising connections.
In September, Eric Ulrich, Adams’ former buildings commissioner and senior adviser, was indicted by the Manhattan district attorney, Alvin Bragg, on 16 felony charges, including counts of conspiracy and bribe-taking. Ulrich, as well as three others indicted at the time, helped organize a 2021 fundraiser for Adams.
In July, Bragg indicted six individuals, including a retired police inspector who once worked and socialized with Adams, for conspiring to funnel illegal donations to the mayor’s 2021 campaign.
The Department of Investigation is also reviewing the role of one of the mayor’s top aides in a violent altercation last month at a migrant center in Manhattan.
Adams has tried to distance himself from these inquiries in the past, arguing that he has limited insight into the events that precipitated them. But the investigation of such a close and longtime adviser might be harder to keep at arm’s length.
In the past two years, Adams’ reelection campaign has paid Suggs nearly $100,000 for fundraising and campaign consulting services via her company, Suggs Solutions, according to city records.
His first mayoral campaign paid her more than $50,000.
Suggs has also registered as a lobbyist. State records indicate that the East Broadway Mall, a Chinatown real estate concern, hired Suggs, via an intermediary, to lobby the mayor’s office and the New York City Council on its behalf in 2022.
Suggs worked as an aide to Adams when he was Brooklyn borough president and is particularly close with Ingrid Lewis-Martin, who was his deputy at the time and is currently his top adviser.
Suggs is deeply embedded in outside efforts to advance the mayor’s agenda. A key ally’s political action committee, Striving for a Better New York, that promised to support state candidates aligned with Adams on policy matters, has paid Suggs roughly $100,000.
Suggs also lists the Brooklyn Democratic Party, with which Adams is close, as a client on her LinkedIn page.
Rodneyse Bichotte Hermelyn, the Assembly member who leads the party, said Suggs was a volunteer fundraiser for it who mainly handled logistics. She said she was surprised to learn of the FBI raid.
“What I know of Brianna Suggs, she’s a bright, young lady. I think she’s a very honest person, organized. She’s very mild-mannered, a very professional person,” Bichotte Hermelyn said. “She knows the rules.”
Adams’ decision to cancel high-level meetings with senior White House officials about an issue he has warned will hollow out New York’s budget and destroy the city suggested an unusual level of urgency.
The White House appeared to have been taken by surprise. The mayor’s office called Thursday morning to inform them of the cancellation, a White House aide said.
“I can’t speak to his schedule and why he had to, he could not attend,” said Karine Jean-Pierre, the White House press secretary.
The mayor was scheduled to meet with representatives from Congress along with the mayor of Chicago, Brandon Johnson, and the mayor of Denver, Mike Johnston.
Adams posted a video on X, formerly known as Twitter, at 7:41 a.m. Thursday of himself sitting aboard an airplane. He said he was heading to Washington to meet with White House officials and members of the congressional delegation about the migrant crisis, which he described as a “real issue.”
Adams promised to keep the public updated throughout the day, but after he canceled the meetings, officials at City Hall would not explain why.
“The mayor is returning to New York City to address a matter,” Lutvak, the mayor’s spokesperson, said in an email when asked why Adams was suddenly returning to the city. “These meetings will be rescheduled as soon as possible.”
Asked whether the matter was a personal issue or related to City Hall, officials refused to elaborate.
“He is returning to deal with a matter,” Lutvak said.
By 8 a.m. Thursday, around 10 agents could be seen standing on Suggs’ block, according to a video of the scene taken by a neighbor and viewed by The New York Times. One agent wore a light green tactical vest with the letters “FBI” stamped on the back. Another official could be seen leaving the apartment with a cardboard box.
Suggs was standing on the stoop with her father as the agents searched her home, according to the neighbor, Christopher Burwell.
“Whatever it is, she must have been tricked into it, because she’s a great woman,” Burwell said. “I’ve known her all my life.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fund raising; Wire fraud; Federal funding; Law enforcement; Political finance; Meetings; Campaign contributions; Indictments; Donations; Mayors; Conspiracy; Criminal investigations; Search warrants

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal funding Donations

Location: Turkey; New York; United States--US; New York City New York

People: Adams, Eric

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Police Department (Nyc); Johnson, Brandon (Chicago, Ill, Politician); New York City; Politics And Government; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Brooklyn (Nyc); Bribery And Kickbacks; Foreign Investments; Ulrich, Eric A; Labor And Jobs; Rashbaum, William K; United States; Chinatown (Manhattan, Ny); Linkedin Corporation; Elections, Mayors; City Council (Nyc); Philanthropy; Striving For A Better New York (Political Action Committee); Lewis Martin, Ingrid P; Bragg, Alvin; Gifts To Public Officials; United States Politics And Government; Discrimination; Department Of Investigation (Nyc); Law And Legislation; Frauds And Swindling; Local Government; Bichotte, Rodneyse; Crown Heights (Brooklyn, Ny); Corruption (Institutional); Twitter; Search And Seizure; Jean Pierre, Karine; East Broadway (Manhattan, Ny); New York State; Federal Aid (Us); Illegal Immigration; Adams, Eric L; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Building (Construction); Shopping Centers And Malls; Washington (Dc); Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority; Chicago (Ill); Campaign Finance; New York Times

Title: FBI Raids Home of Eric Adams’ Fundraising Chief

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 2, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-02T21:24:08Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885372200

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fbi-raids-home-eric-adams-fundraising-chief/docview/2885372200/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2023

Last updated: 2024-09-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Disinformation's Impact on the Workplace: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/disinformations-impact-on-workplace/docview/2883190459/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A peaceful end to the war in Ukraine. That was the wish behind a post that Simge Krüger made on LinkedIn in March.
In response, people began posting their wishes that her husband, father and brother be killed in combat. Seeing that she lived in Germany, they called her a Nazi.
"I was just talking about peace and I'm suddenly a Nazi," Ms. Krüger, a Turkish citizen who lives in Hamburg, said in an interview.
Weeks later, sitting in a workshop led by a pro-democracy organization, she came to understand what happened in that dizzying moment. The insults had nothing to do with her ethnic background or political leanings. The people targeting her comment were trying to whip up emotion and further polarize a world torn over issues like Russia's war in Ukraine, gender identity and climate change.
The best way to resist, she was taught in the class, was not by trying to explain her position or defend herself, but by asking probing questions.
"People who believe conspiracy theories usually just have one line of argumentation, but there's nothing behind it," she said. "When you start carving into their iceberg, you quickly realize that it has no depth."
These lessons came from an eight-week program offered by her employer, Hays, a multinational recruitment firm with 3,500 employees in Germany. The company said the project dovetailed its own aim of strengthening democratic values and making their employees more resilient.
Across Germany, several hundred companies have taken part in such workshops, and similar classes are being held in other Western countries, including the United States. Businesses are finding they need to bolster their employees in the face of increasingly vitriolic political debate. Seminars on civics and democratic principles -- such as the importance of voting or recognizing the dangers of disinformation, conspiracy theories and hate speech -- have become a way to ensure healthier relationships at the workplace, and in society at large. In addition, reports show that economic growth is higher in stable democracies, and liberal border policies allow companies to attract skilled immigrants.
Since the initial offering that Ms. Krüger took part in, Hays has trained more individual employees and incorporated elements of the workshops into its companywide mandatory training, said Mimoza Murseli, a project coordinator for diversity and inclusion at Hays.
Being schooled in how to recognize and respond to hate speech and misinformation has made employees more self-assured in doing their jobs, Ms. Murseli said.
"We gained confidence in standing our ground."
Groups like the Business Council for Democracy and Weltoffenes Sachsen in Germany and Civic Alliance or the Leadership Now Project in the United States organize workshops like the one Ms. Krüger took part in, provide research and webinars, and support civic education and get-out-the-vote efforts -- all of it nonpartisan. Most are nonprofit organizations, backed by independent foundations or a group of businesses that rely on their political independence as a selling point.
In Germany, the Network for Democracy and Courage has offered various workshops on civics and democracy to schools and young people for over two decades. But five years ago, it was approached by a group of businesses in the eastern state of Saxony, where far-right politicians have been attracting more followers.
A key principle of the workshops was that they be voluntary for employees, said Nina Gbur, the organization's project manager. They also have to be ideologically neutral, and not target any group or members of a given political party.
"It's not like companies come to us and say, 'We have a section where three racists are sitting,"' Ms. Gbur said. "That would be completely unrealistic."
When harsh language is 'just not acceptable.'
Germany is far from reaching the levels of political polarization that have wracked the United States. But the arrival of more than 1 million immigrants in 2015 and 2016 has inflamed debate.
Over this time, a far-right party, the Alternative for Germany, or AfD, has disrupted the country's political landscape with its embrace of nationalist, anti-immigration policies. Known for pushing boundaries and a more confrontational, aggressive style of politics, the AfD is gaining support; a recent poll showed more than one in five Germans supporting the party, up from 10 percent in the 2021 election.
Reflecting this shift, the tone in public discourse has become more raw. Kerstin Schultheiss, a managing director at the Leipziger Gruppe, noticed it in her company, which employs 5,000 people who provide public services in the city of Leipzig.
Several managers told her of increased tensions among employees as well as in their dealings with the public. Common flash points were the origins of the coronavirus pandemic, government mandates to conserve energy or Russia's war in Ukraine. Employees were subject to harsh comments that went beyond a typical disagreement or a complaint, she said, especially those who deal with the public, like tram drivers.
"There are simply people who think differently and express this difference in a way that is just not acceptable," Ms. Schultheiss said.
When she heard about the civics training offered by the Business Council for Democracy, she applied to participate.
"We have to create a space where all employees feel comfortable and create a working environment in which they can function and work well, and in which they are not harassed by anyone because of their political views," Ms. Schultheiss said.
The training offerings vary. In Germany, media literacy has been a critical issue, while programs in the United States are frequently focused on teaching employees about how the government works and voting rights. But their basic premise is to empower employees to understand how their actions, both in and out of the workplace, affect the political climate and, ultimately, their own jobs.
At Nomos Glashütte, a maker of luxury watches based in Saxony, company leaders worry that if the AfD were to come to power, customers and potential employees could be repelled, threatening their business.
"Democracy is the basis of our entrepreneurial activity," said Judith Borowski, managing director of Nomos, which offers its employees civics workshops. "And if we no longer have democracy, then the basis for our entrepreneurial activities will also be very curtailed."
How the 'ah-ha' effect can change discourse.
The idea behind the Business Council for Democracy workshops is to fill gaps in workers' knowledge of the basic underpinnings of the democratic system, especially in a digital civic culture. The programs teach how to recognize and question conspiracy theories and disinformation, aiming to reinforce personal responsibility and resilience against polarizing content.
Debate is an essential part of the program and all workshops remain strictly confidential. What is said in the room, stays in the room, to foster a space where people can be open and vulnerable. Some are held in-person but most are online, which is easier for people who work shifts.
Sessions are run once a week for eight weeks, during working hours. A trained mediator brings up a topic to discuss. In the case of recognizing disinformation, the mediator might show examples of comments or images that have circulated on social media.
For example, during the pandemic in 2020, when government lockdowns prevented Germans from socializing and holiday festivities were canceled, a photograph started making the rounds showing several prominent politicians standing shoulder to shoulder, smiling and sharing mugs of hot mulled wine, with commentary expressing the idea that those making the rules were allowed to break them, while others were not.
After discussing the image, participants were shown how to check when it was taken. In the case of the merrymaking politicians, it turned out to be from 2019, the year before the pandemic.
"For the training, we use very concrete examples to make it really clear what is happening, how they are being used," said Susann Planert, a personnel policy specialist at Leipziger who is trained to lead the workshops.
Another example she likes to use is taking an image of an article from one of the country's major news outlets and running it through a digital tool that lets a user alter the wording in the headline. A screenshot of the new version with an altered outrageous or inflammatory headline can then quickly be posted on social media.
"Such a technical gimmick can have a huge impact," she said. "Every time I do this in a training session, it has an 'ah-ha' effect because it makes obvious how easy it is to manipulate information."
Making an investment in future security.
The lack of civics understanding among employees has come to the attention of businesses in both Germany and the United States in recent years.
In Germany, the focus is particularly acute in the former East German regions, where democracy has only been around since Germany reunified in 1990. In the United States, surveys point to declining civics understanding among adults.Both situations translate to weaker social discourse and faith in public institutions.
Employers are realizing they are in a unique position to fill information gaps. According to the Pew Research Center, only 17 percent of Americans trust officials in power in Washington to do the right thing. But business is viewed as the one institution that is both ethical and competent, according the Edelman Trust Barometer.
Many younger people now expect their employers to champion civic causes, said Steven Levine, director of the Civic Alliance, a nonpartisan coalition in the United States of over 1,300 businesses including Microsoft, McDonald's, Target and Ecolab.
"Companies have seen themselves in recent years as an important collective stabilizing force in helping ensure that the norms of democracy are upheld," Mr. Levine said.
Misinformation can rattle markets. In May, an image generated by artificial intelligence showing black smoke billowing near the Pentagon briefly sent stocks tumbling. But a big focus of employers in the United States has been turning out the vote. Mr. Levine cited companies like Patagonia that close stores and offices on Election Day to allow employees to vote and volunteer at polls, and the National Basketball Association's decision to have all 30 teams play the day before Election Day 2022, using the opportunity to encourage fans to vote, and not scheduling any games on the next day.
As next year's presidential election approaches, companies are concerned about the potential for instability, said Daniella Ballou-Aares, chief executive of the Leadership Now Project, an organization of U.S. business leaders dedicated to promoting and protecting democracy.
She cited the legal battle between Disney and Florida's governor, Ron DeSantis, and the blowback Delta Air Lines faced from from customers over its response to legislation restricting voting in Georgia.
.
Something similar happened to Nomos, the German watch maker. In 2018, an angry mob led by far-right politicians held a protest in a city not far the company's headquarters, chanting slogans against immigrants and chasing dark-skinned bystanders. News footage of the disturbance was seen by customers as far away as New York, who called the company to express alarm.
"We had a feeling that politics like this could become a stark location disadvantage," said Ms. Borowski, the managing director. Fearing corrosive ideas could spread among its employees, the company began offering civics workshops.
As markets and policymakers struggle with wars in Europe and the Middle East, instability in one leading country is bound to reverberate across others, Ms. Ballou-Aares said.
"If you see a disruption in democracy in a major economy," she said, "it's going to be a big deal."
Photograph Above, a demonstration led by a right-wing group in Chemnitz, Germany, in 2018. Below, Susann Planert, left, and Kerstin Schultheiss of the Leipziger Gruppe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DPA PICTURE ALLIANCE/ALAMY; INGMAR NOLTING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6); Above, a photograph of German state leaders that was taken in 2019 and later circulated online as part of misinformation claiming that the gathering occurred during pandemic lockdowns. Right, right-wing demonstrators last month in Leipzig. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SVEN BRAUN/PICTURE ALLIANCE, VIA GETTY IMAGES; INGMAR NOLTING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Councils; Workshops; Politics; Employees; Employment; Pandemics; Social networks; False information; Conspiracy; Hate speech; Democracy; Politicians

Business indexing term: Subject: Workshops Employees Employment Social networks

Location: Russia; United States--US; Germany; Ukraine

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/27/world/europe/businesses-civics-education.html

Title: Disinformation's Impac t on the Workplace:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 29, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883190459

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/disinformations-impact-on-workplace/docview/2883190459/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Brought Their Brooklyn Budget and Puzzle-Solving Skills to the Jersey Suburbs: [Real Estate]

Author: Callimachi, Rukmini

Publication info: Callimachi, Rukmini. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-brought-their-brooklyn-budget-puzzle-solving/docview/2883190393/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Shannon Nitroy-Saia describes herself in her LinkedIn profile as "a naturally curious data person with a love for solving puzzles." Ms. Nitroy-Saia, 31, and her husband, Joe Saia, 32, like to tackle complicated board games -- the kind that require two hours to read the instructions and an hour to explain them to the other players, she joked.
This year, the couple found themselves trying to solve a tantalizing puzzle when they began searching for homes.
The couple, who work as data analytics managers (she for Spotify, he for the start-up Perry Health), met a decade ago as research assistants at the Federal Reserve in Washington. Both played (badly, she says) on the Fed's softball team. Mr. Saia was immediately smitten, "even when we were sweaty and dirty in gym clothes," he said.
To impress her, he invited her for dinner and baked her a chocolate fudge cake. They dated long-distance for nearly a year after Mr. Saia moved to New York to pursue a doctorate in economics at Columbia. She joined him in the city in 2021, and they married in 2022.
At 800 square feet, their one-bedroom Downtown Brooklyn rental was spacious by New York standards, but working from home meant sharing space at the kitchen counter or a corner of the "dining-room-slash-living-room-slash-kitchen," she said.
The first piece in the new puzzle came in January, when they helped friends paint their home in West Orange, N.J., a bedroom community 20 miles west of Manhattan. On the drive home, they passed houses whose exteriors suggested an abundance of space.
They set a budget of $ 600,000 to $ 800,000 in a town where the median single-family home was going for the high $ 500,000s. The goal was to find a house with at least four bedrooms that was close to New York City transit options. (Her office is in the World Trade Center; his is in Chelsea.)
Their real estate agent, Larry Weiss, with Weiss Luxury Group of eXp Realty, said they had one big thing going for them: They were willing to buy a house that needed work. "Most young people these days, they don't want to do anything," Mr. Weiss said. "They want to just move in."
Among their options:
This six-bedroom, four-bathroom 1905 colonial in West Orange had a wood-paneled office with a fireplace, a vaulted ceiling with a skylight in the primary bedroom and a big rear deck. The spiral staircase matched one of the coolest features of their Brooklyn apartment. The asking price was $ 775,000, with annual taxes of about $ 21,000.
On paper, this three-bedroom, three-bathroom 1967 ranch, on a West Orange cul-de-sac, looked as if it might be too small. But behind the brick facade was a spacious home with nooks that could be converted to offices. The interior was dated; the kitchen and bathrooms needed full renovations. The basement and the sweeping attic were unfinished. The asking price was $ 625,000, with annual taxes of about $ 20,000.
At $ 949,500, this five-bedroom, three-bathroom house in South Orange stretched the couple's budget. It had been fully renovated and was move-in ready, with a big kitchen, a new roof and a finished basement. The annual taxes were about $ 16,000.
On their first scouting trip, the couple found the West Orange colonial. Just as they were about to make an offer, the sellers said that they planned to rent it out instead.
Weeks passed before they found the renovated five-bedroom in South Orange. Proximity to the train was a major perk, although the recent top-to-bottom renovation meant they wouldn't be able to put their own touches on the property. The couple made an offer that was accepted. But a higher bid came in and the seller pivoted.
In March, they spotted the three-bedroom in West Orange. Its main floor was move-in ready, but the property offered a true D.I.Y. challenge.
They made an offer for $ 676,000, $ 51,000 over the asking price. When Mr. Weiss called to say their bid had won, "I felt a sense of disbelief that we actually got the house after being disappointed before," Mr. Saia said.
The couple moved in this spring and quickly carved out two offices, primary and guest bedrooms, and even a workout studio. The attic level is walled off until they're ready to tackle the renovation. Once they do, it will nearly double the square footage.
Their puzzle ended almost exactly where it began: The friends who inspired their search live a five-minute drive away.

Subject: Renovation & restoration

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/10/26/realestate/brooklyn-ny-nj-home-essex-county.html

Title: They Brought Their Brooklyn Budget and Puzzle-Solving Skills to the Jersey Suburbs:   [Real Estate ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 29, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883190393

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-brought-their-brooklyn-budget-puzzle-solving/docview/2883190393/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Brought Their Brooklyn Budget and Puzzle-Solving Skills to the Jersey Suburbs: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Callimachi, Rukmini

Publication info: Callimachi, Rukmini. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-brought-their-brooklyn-budget-puzzle-solving/docview/2883190371/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Shannon Nitroy-Saia describes herself in her LinkedIn profile as "a naturally curious data person with a love for solving puzzles." Ms. Nitroy-Saia, 31, and her husband, Joe Saia, 32, like to tackle complicated board games -- the kind that require two hours to read the instructions and an hour to explain them to the other players, she joked.
This year, the couple found themselves trying to solve a tantalizing puzzle when they began searching for homes.
The couple, who work as data analytics managers (she for Spotify, he for the start-up Perry Health), met a decade ago as research assistants at the Federal Reserve in Washington. Both played (badly, she says) on the Fed's softball team. Mr. Saia was immediately smitten, "even when we were sweaty and dirty in gym clothes," he said.
To impress her, he invited her for dinner and baked her a chocolate fudge cake. They dated long-distance for nearly a year after Mr. Saia moved to New York to pursue a doctorate in economics at Columbia. She joined him in the city in 2021, and they married in 2022.
At 800 square feet, their one-bedroom Downtown Brooklyn rental was spacious by New York standards, but working from home meant sharing space at the kitchen counter or a corner of the "dining-room-slash-living-room-slash-kitchen," she said.
The first piece in the new puzzle came in January, when they helped friends paint their home in West Orange, N.J., a bedroom community 20 miles west of Manhattan. On the drive home, they passed houses whose exteriors suggested an abundance of space.
They set a budget of $ 600,000 to $ 800,000 in a town where the median single-family home was going for the high $ 500,000s. The goal was to find a house with at least four bedrooms that was close to New York City transit options. (Her office is in the World Trade Center; his is in Chelsea.)
Their real estate agent, Larry Weiss, with Weiss Luxury Group of eXp Realty, said they had one big thing going for them: They were willing to buy a house that needed work. "Most young people these days, they don't want to do anything," Mr. Weiss said. "They want to just move in."
Among their options:
1. Six-Bedroom With Spiral Staircase
This six-bedroom, four-bathroom 1905 colonial in West Orange had a wood-paneled office with a fireplace, a vaulted ceiling with a skylight in the primary bedroom and a big rear deck. The spiral staircase matched one of the coolest features of their Brooklyn apartment. The asking price was $ 775,000, with annual taxes of about $ 21,000.
2. Ranch With Raw Second Story
On paper, this three-bedroom, three-bathroom 1967 ranch, on a West Orange cul-de-sac, looked as if it might be too small. But behind the brick facade was a spacious home with nooks that could be converted to offices. The interior was dated; the kitchen and bathrooms needed full renovations. The basement and the sweeping attic were unfinished. The asking price was $ 625,000, with annual taxes of about $ 20,000.
3. Renovated Five-Bedroom
At $ 949,500, this five-bedroom, three-bathroom house in South Orange stretched the couple's budget. It had been fully renovated and was move-in ready, with a big kitchen, a new roof and a finished basement. The annual taxes were about $ 16,000.
Their Choice
On their first scouting trip, the couple found the West Orange colonial. Just as they were about to make an offer, the sellers said that they planned to rent it out instead.
Weeks passed before they found the renovated five-bedroom in South Orange. Proximity to the train was a major perk, although the recent top-to-bottom renovation meant they wouldn't be able to put their own touches on the property. The couple made an offer that was accepted. But a higher bid came in and the seller pivoted.
In March, they spotted the three-bedroom in West Orange. Its main floor was move-in ready, but the property offered a true D.I.Y. challenge.
They made an offer for $ 676,000, $ 51,000 over the asking price. When Mr. Weiss called to say their bid had won, "I felt a sense of disbelief that we actually got the house after being disappointed before," Mr. Saia said.
The couple moved in this spring and quickly carved out two offices, primary and guest bedrooms, and even a workout studio. The attic level is walled off until they're ready to tackle the renovation. Once they do, it will nearly double the square footage.
Their puzzle ended almost exactly where it began: The friends who inspired their search live a five-minute drive away.
Email thehunt@nytimes.com
Photograph The Buyers: Shannon Nitroy-Saia and Joe Saia in New Jersey (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAANSI SRIVASTAVA/THE NEW YORK TIMES); The Options This article appeared in print on page RE4.

Subject: Renovation & restoration

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/25/realestate/they-brought-their-brooklyn-budget-and-puzzle-solving-skills-to-the-jersey-suburbs.html

Title: They Brought Their Brooklyn Budget and Puzzle-Solving Skills to the Jersey Suburbs:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 29, 2023

column: The Hunt

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883190371

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-brought-their-brooklyn-budget-puzzle-solving/docview/2883190371/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A New Place to Learn Civics: The Workplace

Author: Eddy, Melissa

Publication info: Eddy, Melissa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-place-learn-civics-workplace/docview/2883328014/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LEIPZIG, Germany — A peaceful end to the war in Ukraine. That was the wish behind a post that Simge Krüger made on LinkedIn in March.
In response, people began posting their wishes that her husband, father and brother be killed in combat. Seeing that she lived in Germany, they called her a Nazi.
“I was just talking about peace, and I’m suddenly a Nazi,” Krüger, a Turkish citizen who lives in Hamburg, said in an interview.
Weeks later, sitting in a workshop led by a pro-democracy organization, she came to understand what happened in that dizzying moment. The insults had nothing to do with her ethnic background or political leanings. The people targeting her comment were trying to whip up emotion and further polarize a world torn over issues including Russia’s war in Ukraine, gender identity and climate change.
The best way to resist, she was taught in the class, was not by trying to explain her position or defend herself, but by asking probing questions.
“People who believe conspiracy theories usually just have one line of argumentation, but there’s nothing behind it,” she said. “When you start carving into their iceberg, you quickly realize that it has no depth.”
These lessons came from an eight-week program offered by her employer, Hays, a multinational recruitment firm with 3,500 employees in Germany. The company said the project dovetailed its own aim of strengthening democratic values and making its employees more resilient.
Across Germany, several hundred companies have taken part in such workshops, and similar classes are being held in other Western countries, including the United States. Businesses are finding they need to bolster their employees in the face of increasingly vitriolic political debate. Seminars on civics and democratic principles — such as the importance of voting or recognizing the dangers of disinformation, conspiracy theories and hate speech — have become a way to ensure healthier relationships in the workplace and in society at large. In addition, reports show that economic growth is higher in stable democracies, and liberal border policies allow companies to attract skilled immigrants.
Since the initial offering that Krüger took part in, Hays has trained more employees and incorporated elements of the workshops into its companywide mandatory training, said Mimoza Murseli, a project coordinator for diversity and inclusion at Hays.
Being schooled in how to recognize and respond to hate speech and misinformation has made employees more self-assured in doing their jobs, Murseli said: “We gained confidence in standing our ground.”
Groups including the Business Council for Democracy and Weltoffenes Sachsen in Germany, and Civic Alliance and the Leadership Now Project in the United States organize workshops such as the one Krüger took part in, provide research and webinars, and support civic education and get-out-the-vote efforts — all nonpartisan. Most are nonprofit organizations, backed by independent foundations or a group of businesses that rely on their political independence as a selling point.
In Germany, the Network for Democracy and Courage has offered various workshops on civics and democracy to schools and young people for more than two decades. But five years ago, it was approached by a group of businesses in the eastern state of Saxony, where far-right politicians have been attracting more followers.
A key principle of the workshops was that they be voluntary for employees, said Nina Gbur, the organization’s project manager. They also have to be ideologically neutral and not target any group or members of a given political party.
“It’s not like companies come to us and say, ‘We have a section where three racists are sitting,’” Gbur said. “That would be completely unrealistic.”
Unacceptable Language
Germany is far from reaching the levels of political polarization that have racked the United States. But the arrival of more than 1 million immigrants in 2015-16 has inflamed debate.
Over this time, a far-right party, the Alternative for Germany, or AfD, has disrupted the country’s political landscape with its embrace of nationalist, anti-immigration policies. Known for pushing boundaries and a more confrontational, aggressive style of politics, AfD is gaining support; a recent poll showed more than 1 in 5 Germans supporting the party, up from 10% in the 2021 election.
Reflecting this shift, the tone in public discourse has become more raw. Kerstin Schultheiss, a managing director at the Leipziger Gruppe, noticed it in her company, which employs 5,000 people who provide public services in the city of Leipzig.
Several managers told her of increased tensions among employees as well as in their dealings with the public. Common flash points were the origins of the coronavirus pandemic, government mandates to conserve energy or Russia’s war in Ukraine. Employees were subject to harsh comments that went beyond a typical disagreement or a complaint, she said, especially those who deal with the public, such as tram drivers.
“There are simply people who think differently and express this difference in a way that is just not acceptable,” Schultheiss said.
When she heard about the civics training offered by the Business Council for Democracy, she applied to participate.
“We have to create a space where all employees feel comfortable and create a working environment in which they can function and work well, and in which they are not harassed by anyone because of their political views,” Schultheiss said.
The training offerings vary. In Germany, media literacy has been a crucial issue, while programs in the United States are frequently focused on teaching employees about how the government works and voting rights. But their basic premise is to empower employees to understand how their actions, both in and out of the workplace, affect the political climate and, ultimately, their own jobs.
At Nomos Glashütte, a maker of luxury watches based in Saxony, company leaders worry that if the AfD were to come to power, customers and potential employees could be repelled, threatening their business.
“Democracy is the basis of our entrepreneurial activity,” said Judith Borowski, managing director of Nomos, which offers its employees civics workshops. “And if we no longer have democracy, then the basis for our entrepreneurial activities will also be very curtailed.”
The ‘Aha’ Effect
The idea behind the Business Council for Democracy workshops is to fill gaps in workers’ knowledge of the basic underpinnings of the democratic system, especially in a digital civic culture. Programs teach how to recognize and question conspiracy theories and disinformation, aiming to reinforce personal responsibility and resilience against polarizing content.
Debate is an essential part of the program, and all workshops remain strictly confidential. What is said in the room stays in the room, to foster a space where people can be open and vulnerable. Some are held in person but most are online, which is easier for people who work shifts.
Sessions are run once a week for eight weeks, during working hours. A trained mediator brings up a topic to discuss. In the case of recognizing disinformation, the mediator might show examples of comments or images that have circulated on social media.
For example, during the pandemic in 2020, when government lockdowns prevented Germans from socializing and holiday festivities were canceled, a photograph started making the rounds showing several prominent politicians standing shoulder to shoulder, smiling and sharing mugs of hot mulled wine, with commentary expressing the idea that those making the rules were allowed to break them, while others were not.
After discussing the image, participants were shown how to check when it was taken. In the case of the merrymaking politicians, it turned out to be from 2019, the year before the pandemic.
“For the training, we use very concrete examples to make it really clear what is happening, how they are being used,” said Susann Planert, a personnel policy specialist at Leipziger who is trained to lead the workshops.
Another example she likes to use is taking an image of an article from one of the country’s major news outlets and running it through a digital tool that lets a user alter the wording in the headline. A screenshot of the new version with an altered outrageous or inflammatory headline can then quickly be posted on social media.
“Such a technical gimmick can have a huge impact,” she said. “Every time I do this in a training session, it has an ‘aha’ effect because it makes obvious how easy it is to manipulate information.”
Investing in Future Security
The lack of civics understanding among employees has come to the attention of businesses in both Germany and the United States in recent years.
In Germany, the focus is particularly acute in the former East German regions, where democracy has been around only since Germany reunified in 1990. In the United States, surveys point to declining civics understanding among adults. Both situations translate to weaker social discourse and faith in public institutions.
Employers are realizing they are in a unique position to fill information gaps. According to the Pew Research Center, only 17% of Americans trust officials in power in Washington to do the right thing. But business is viewed as the one institution that is both ethical and competent, according the Edelman Trust Barometer.
Many younger people now expect their employers to champion civic causes, said Steven Levine, director of the Civic Alliance, a nonpartisan coalition in the United States of more than 1,300 businesses, including Microsoft, McDonald’s, Target and Ecolab.
“Companies have seen themselves in recent years as an important collective stabilizing force in helping ensure that the norms of democracy are upheld,” Levine said.
Misinformation can rattle markets. In May, an image generated by artificial intelligence showing black smoke billowing near the Pentagon briefly sent stocks tumbling. But a big focus of employers in the United States has been turning out the vote. Levine cited companies such as Patagonia that close stores and offices on Election Day to allow employees to vote and volunteer at polls, and the National Basketball Association’s decision to have all 30 teams play the day before Election Day 2022, using the opportunity to encourage fans to vote and not scheduling any games on the next day.
A Location Disadvantage
As next year’s presidential election approaches, companies are concerned about the potential for instability, said Daniella Ballou-Aares, CEO of the Leadership Now Project, an organization of U.S. business leaders dedicated to promoting and protecting democracy.
She cited the legal battle between The Walt Disney Co. and Florida’s governor, Ron DeSantis, and the blowback Delta Air Lines faced from customers over its response to legislation restricting voting in Georgia.
Something similar happened to Nomos, the German watchmaker. In 2018, an angry mob led by far-right politicians held a protest in a city not far from the company’s headquarters, chanting slogans against immigrants and chasing dark-skinned bystanders. News footage of the disturbance was seen by customers as far away as New York, who called the company to express alarm.
“We had a feeling that politics like this could become a stark location disadvantage,” said Borowski, the managing director. Fearing corrosive ideas could spread among its employees, the company began offering civics workshops.
As markets and policymakers struggle with wars in Europe and the Middle East, instability in one leading country is bound to reverberate across others, Ballou-Aares said.
“If you see a disruption in democracy in a major economy,” she said, “it’s going to be a big deal.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Councils; Workshops; Politics; Employees; Employment; Pandemics; Social networks; False information; Conspiracy; Hate speech; Democracy; Politicians

Business indexing term: Subject: Workshops Employees Employment Social networks

Location: Russia; United States--US; Germany; Ukraine

Identifier / keyword: Saxony (Germany); Middle East; Illegal Immigration; Walt Disney Company; Neo Nazi Groups; Fringe Groups And Movements; Immigration And Emigration; Business Council; Florida; Domestic Violence; United States; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Ukraine; Linkedin Corporation; Energy Efficiency; Voice Recognition Systems; Democracy (Theory And Philosophy); Georgia; Elections; Politics And Government; Hamburg (Germany); Hiring And Promotion; National Basketball Assn; Europe; Germany; Quarantines; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Presidential Election Of 2024; Defense Department; Discrimination; Global Warming; Conspiracy Theories; Executives And Management (Theory); Local Government; International Relations; News And News Media; Rumors And Misinformation; Volunteers And Community Service; Workplace Environment; Target Corporation; Hate Speech; Polls And Public Opinion; Corporate Social Responsibility; Nomos Glashutte Sa; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Russia; Speeches And Statements; Desantis, Ron; Diversity Initiatives; Business; Microsoft Corp; Alternative For Germany; Pew Research Center

Title: A New Place to Learn Civics: The Workplace

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 28, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-28T12:44:48Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2883328014

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-place-learn-civics-workplace/docview/2883328014/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Microsoft Reports Quarterly Sales That Far Outpace Expectations: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Weise, Karen

Publication info: Weise, Karen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/microsoft-reports-quarterly-sales-that-far/docview/2881078298/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Revenue increased 13 percent in the latest quarter compared with a year earlier. Profit rose 27 percent.
Microsoft on Tuesday reported strong sales in its latest quarter, showing that its corporate customers have been shaking off jitters about spending heavily in the uncertain economy.
The results also showed early signs that the company's investments in generative artificial intelligence were beginning to bolster sales, most notably reversing what had been slowing growth of the company's important cloud computing product.
The company had $ 56.5 billion in sales in the three months that ended in September, up 13 percent from a year earlier. Profit hit $ 22.3 billion, up 27 percent. The results beat analyst expectations and Microsoft's own estimates.
Microsoft had told investors that A.I. wouldn't start producing meaningful results until after the start of 2024, when more products became widely available. The company and its competitors are racing to put generative A.I. into nearly every product they offer. Microsoft is seen by many companies as a leading A.I. provider, thanks to its partnership with -- and $ 13 billion investment in -- the start-up OpenAI, which introduced the chatbot ChatGPT almost a year ago.
Microsoft's flagship cloud computing product, Azure, grew 29 percent, up from 26 percent in the previous quarter. About three percentage points of Azure's growth came from generative A.I. products, including the access Microsoft provides to OpenAI's GPT-4 language model, more than the company had told investors to expect.
More than 18,000 organizations are using Microsoft's Azure OpenAI services, Satya Nadella, the company's chief executive, said in a call with investors. He said that included customers who had not used Azure before.
"Azure again took share as organizations took their workloads to our cloud," Mr. Nadella said.
Investors sent Microsoft's share price up about 4 percent in after-hours trading. The company said that sales could increase as much as 8.7 percent in the current quarter, exceeding investor expectations, and that it was investing in building data centers to support the demand for A.I. and cloud computing.
The companies and other organizations that use cloud computing had become more conservative about their spending over the past year, as they looked to optimize their costs in the uncertain economy. So even as Microsoft and its competitors have raced head first into the new generation of A.I., they have been facing tight customer budgets.
Sales from Microsoft's commercial cloud subscriptions to its productivity suite, including Excel, Word and Teams, accelerated, growing 18 percent in the quarter. The integration of Microsoft's generative A.I. "Copilot" into these products will start becoming widely available to commercial customers next month, which the investment bank UBS called "easily the most anticipated GenAI-based software application launch."
Mr. Nadella said 40 percent of the Fortune 100 companies have been testing the offering in a limited preview, and "so far, so good."
In February, the company released a chatbot integrated into its Bing search engine. But there is "no evidence" Bing has gained any search market share, UBS told investors this month. Search and news advertising was up 10 percent in the most recent quarter.
"We still see this as a long-term play," Brett Iversen, the company's head of investor relations, said in an interview.
Microsoft's personal computing business grew just 3 percent, to $ 13.7 billion, reflecting how consumer behaviors have shifted since the laptop-buying binges of the pandemic. The revenue of the Windows operating system installed on new computers was up 4 percent.
Gaming provided a consumer bright spot, with Xbox content and services up 13 percent.
Mr. Iversen said the release of Starfield, a role-playing video game developed by Bethesda Game Studios, which Microsoft bought in 2020, provided a notable lift.
The results run through the end of September, so do not include the cost of Microsoft's $ 69 billion deal to buy the video game maker Activision. That deal closed on Oct. 13 after Microsoft turned the tide on 21 months of regulatory scrutiny.
Revenue for LinkedIn, the professional social network that Microsoft acquired in 2016, grew just 8 percent to $ 3.9 billion in the quarter. LinkedIn's sales growth slowed, particularly among its products for recruiters. It announced layoffs last week, its second round this year.
This month, Microsoft also disclosed that after a decade-long audit, the Internal Revenue Service determined that it owed $ 28.9 billion in back taxes for 2004 to 2013. The I.R.S. and Microsoft have clashed over how the company shifted profits overseas. Microsoft said it was appealing the finding, in a process that could take years to resolve.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Computer & video games; Corporate profits; Cloud computing; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: UBS AG; NAICS: 522110, 523150, 523940; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/24/technology/microsoft-quarterly-results.html

Title: Microsoft Reports Quarterly Sales That Far Outpace Expectations:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2881078298

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/microsoft-reports-quarterly-sales-that-far/docview/2881078298/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cameo Was Flying High Until Its Wings Melted: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin; Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Griffith, Erin; Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cameo-was-flying-high-until-wings-melted/docview/2879660094/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A start-up that offers fans a way to buy personalized videos from celebrities was supercharged by pandemic boredom and venture capital. All it had to do was grow forever.
Kenny G opened a meeting with a saxophone serenade. Paula Abdul judged an "American Idol"-style talent contest. "Hamilton" cast members performed. Lance Bass was there, hanging out. And when Robert Van Winkle, better known as Vanilla Ice, sang his 1990 hit, "Ice Ice Baby," flanked by 10-foot sparklers, he pulled the Sugar Ray frontman Mark McGrath onstage.
This was Cameopalooza 2021, a company retreat celebrating the meteoric rise of Cameo, an app and website where regular people could buy personalized videos from minor celebrities for as little as $ 1. Attendees feasted on seafood towers and fondue fountains at an upscale restaurant on the Chicago waterfront and partied into the night at a Hilton penthouse suite, where Jack Harlow, a TikTok-famous rapper, performed a private show.
Three hundred Cameo employees danced, took videos and basked in their good fortune to be a part of the Cameo "Fameo" -- the company's nickname for its employees and community of celebrities. They were on a rocket ship powered by D-list celebrities and pandemic loneliness.
The company was preparing to expand in every direction: crypto art, live events, merchandise, international; its co-founder and chief executive, Steven Galanis, now 35, was expert at straddling the line between business and pleasure. A former collegiate party promoter, he shared the lifestyle of Cameo's celebrity talent, jet setting between parties, sporting events and luxury homes in Miami, Los Angeles, and Chicago. Cameo had just raised $ 100 million on the audacious ambition to pioneer the "connection economy," landing a $ 1 billion "unicorn" valuation just a few years into its existence.
Now fueled by money from venture capitalists including SoftBank, the investor that powered so many of the previous decade's frothiest start-ups, Cameo could be so much more than just a quirky, semi-ironic video greetings business. Mr. Galanis and his co-founders decided to build "one of the most important, beloved consumer companies of the generation," as Mr. Galanis declared in a 2021 interview. "Something that can be as enduring as what Walt Disney did for the last century."
Investors and employees -- encouraged with a meme stock battle cry of "LFG!"("let's go!" with an expletive) -- believed the company's surging growth would continue forever.
A decade of near-zero interest rates, abundant venture cash and a steady tech boom gave no indication otherwise. A company like Cameo could afford to lose money forever, as long as it kept getting bigger. And American culture produced few things with such regularity as it did new celebrities.
What could go wrong?
The Mayor
Company lore traces Cameo's roots to a 2016 conversation between Mr. Galanis, then an account manager at LinkedIn, and his friend Martin Blencowe, an N.F.L. agent. Mr. Blencowe had asked Cassius Marsh, the former Seattle Seahawks linebacker, to record a congratulatory video for a friend who had just had a baby. As Mr. Blencowe described the friend's thrilled reaction, an idea took shape.
Mr. Galanis, a 2010 Duke University graduate, recruited a fellow alumnus and software engineer, Devon Townsend, to build it. In the spring of 2017, the website BookCameo.com launched with a tweet from Mr. Marsh, promising videos for around $ 20; Tori Spelling and niche Vine personalities like Evan Breen joined later that year. (Mr. Blencowe, 37, and Mr. Townsend, 33, who are also co-founders, still work at the company.)
For Mr. Galanis, Cameo, based in his hometown, Chicago, felt like the company the trio was destined to build. He and Mr. Blencowe were fresh from a short-lived production career. (Mr. Galanis still highlights their IMDb credits, which include a TV show called "SAF3," pronounced "safe," about an elite rescue task force.) Mr. Townsend had been a star on Vine, the short-lived, short-form video app.
"We lived in this world," Mr. Galanis said. "We didn't build this business by accident."
This article is based on interviews with Mr. Galanis and more than 30 current and former Cameo employees, investors and advisers as well as internal documents, screenshots and photographs.
Mr. Galanis sports a dark close-cropped beard and often wears either polos or Cameo-branded shirts and baseball caps. He's a self-assured pitchman who views himself as an ultra-connector, peppering conversation with references to business leaders he admires like Elon Musk.
He pointed to a 13-year-old college newspaper profile of the events company he ran at Duke, with the headline "The Mayor of Main Street." He said it offered "pretty important" context for why he was able to build Cameo. The article, which is topped with a photo of Mr. Galanis flashing a thumbs-up while drinking a Busch Light, describes how he made a name for himself by befriending local venues and organizing huge parties, like a beer-pong event that was viewed as innovative for taking place on a weeknight at Shooters, a spot that was normally a sweaty dance club with a cage. (He also took credit for an "April Showers" party, featuring coeds in wet T-shirts.)
To grow in the early days, Cameo started recruiting anyone with a shred of fame to its platform, taking a 25 percent cut of videos that cost fans as much as $ 3,000. People could describe the message they wanted their celeb of choice to send: a birthday wish, a pep talk, a roast. The resulting videos were strange and amazing to receive -- Did Dennis Rodman really just tell me to have a great night?
Cameo worked best for people who were "more famous than they are rich," Mr. Galanis would say. And by the 2010s, there were plenty of those people. The old star system of movies and network shows had been displaced by YouTube channels and viral moments and the rise of reality TV. Nostalgia was rampant; obsessive fandoms had become a badge of honor. Cameo capitalized on it all, allowing fans to connect directly with celebrities who didn't seem that Olympian in the first place.
Popular talent included the Soup Nazi character played by Larry Thomas on "Seinfeld" and a YouTube duo called the Game Grumps. Brian Baumgartner, best known as Kevin from "The Office," was the company's top earner as of January 2022, according to an internal dashboard viewed by The New York Times, with more than $ 3 million in sales since joining. He was followed by Gilbert Gottfried (now deceased), Brett Favre, Sonja Morgan of the "The Real Housewives of New York City," Kevin O'Leary of "Shark Tank" and Chris Harrison of "The Bachelor." Each of the five showed lifetime sales of more than $ 1 million.
You could get a celebrity to say just about anything on Cameo, it seemed -- which, in addition to being the main part of its appeal, was an early risk to its reputation. The service hit a setback in 2018 when Mr. Favre and Soulja Boy unwittingly recorded Cameos that were laced with obscure antisemitic messages. (The platform quickly deactivated links to the videos and deleted associated accounts.)
By 2019, powered by word of mouth, Cameo had grown to 100 employees and raised $ 50 million from top venture firms, including Kleiner Perkins.
It added celebrity investors like Snoop Dogg and Bethenny Frankel of "Real Housewives." Ms. Frankel said in an interview that she refused to offer her video services unless she could buy shares. Becoming an investor made it easier to explain her presence on the platform alongside what her publicist once referred to as "Z-list talent," she said.
Things had already been going well, but Cameo was supercharged by the pandemic, when both celebs and customers were bored and seeking connection. Mr. Galanis likened Cameo's 2020 growth -- a more than fourfold increase in revenue to $ 100 million -- to getting an invincibility star while playing Mario Kart.
Stars who had previously ignored Cameo's outreach, like the singer Akon (known for such hits as "Smack That"), signed up, along with pandemic celebrities like the cast of Netflix's "Tiger King." Others, like Mandy Moore, Busy Philipps and Mike Tyson, joined Cameo for a fund-raiser. Cameo was even name-checked in a special May episode of NBC's "Parks & Recreation." The Biden campaign partnered with the start-up for fund-raising in 2020.
Employees were awed by a huge spike in Mother's Day sales, the first big pandemic gift-giving holiday, and glowing press rolled in. "Cameo Was Made for the Coronavirus," New York magazine declared. It was "fascinating, and slightly addictive," The New Yorker weighed in.
To capture the moment, the company hatched a costly marketing stunt as it neared the sale of its millionth Cameo that spring: sending a celebrity and a fan to space via Virgin Galactic, underscoring Cameo's moonshot ambitions, according to three former employees and an internal memo. The company wanted to ignite "Willy Wonka's Golden Ticket type hysteria" around it, per the memo, and even produced a video promoting the "space race" with Andy Dick, Lance Bass and other personalities. The trip would be "one giant leap for fankind," they declared.
But the killing of George Floyd in late May set off widespread protests days before the announcement, the former employees said, prompting Mr. Galanis to cancel the plan.
As the pandemic stretched on, employees worked tirelessly to keep up with the interest in the platform, especially Cameo's young talent managers, who drove celebrity sign-ups through a barrage of direct messages, emails and texts to blue-check-marks and their agents. (William Shatner of "Star Trek" complained several times on Twitter about how Cameo's employees were "relentless in hounding celebrities to death" and swore he'd never join.) Former employees recalled requirements of at least 100 "touch points" per day -- one D.M. or email counted as a touch point -- and 200 during the holidays, when people bought the most videos.
Staff took turns sending messages from the main Cameo Twitter account. "The fans keep asking!" they wrote to one recruit, punctuating with a money bag emoji. "You got a few min to chat Cameo?" A follow-up promised "big $ $ business deals."
Mr. Galanis declared in the summer of 2020 that Cameo would be a "work from anywhere" company as he relocated to Miami. He had gone on a hiring spree, doubling Cameo's staff size to 200 and recruiting a team of pricey executives from companies like LinkedIn, McDonald's and Hulu, who he believed would help take the start-up public. He said that a board member had advised him to channel Phil Jackson building the Chicago Bulls championship team.
Peak Cameo
Investors clamored to give Cameo more money, partly because in the fever dream of 2021, investors clamored to give any start-up more money. Crypto, meme stocks, collectibles, real estate -- all of it was going up, and there was more cash going around than tech founders knew what to do with.
Cameo's founders had struck on a good idea at exactly the right time -- something that counts as a success in the normal business world. But not for high-growth tech start-ups. The flood of cash from investors seeking more risk for higher returns pushed companies like Cameo to spend more, grow faster and take bigger swings in pursuit of moonshot glory. A handful of companies go on to become the next Facebook. But countless others blitzscale themselves off a cliff.
Few investors are more synonymous with such boom-and-bust investing than Masayoshi Son, head of the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank. Some of Mr. Son's aggressive bets have paid off handsomely, like his investment in the Chinese conglomerate Alibaba. Others crashed and burned, like WeWork, the high-flying co-working company that's now at risk of insolvency. Several former Cameo employees invoked WeWork when talking about their experience at Cameo.
Mr. Galanis met with Mr. Son on Zoom in February 2021. Mr. Son offered Cameo $ 400 million in cash -- four times the company's fund-raising goal -- and told Mr. Galanis to spend $ 100 million of it sponsoring the Tokyo Olympics, Mr. Galanis said. Instead, he stuck to Cameo's target. A representative for SoftBank declined to comment.
The hot new funding round, announced in March 2021 -- around the time Covid vaccines rolled out widely -- drew enough interest that Mr. Galanis and his co-founders sold a chunk of shares, a move that is sometimes frowned upon by investors and wasn't disclosed to employees. Mr. Galanis said he sold less than 12 percent of his shares -- which could have been worth millions of dollars at the time -- and that he remains the largest individual shareholder. (The co-founders each take a salary of no more than $ 150,000, he said.)
Rank-and-file employees were not permitted to sell, though outside investors like Ms. Frankel were. She said she had gotten the sense that the app had peaked and sold her stake for a "seven-figure return," including her video earnings.
With the new $ 1 billion valuation, the mood at Cameo was euphoric. The company rented a Beverly Hills mansion it called the "Cameo House" with a big deck and a pool for roughly $ 60,000 a month. Cameo was burning $ 5 million a month on its staff, travel, parties at the Cameo House, and expensive takeout for stars from chichi spots like Sugarfish and Jon & Vinny's.
The company regularly highlighted its celebrity investors like Ms. Frankel. In 2021, it added Earvin (Magic) Johnson to its board.
The hype extended to equity. The message to employees, especially new hires, was that unlike their 401(k)s, their payouts could make them rich. Some employees donned vests on their one-year anniversary at Cameo in a nod to some shares vesting, two former staffers said.
But the business couldn't grow fast enough from just video messages. Cameo experimented with other ways to get people to pay for interactions with talent, like live events, real-time video calls and direct messages. It created Cameo for Business to pair celebrities with corporations for ads and speaking gigs, a promising division that was often shunted to the side in favor of ventures that involved fans.
An initiative called Project Blackbeard tried to woo bigger celebrities onto Cameo with upfront cash payments and minimum guarantees. But the deals were costly -- Ian Somerhalder, an actor from the teen drama "Vampire Diaries," received a six-figure sum, according to three former employees -- and the stars often left once the contracts ended. Once other celebrities and agents got wind of the advances, many began demanding similar fees. Cameo ended the project. (Mr. Somerhalder did not reply to a request for comment; Cameo noted that he had since rejoined.)
Many major stars didn't want to be on Cameo, except for the occasional charity event. It had a strong whiff of the D-list, and they didn't want to be listed next to a pair of TikTok rappers called the Island Boys or the dermatologist known as Dr. Pimple Popper.
But Cameo was hungry for any piece of them. In October 2021, the company bought Represent, a Los Angeles business that helped celebrities and influencers sell customized goods to their fans. Represent had a star-studded roster, including Zayn Malik, Arnold Schwarzenegger and the cast of "Friends," and Cameo hoped those clients might eventually start making videos.
It paid $ 25 million to $ 30 million, according to three people familiar with the deal, and took on debt for the first time to do so. The company celebrated with a "Friendsgiving" party at the Beverly Hills mansion in November, which featured dancers in gold costumes gyrating inside clear globes floating on its pool and guests like Ms. Abdul and Perez Hilton.
But Cameo's hopes to get in with Represent's stars died quickly.
Mr. Malik was among celebrities who refused requests to join Cameo, two former employees said -- and few of Cameo's stars, with some exceptions like the internet sensation Corn Kid, ended up experimenting with Represent. The company said joining Cameo became a "friction point" for some Represent stars. (Mr. Malik did not reply to requests for comment.)
The failed experiments were one thing, but there was a bigger problem on the horizon as the company headed into 2022. People were simply not spending as much on Cameos as they had been before.
The Tinder Swindler and NFTs
Cameo's unsuccessful lurches into new products and growing internal stress put new scrutiny on Mr. Galanis and his unfocused management style. (The company said that Mr. Galanis's daily responsibilities "may not have been apparent to each employee," particularly while they worked remotely.)
Weekly staff meetings featured a "Steven's Thoughts" portion where he often discussed his weekends jet setting at Formula 1 races, the Cannes Lions festival and N.C.A.A. games. (Cameo said travel was not the primary focus of "Steven's Thoughts.") Sometimes he talked about Cameo's plans to expand into the cryptocurrency business known as web3, comparing the opportunity to Christopher Columbus's exploration of the new world. He told some employees he was seeing a longevity doctor who had informed him that, despite being 35, he was biologically 44. (Being chief executive has taken a huge toll on his health, he said in an interview.)
The newly expanded sales team was stuck in place, circling whatever person had just gone viral on TikTok or joined the cast of "Love Island."
In early 2022, some talent reps began seeking out convicted fraudsters like Simon Leviev, better known as Tinder Swindler from Netflix, a con artist who scammed dozens of women out of millions of dollars on dating apps. (Cameo said felons were allowed on the app, including those in jail, so long as they were not subject to U.S. sanctions.)
Mr. Galanis and other company leaders promoted the Tinder Swindler on social media and touted the money they would make from him, outraging women at the company and later prompting one executive to issue a companywide apology on Slack, according to internal messages. One employee sent a Slack message flagging Billy McFarland of Fyre Festival notoriety and the pharma villain Martin Shkreli for outreach, saying, "Just in case they get out of jail early, we should be on top of it." The Information earlier reported on the internal strife.
Some celebrities left, citing the arrival of Mr. Leviev and other polarizing characters, several employees said. The actress Alyssa Milano told The Times in a text message that she left Cameo after members of the Trump family joined in mid-2021, though she recently rejoined amid the Hollywood strikes. Last year, employees also complained after Cameo executives gave Represent the task of selling merchandise for Andrew Tate, the self-declared misogynist who has since been charged with rape and human trafficking.
Mr. Galanis, for his part, said he was annoyed by the reactions, blaming Cameo's hiring spree for bringing on employees who didn't share what he characterized as the company's values around free speech.
"There was actually someone at an all-hands that said, 'I feel Cameo is gaslighting me by letting Donald Trump Jr. on because his father killed my father,"' Mr. Galanis said. "Her dad had passed away from Covid. So that's the type of just crazy activism that was happening at the company, and this wasn't just one person."
Cameo kept throwing spaghetti at the wall. Perhaps inevitably, it got in on crypto, with Cameo Pass, a new product that sold crypto-backed art known as nonfungible tokens alongside access to V.I.P. parties.
The crypto push seemed to reflect the personal enthusiasms of the company's founder as much as it did any business imperatives. Around that time, Mr. Galanis showed off an NFT he'd purchased on his own. It was a cartoon picture of a monkey wearing 3-D glasses called a Bored Ape that cost him $ 320,000. Represent made him a pair of flip-flops bearing the image.
In March 2022, for the first time in four years, the Federal Reserve announced plans to raise interest rates, signaling that the free money chasing high-growth start-ups might be about to dry up. In May of that year, Cameo, which was still burning millions a month without the sales to show for it, laid off 87 people, or around a quarter of its staff, citing overhiring and the market downturn. The party seemed over.
Except -- the parties weren't over. A few days after the cuts, Cameo threw a celebration in Miami for its NFT holders at a Star Island mansion with a red carpet, a row of sports cars and performances from Diplo, DJ Khaled and Fabolous. Current and former employees were outraged, though Cameo said the parties were paid for by the proceeds of its NFT sales.
Cameo's crypto business brought in a few million dollars in revenue before the company shut it down, one year after it launched. The price of its NFTs, which initially sold for around $ 630, sank as low as $ 7.60. Cameo had entered the market near its peak; a May 2022 crash wiped out $ 300 billion in one week. In July, Cameo slashed its internal valuation of its common shares by 55 percent, according to an internal presentation viewed by The Times. In August 2022, hackers stole Mr. Galanis's monkey art along with $ 70,000 worth of cryptocurrency.
Mr. Galanis tried to round up more cash in 2023, according to three people familiar with the situation, but investors were turned off by all the spending. A potential deal that would have let Cameo acquire a European competitor called Memmo fell through, according to two people familiar with the conversations. Memmo went bankrupt in August. Another investor, the private equity firm TPG, has had multiple conversations about investing this year, but no deal is imminent, three people said.
'Wouldn't Wish It on Anybody'
Today, Cameo operates as a husk of its former self. Its nearly 400 employees have shrunk to 33, plus a handful of contractors, after three rounds of layoffs. Magic Johnson, who was paid for his role, left Cameo's board after not fulfilling obligations that included making Cameo videos, promoting the service and attending board meetings, according to two people familiar with his exit. (Cameo said he left on good terms. Mr. Johnson didn't reply to requests for comment.) Cameo gave up its Beverly Hills mansion, and Represent stopped taking new clients.
The all-star team of executives that Mr. Galanis put together is now almost entirely gone. "I had to fire some of my best friends," he said. "I wouldn't wish it on anybody, but my job as C.E.O. is to make sure this business survives and fulfills our mission and vision."
Cameo is wringing more money from the videos it started with, increasing its cut to 30 percent for new talent plus a new 10 percent service fee.
It also appears to be seeking out talent who might not even be considered D-list. Since 2020, more than 100,000 people had applied to sell videos on Cameo but were rejected for having small followings or unverified identities, Mr. Galanis said. Now, he said, Cameo "allows more of those people to get through."
And it continues to seek new horizons. The company recently sponsored jerseys for a professional pickleball team that Mr. Galanis co-owns in Miami. Mr. Galanis said no funds from Cameo were used for the sponsorship.
Cameo is just one case study in the grim awakening for the start-up sector writ large, and an especially familiar tale among pandemic darlings like Zoom and Peloton that couldn't maintain their rapid growth.
Still, Mr. Galanis argued that Cameo was thriving and "absolutely" still on track to become the next Disney. Cameo turned its first monthly profit in August since May 2020, he said -- but only excluding certain costs like interest and taxes. Revenue, which had not grown year over year since June 2021, rose in September. The Hollywood strikes gave the company a boost, and investors were paying attention to its cost cutting, he said.
Mr. Galanis said his ambitions for Cameo hadn't changed through it all. "I was put on Earth to build this company," he said. "I'll fight for it every day."
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Photograph Top, Steven Galanis, a founder and the chief executive of Cameo. Above, from left: Brian Baumgartner, right, from "The Office," was Cameo's top earner at its peak; and Masayoshi Son is the C.E.O. of SoftBank, an investor. Below, Bethenny Frankel refused to join Cameo unless she could buy shares. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE KELTER DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BYRON COHEN/NBCUNIVERSAL, VIA GETTY IMAGES; KIYOSHI OTA/BLOOMBERG; CELESTE SLOMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5); Top, from left, Martin Blencowe, Devon Townsend and Steven Galanis, the co-founders of Cameo, at the company's Beverly Hills property. Above from left: the actor Ian Somerhalder of "Vampire Diaries" received a big payment to join Cameo; and when Cameo reached out to Simon Leviev, center, known as the Tinder Swindler, many staff members were outraged. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE GROSKOPF; GETTY IMAGES/NBCUNIVERSAL, VIA GETTY IMAGES; TORE KRISTIANSEN/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (BU6) This article appeared in print on page BU5, BU6.

Subject: Sales; Investments; Video recordings; Celebrities; Startups; Employees; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales Startups Employees

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/20/technology/cameo-to-the-moon-and-back.html

Title: Cameo Was Flying High Until Its Wings Melted:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 22, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2879660094

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cameo-was-flying-high-until-wings-melted/docview/2879660094/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyri ght New York Times Company Oct 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Synagogue President Found Fatally Stabbed Near Her Detroit Home: [National Desk]

Author: Edmonds, Colbi

Publication info: Edmonds, Colbi. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/synagogue-president-found-fatally-stabbed-near/docview/2879660030/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Samantha Woll, 40, the president of a synagogue downtown, was lauded as a dynamic figure in the community.
The president of a synagogue in Detroit who was known as one of the city's most vibrant religious leaders was found killed near her home on Saturday. The authorities have not yet determined a motive.
The president, Samantha Woll, 40, led the board of the Isaac Agree Downtown Synagogue, a century-old institution that is the only free-standing synagogue in downtown Detroit, according to its website.
The Detroit Police released a statement on Saturday saying that a woman had been found unresponsive in the morning on a street east of downtown and that she had been declared dead at the scene. The statement did not name Ms. Woll, but the location was near her home address. The woman had multiple stab wounds, the statement said, and officers observed a trail of blood that led to the victim's home, where the police said they believed the attack occurred.
On Saturday evening, the Michigan State Police confirmed that they were investigating Ms. Woll's death with the Detroit Police. Authorities are asking anyone with information to come forward. In a statement, Detroit Police Chief James E. White urged patience with the investigation and cautioned against drawing conclusions.
Before leading the synagogue, Ms. Woll worked extensively in Democratic state politics. She was a political director for Dana Nessel, the attorney general of Michigan. She was also a campaign manager for State Senator Stephanie Chang and a deputy on the staff of U.S. Representative Elissa Slotkin, according to Ms. Woll's LinkedIn profile.
"I am shocked, saddened and horrified to learn of Sam's brutal murder," Ms. Nessel said on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter. "Sam truly used her faith and activism to create a better place for everyone."
Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan said in a statement on X that Ms. Woll had been one of the city's "great young leaders" and recalled a moment just weeks ago when they celebrated the renovation of the synagogue, which Ms. Woll had helped guide.
"Sam's loss has left a huge hole in the Detroit community," Mr. Duggan said. "This entire city joins with her family and friends in mourning her tragic death."
Since the synagogue's inception, a large portion of the city's Jewish community has moved to the suburbs. But Ms. Woll sought to "make Jewish life in the city more exciting," said Jeremy Moss, a state senator in Michigan who had known Ms. Woll since childhood.
"I'm so stunned by all of this," he said in a phone call. "I just saw her last week."
Mr. Moss said Ms. Woll had been highly involved in Jewish community activism and that she was always trying to get more people to participate, adding that she had been proud of the renovations as a way to create a more "innovative" atmosphere.
"She was a burst of energy and optimism," Mr. Moss said. "She was just somebody we all admired." She was not married and did not have children, he said.
Ms. Woll was included in the feature article "36 Under 36" by The Detroit Jewish News in 2017, which said she had been "instrumental" in founding the Muslim-Jewish Forum of Detroit that facilitated relationships between those communities.
On social media, Ms. Chang recalled fond memories with Ms. Woll, whom she met during their undergraduate years at the University of Michigan. Ms. Woll helped Ms. Chang with all her campaigns, but she was more than just a colleague, Ms. Chang said -- she was a "beautiful friend."
"Sam is already missed, and the brutality of her death is beyond words," Ms. Chang wrote on Facebook. "Detroit, Michigan and the world were so lucky to have her light shine for the 40 years we had her."
The Downtown Synagogue said on Facebook that it did not have more information on Ms. Woll's death, but that it would share more when it became available.
"May her memory be a blessing," the organization wrote.
Mitch Smith contributed reporting.
Mitch Smith contributed reporting.
Photograph Samantha Woll, 40, led the board of the Isaac Agree Downtown Synagogue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GURALNICK/DETROIT NEWS, VIA AP) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Presidents; Jewish life & ethics; Criminal investigations; Murders & murder attempts; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Michigan; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: Isaac Agree Downtown Synagogue; NAICS: 813110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/21/us/detroit-synagogue-stabbing-samantha-woll.html

Title: Synagogue President Found Fatally Stabbed Near Her Detroit Home:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 22, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2879660030

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/synagogue-president-found-fatally-stabbed-near/docview/2879660030/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cameo Was Flying High Until Its Wings Melted

Author: Griffith, Erin; Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Griffith, Erin; Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cameo-was-flying-high-until-wings-melted/docview/2879632037/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Kenny G opened a meeting with a saxophone serenade. Paula Abdul judged an American Idol-style talent contest. “Hamilton” cast members performed. Lance Bass was there, hanging out. And when Vanilla Ice sang his 1990 hit “Ice Ice Baby,” flanked by 10-foot sparklers, he pulled Sugar Ray frontman Mark McGrath onstage.
This was Cameopalooza 2021, a company retreat celebrating the meteoric rise of Cameo, an app and website where regular people could buy personalized videos from minor celebrities for as little as $1. Attendees feasted on seafood towers and fondue fountains at an upscale restaurant on the Chicago waterfront and partied into the night at a Hilton penthouse suite, where Jack Harlow, a TikTok-famous rapper, performed a private show.
Three hundred Cameo employees danced, took videos and basked in their good fortune to be a part of the Cameo “Fameo” — the company’s nickname for its employees and community of celebrities. They were on a rocket ship powered by D-list celebrities and pandemic loneliness.
The company was preparing to expand in every direction: crypto art, live events, merchandise, international; its co-founder and CEO, Steven Galanis, now 35, was expert at straddling the line between business and pleasure. A former collegiate party promoter, he shared the lifestyle of Cameo’s celebrity talent, jet setting between parties, sporting events and luxury homes in Miami, Los Angeles, and Chicago. Cameo had just raised $100 million on the audacious ambition to pioneer the “connection economy,” landing a $1 billion “unicorn” valuation just a few years into its existence.
Now fueled by money from venture capitalists including SoftBank, the investor that powered so many of the previous decade’s frothiest startups, Cameo could be so much more than just a quirky, semi-ironic video greetings business.
An Idea Takes Shape
Company lore traces Cameo’s roots to a 2016 conversation between Galanis, then an account manager at LinkedIn, and his friend Martin Blencowe, an NFL agent. Blencowe had asked Cassius Marsh, a former Seattle Seahawks linebacker, to record a congratulatory video for a friend who had just had a baby. As Blencowe described the friend’s thrilled reaction, an idea took shape.
Galanis, a 2010 Duke University graduate, recruited a fellow alumnus and software engineer, Devon Townsend, to build it. In the spring of 2017, the website BookCameo.com launched with a tweet from Marsh, promising videos for about $20; Tori Spelling and niche Vine personalities such as Evan Breen joined later that year. (Blencowe, 37, and Townsend, 33, who are also co-founders, still work at the company.)
For Galanis, Cameo, based in his hometown, Chicago, felt like the company the trio was destined to build. He and Blencowe were fresh from a short-lived production career. Townsend had been a star on Vine, a short-lived, short-form video app.
“We lived in this world,” Galanis said. “We didn’t build this business by accident.”
To grow in the early days, Cameo started recruiting anyone with a shred of fame to its platform, taking a 25% cut of videos that cost fans as much as $3,000. People could describe the message they wanted their celeb of choice to send: a birthday wish, a pep talk, a roast.
Cameo worked best for people who were “more famous than they are rich,” Galanis would say. And by the 2010s, there were plenty of those people. The old star system of movies and network shows had been displaced by YouTube channels and viral moments and the rise of reality TV. Nostalgia was rampant; obsessive fandoms had become a badge of honor. Cameo capitalized on it all, allowing fans to connect directly with celebrities who didn’t seem that Olympian in the first place.
Brian Baumgartner, best known as Kevin from “The Office,” was the company’s top earner as of January 2022, according to an internal dashboard viewed by The New York Times, with more than $3 million in sales since joining. He was followed by Gilbert Gottfried (now deceased), Brett Favre, Sonja Morgan of the “The Real Housewives of New York City,” Kevin O’Leary of “Shark Tank” and Chris Harrison of “The Bachelor.” Each of the five showed lifetime sales of more than $1 million.
By 2019, powered by word-of-mouth, Cameo had grown to 100 employees and raised $50 million from top venture firms.
It added celebrity investors such as Snoop Dogg and Bethenny Frankel of “Real Housewives.” Frankel said in an interview that she refused to offer her video services unless she could buy shares. Becoming an investor made it easier to explain her presence on the platform alongside what her publicist once referred to as “Z-list talent,” she said.
Things had already been going well, but Cameo was supercharged by the pandemic, when both celebs and customers were bored and seeking connection. Galanis likened Cameo’s 2020 growth — a more-than-fourfold increase in revenue to $100 million — to getting an invincibility star while playing Mario Kart.
Employees were awed by a huge spike in Mother’s Day sales, the first big pandemic gift-giving holiday, and glowing press rolled in. “Cameo Was Made for the Coronavirus,” New York magazine declared.
To capture the moment, the company hatched a costly marketing stunt as it neared the sale of its millionth Cameo that spring: sending a celebrity and a fan to space via Virgin Galactic, underscoring Cameo’s moonshot ambitions, according to three former employees and an internal memo. The company wanted to ignite “Willy Wonka’s Golden Ticket type hysteria” around it, per the memo.
But the killing of George Floyd in late May 2020 set off widespread protests days before the announcement, the former employees said, prompting Galanis to cancel the plan.
Galanis declared in the summer of 2020 that Cameo would be a “work from anywhere” company as he relocated to Miami. He had gone on a hiring spree, doubling Cameo’s staff size to 200 and recruiting a team of pricey executives whom he believed would help take the startup public.
Peak Cameo
Investors clamored to give Cameo more money, partly because in the fever dream of 2021, investors clamored to give any startup more money. Crypto, meme stocks, collectibles, real estate — all of it was going up, and there was more cash going around than tech founders knew what to do with.
Cameo’s founders had struck on a good idea at exactly the right time — something that counts as a success in the normal business world. But not for high-growth tech startups. The flood of cash from investors seeking more risk for higher returns pushed companies such as Cameo to spend more, grow faster and take bigger swings in pursuit of moonshot glory.
Few investors are more synonymous with such boom-and-bust investing than Masayoshi Son, head of the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank. Some of Son’s aggressive bets have paid off handsomely, including his investment in Chinese conglomerate Alibaba. Others crashed and burned, like WeWork.
Galanis met with Son on Zoom in February 2021. Son offered Cameo $400 million in cash — four times the company’s fundraising goal — and told Galanis to spend $100 million of it sponsoring the Tokyo Olympics, Galanis said. Instead, he stuck to Cameo’s target.
With the new $1 billion valuation, the mood at Cameo was euphoric. The company rented a Beverly Hills mansion it called the “Cameo House” for roughly $60,000 a month. Cameo was burning $5 million a month on its staff, travel, parties at the Cameo House, and expensive takeout for stars.
The company regularly highlighted its celebrity investors such as Frankel. In 2021, it added Magic Johnson to its board.
The hype extended to equity. The message to employees, especially new hires, was that, unlike their 401(k)s, their payouts could make them rich.
But the business couldn’t grow fast enough from just video messages.
Many major stars didn’t want to be on Cameo. It had a strong whiff of the D-list, and they didn’t want to be listed next to TikTok rappers or the dermatologist known as Dr. Pimple Popper.
But Cameo was hungry for any piece of them. In October 2021, the company bought Represent, a Los Angeles business that helped celebrities and influencers sell customized goods to their fans. Represent had a star-studded roster.
But Cameo’s hopes to get in with Represent’s stars died quickly. And there was a bigger problem on the horizon as the company headed into 2022: People were simply not spending as much on Cameos as they had been before.
Throwing Spaghetti at the Wall
Cameo’s unsuccessful lurches into new products and growing internal stress put new scrutiny on Galanis and his unfocused management style. (The company said Galanis’ daily responsibilities “may not have been apparent to each employee,” particularly while they worked remotely.)
Cameo kept throwing spaghetti at the wall. Perhaps inevitably, it got in on crypto, with Cameo Pass, a new product that sold crypto-backed art known as non-fungible tokens alongside access to VIP parties.
Cameo’s crypto business brought in a few million dollars in revenue before the company shut it down, one year after it launched. The price of its NFTs, which initially sold for about $630, sunk as low as $7.60. Cameo had entered the market near its peak; a May 2022 crash wiped out $300 billion in one week. In July 2022, Cameo slashed its internal valuation of its common shares by 55%, according to an internal presentation viewed by the Times.
Galanis tried to round up more cash this year, according to three people familiar with the situation, but investors were turned off by all the spending.
Today, Cameo operates as a husk of its former self. Its nearly 400 employees have shrunk to 33, plus a handful of contractors, after three rounds of layoffs. Magic Johnson, who was paid for his role, left Cameo’s board after not fulfilling obligations that included making Cameo videos, promoting the service and attending board meetings, according to two people familiar with his exit. (Cameo said he left on good terms. Johnson didn’t reply to requests for comment.) Cameo gave up its Beverly Hills mansion, and Represent stopped taking new clients.
The all-star team of executives that Galanis put together is now almost entirely gone. “I had to fire some of my best friends,” he said. “I wouldn’t wish it on anybody, but my job as CEO is to make sure this business survives and fulfills our mission and vision.”
Galanis argued that Cameo was thriving and “absolutely” still on track to become the next Disney. Cameo turned its first monthly profit in August since May 2020, he said — excluding certain costs like interest and taxes. Revenue, which had not grown year over year since June 2021, rose in September. The Hollywood strikes gave the company a boost and investors were paying attention to its cost cutting, he said.
Galanis said his ambitions for Cameo hadn’t changed through it all. “I was put on Earth to build this company,” he said. “I’ll fight for it every day.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Sales; Celebrities; Video recordings; Startups; Employees; Pandemics; Product development

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales Startups Employees Product development

Location: Chicago Illinois; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Arts And Antiquities Looting; Loneliness; Celebrities; Cameo (Mobile App); Parties (Social); New York City; Alibaba Group Holding Ltd; Venture Capital; Mobile Applications; Company Reports; Videophones And Videoconferencing; Private Spaceflight; Reality Television; Linkedin Corporation; Relocation Of Business; Philanthropy; HuluCom; Rap And Hip Hop; Gifts; Moon; All Star Games; Vine Labs Inc; Son, Masayoshi; Telecommuting; Hiring And Promotion; Johnson, Earvin; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Harlow, Jack (Ra pper); Finances; Vanilla Ice; Pensions And Retirement Plans; Virgin Galactic; Music; Executives And Management (Theory); Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Actors And Actresses; YoutubeCom; New York (Magazine); Harrison, Chris (1971 ); Facebook Inc; Workplace Environment; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); Kenny G; Duke University; Tiktok (Bytedance); Polls And Public Opinion; Stars And Galaxies; Stocks And Bonds; Abdul, Paula; Stunts And Stuntmen; Japan; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Collectors And Collections; Walt Disney Company; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Softbank Corporation; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Virtual Currency; Beverly Hills (Calif); Galanis, Steven; Zoom Video Communications; Football; High Net Worth Individuals; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Favre, Brett; Business; Doctors; Chicago (Ill); Ray Llc; Spelling, Tori; Start Ups; New York Times; Snoop Dogg; Fans (Persons); Luxury Goods And Services; Olympic Games (2020)

Title: Cameo Was Flying High Until Its Wings Melted

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 21, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-21T19:30:30Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2879632037

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cameo-was-flying-high-until-wings-melted/docview/2879632037/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Cameo to the Moon, and Back

Author: Griffith, Erin; Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Griffith, Erin; Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cameo-moon-back/docview/2879630004/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Kenny G opened a meeting with a saxophone serenade. Paula Abdul judged an American Idol-style talent contest. “Hamilton” cast members performed. Lance Bass of ’NSync was there, hanging out. And when Robert Van Winkle, better known as Vanilla Ice, sang his 1990 hit “Ice Ice Baby,” flanked by 10-foot sparklers, he pulled Sugar Ray frontman Mark McGrath onstage.
This was Cameopalooza 2021, a company retreat celebrating the meteoric rise of Cameo, an app and website where regular people could buy personalized videos from minor celebrities for as little as $1. Attendees feasted on seafood towers and fondue fountains at an upscale restaurant on the Chicago waterfront and partied into the night at a Hilton penthouse suite, where Jack Harlow, a TikTok-famous rapper, performed a private show.
Three hundred Cameo employees danced, took videos and basked in their good fortune to be a part of the Cameo “Fameo” — the company’s nickname for its employees and community of celebrities. They were on a rocket ship powered by D-list celebrities and pandemic loneliness.
The company was preparing to expand in every direction: crypto art, live events, merchandise, international; its co-founder and CEO, Steven Galanis, now 35, was expert at straddling the line between business and pleasure. A former collegiate party promoter, he shared the lifestyle of Cameo’s celebrity talent, jet setting between parties, sporting events and luxury homes in Miami, Los Angeles, and Chicago. Cameo had just raised $100 million on the audacious ambition to pioneer the “connection economy,” landing a $1 billion “unicorn” valuation just a few years into its existence.
Now fueled by money from venture capitalists including SoftBank, the investor that powered so many of the previous decade’s frothiest startups, Cameo could be so much more than just a quirky, semi-ironic video greetings business.
Galanis and his co-founders decided to build “one of the most important, beloved consumer companies of the generation,” as Galanis declared in a 2021 interview. “Something that can be as enduring as what Walt Disney did for the last century.”
Investors and employees — encouraged with a meme stock battle cry of “LFG!”(“Let’s go!” with an expletive) — believed the company’s surging growth would continue forever.
A decade of near-zero interest rates, abundant venture cash and a steady tech boom gave no indication otherwise. A company such as Cameo could afford to lose money forever, as long as it kept getting bigger. And American culture produced few things with such regularity as it did new celebrities.
What could go wrong?
An Idea Takes Shape
Company lore traces Cameo’s roots to a 2016 conversation between Galanis, then an account manager at LinkedIn, and his friend Martin Blencowe, an NFL agent. Blencowe had asked Cassius Marsh, a former Seattle Seahawks linebacker, to record a congratulatory video for a friend who had just had a baby. As Blencowe described the friend’s thrilled reaction, an idea took shape.
Galanis, a 2010 Duke University graduate, recruited a fellow alumnus and software engineer, Devon Townsend, to build it. In the spring of 2017, the website BookCameo.com launched with a tweet from Marsh, promising videos for about $20; Tori Spelling and niche Vine personalities such as Evan Breen joined later that year. (Blencowe, 37, and Townsend, 33, who are also co-founders, still work at the company.)
For Galanis, Cameo, based in his hometown, Chicago, felt like the company the trio was destined to build. He and Blencowe were fresh from a short-lived production career. (Galanis still highlights their IMDb credits, which include a TV show called SAF3, pronounced “safe,” about an elite rescue task force.) Townsend had been a star on Vine, a short-lived, short-form video app.
“We lived in this world,” Galanis said. “We didn’t build this business by accident.”
This article is based on interviews with Galanis and more than 30 current and former Cameo employees, investors and advisers as well as internal documents, screenshots and photographs.
Galanis sports a dark, close-cropped beard and often wears either polos or Cameo-branded shirts and baseball caps. He’s a self-assured pitchman who views himself as an ultra-connector, peppering conversation with references to business leaders he admires such as Elon Musk.
He pointed to a 13-year-old college newspaper profile of the events company he ran at Duke, with the headline “The Mayor of Main Street.” He said it offered “pretty important” context for why he was able to build Cameo. The article, which is topped with a photo of Galanis flashing a thumbs-up while drinking a Busch Light, describes how he made a name for himself by befriending local venues and organizing huge parties, including a beer-pong event that was viewed as innovative for taking place on a weeknight at Shooters, a spot that was normally a sweaty dance club with a cage. (He also took credit for an “April Showers” party, featuring women in wet T-shirts.)
To grow in the early days, Cameo started recruiting anyone with a shred of fame to its platform, taking a 25% cut of videos that cost fans as much as $3,000. People could describe the message they wanted their celeb of choice to send: a birthday wish, a pep talk, a roast. The resulting videos were strange and amazing to receive — Did Dennis Rodman really just tell me to have a great night ?
Cameo worked best for people who were “more famous than they are rich,” Galanis would say. And by the 2010s, there were plenty of those people. The old star system of movies and network shows had been displaced by YouTube channels and viral moments and the rise of reality TV. Nostalgia was rampant; obsessive fandoms had become a badge of honor. Cameo capitalized on it all, allowing fans to connect directly with celebrities who didn’t seem that Olympian in the first place.
Popular talent included the Soup Nazi character played by Larry Thomas on “Seinfeld” and a YouTube duo called the Game Grumps. Brian Baumgartner, best known as Kevin from “The Office,” was the company’s top earner as of January 2022, according to an internal dashboard viewed by The New York Times, with more than $3 million in sales since joining. He was followed by Gilbert Gottfried (now deceased), Brett Favre, Sonja Morgan of the “The Real Housewives of New York City,” Kevin O’Leary of “Shark Tank” and Chris Harrison of “The Bachelor.” Each of the five showed lifetime sales of more than $1 million.
You could get a celebrity to say just about anything on Cameo, it seemed — which, in addition to being the main part of its appeal, was an early risk to its reputation. The service hit a setback in 2018 when Favre and Soulja Boy unwittingly recorded Cameos that were laced with obscure antisemitic messages. (The platform quickly deactivated links to the videos and deleted associated accounts.)
By 2019, powered by word-of-mouth, Cameo had grown to 100 employees and raised $50 million from top venture firms, including Kleiner Perkins.
It added celebrity investors such as Snoop Dogg and Bethenny Frankel of “Real Housewives.” Frankel said in an interview that she refused to offer her video services unless she could buy shares. Becoming an investor made it easier to explain her presence on the platform alongside what her publicist once referred to as “Z-list talent,” she said.
Things had already been going well, but Cameo was supercharged by the pandemic, when both celebs and customers were bored and seeking connection. Galanis likened Cameo’s 2020 growth — a more-than-fourfold increase in revenue to $100 million — to getting an invincibility star while playing Mario Kart.
Stars who had previously ignored Cameo’s outreach, including singer Akon (known for such hits as “Smack That”), signed up, along with pandemic celebrities such as the cast of Netflix’s “Tiger King.” Others, including Mandy Moore, Busy Philipps and Mike Tyson, joined Cameo for a fundraiser. Cameo was even name-checked in a special May episode of NBC’s “Parks & Recreation.” Joe Biden’s presidential campaign partnered with the startup for fundraising in 2020.
Employees were awed by a huge spike in Mother’s Day sales, the first big pandemic gift-giving holiday, and glowing press rolled in. “Cameo Was Made for the Coronavirus,” New York magazine declared. It was “fascinating, and slightly addictive,” The New Yorker weighed in.
To capture the moment, the company hatched a costly marketing stunt as it neared the sale of its millionth Cameo that spring: sending a celebrity and a fan to space via Virgin Galactic, underscoring Cameo’s moonshot ambitions, according to three former employees and an internal memo. The company wanted to ignite “Willy Wonka’s Golden Ticket type hysteria” around it, per the memo, and even produced a video promoting the “space race” with Andy Dick, Lance Bass and other personalities. The trip would be “one giant leap for fankind,” they declared.
But the killing of George Floyd in late May 2020 set off widespread protests days before the announcement, the former employees said, prompting Galanis to cancel the plan.
As the pandemic stretched on, employees worked tirelessly to keep up with the interest in the platform, especially Cameo’s young talent managers, who drove celebrity sign-ups through a barrage of direct messages, emails and texts to blue check marks and their agents. (William Shatner of “Star Trek” complained several times on Twitter about how Cameo’s employees were “relentless in hounding celebrities to death” and swore he’d never join.) Former employees recalled requirements of at least 100 “touch points” per day — one DM or email counted as a touch point — and 200 during the holidays, when people bought the most videos.
Staffers took turns sending messages from the main Cameo Twitter account. “The fans keep asking!” they wrote to one recruit, punctuating with a money bag emoji. “You got a few min to chat Cameo?” A follow-up promised “big $ $ business deals.”
Galanis declared in the summer of 2020 that Cameo would be a “work from anywhere” company as he relocated to Miami. He had gone on a hiring spree, doubling Cameo’s staff size to 200 and recruiting a team of pricey executives from companies such as LinkedIn, McDonald’s and Hulu, whom he believed would help take the startup public. He said a board member had advised him to channel Phil Jackson building the Chicago Bulls championship team.
Business Was Zooming
Investors clamored to give Cameo more money, partly because in the fever dream of 2021, investors clamored to give any startup more money. Crypto, meme stocks, collectibles, real estate — all of it was going up, and there was more cash going around than tech founders knew what to do with.
Cameo’s founders had struck on a good idea at exactly the right time — something that counts as a success in the normal business world. But not for high-growth tech startups. The flood of cash from investors seeking more risk for higher returns pushed companies such as Cameo to spend more, grow faster and take bigger swings in pursuit of moonshot glory. A handful of companies go on to become the next Facebook. But countless others blitzscale themselves off a cliff.
Few investors are more synonymous with such boom-and-bust investing than Masayoshi Son, head of the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank. Some of Son’s aggressive bets have paid off handsomely, including his investment in Chinese conglomerate Alibaba. Others crashed and burned, including WeWork, a high-flying coworking company that’s now at risk of insolvency. Several former Cameo employees invoked WeWork when talking about their experience at Cameo.
Galanis met with Son on Zoom in February 2021. Son offered Cameo $400 million in cash — four times the company’s fundraising goal — and told Galanis to spend $100 million of it sponsoring the Tokyo Olympics, Galanis said. Instead, he stuck to Cameo’s target. A representative for SoftBank declined to comment.
The hot new funding round, announced in March 2021 — around the time COVID-19 vaccines rolled out widely — drew enough interest that Galanis and his co-founders sold a chunk of shares, a move that is sometimes frowned upon by investors and wasn’t disclosed to employees.
Galanis said he sold less than 12% of his shares — which could have been worth millions of dollars at the time — and that he remains the largest individual shareholder. (The co-founders each take a salary of no more than $150,000, he said.)
Rank-and-file employees were not permitted to sell, although outside investors such as Frankel were. She said she had gotten the sense that the app had peaked and sold her stake for a “seven-figure return,” including her video earnings.
With the new $1 billion valuation, the mood at Cameo was euphoric. The company rented a Beverly Hills mansion it called the “Cameo House” with a big deck and a pool for roughly $60,000 a month. Cameo was burning $5 million a month on its staff, travel, parties at the Cameo House, and expensive takeout for stars from chichi spots such as Sugarfish and Jon & Vinny’s.
The company regularly highlighted its celebrity investors such as Frankel. In 2021, it added Magic Johnson to its board.
The hype extended to equity. The message to employees, especially new hires, was that, unlike their 401(k)s, their payouts could make them rich. Some employees donned vests on their anniversary at Cameo in a nod to some shares vesting, two former staffers said.
But the business couldn’t grow fast enough from just video messages.
Cameo experimented with other ways to get people to pay for interactions with talent, including live events, real-time video calls and direct messages. It created Cameo for Business to pair celebrities with corporations for ads and speaking gigs, a promising division that was often shunted to the side in favor of ventures that involved fans.
An initiative called Project Blackbeard tried to woo bigger celebrities onto Cameo with upfront cash payments and minimum guarantees. But the deals were costly — Ian Somerhalder, an actor from the teen drama “Vampire Diaries,” received a six-figure sum, according to three former employees — and the stars often left once the contracts ended. Once other celebrities and agents got wind of the advances, many began demanding similar fees. Cameo ended the project. (Somerhalder did not reply to a request for comment; Cameo noted that he had since rejoined.)
Many major stars didn’t want to be on Cameo, except for the occasional charity event. It had a strong whiff of the D-list, and they didn’t want to be listed next to a pair of TikTok rappers called the Island Boys or the dermatologist known as Dr. Pimple Popper.
But Cameo was hungry for any piece of them. In October 2021, the company bought Represent, a Los Angeles business that helped celebrities and influencers sell customized goods to their fans. Represent had a star-studded roster, including Zayn Malik, Arnold Schwarzenegger and the cast of “Friends,” and Cameo hoped those clients might eventually start making videos.
It paid $25 million to $30 million, according to three people familiar with the deal, and took on debt for the first time to do so. The company celebrated with a “Friendsgiving” party at the Beverly Hills mansion in November, which featured dancers in gold costumes gyrating inside clear globes floating on its pool and guests such as Abdul and Perez Hilton.
But Cameo’s hopes to get in with Represent’s stars died quickly.
Malik was among celebrities who refused requests to join Cameo, two former employees said — and few of Cameo’s stars, with some exceptions such as internet sensation Corn Kid, ended up experimenting with Represent. The company said joining Cameo became a “friction point” for some Represent stars. (Malik did not reply to requests for comment.)
The failed experiments were one thing, but there was a bigger problem on the horizon as the company headed into 2022. People were simply not spending as much on Cameos as they had been before.
Throwing Spaghetti at the Wall
Cameo’s unsuccessful lurches into new products and growing internal stress put new scrutiny on Galanis and his unfocused management style. (The company said Galanis’ daily responsibilities “may not have been apparent to each employee,” particularly while they worked remotely.)
Weekly staff meetings featured a “Steven’s Thoughts” portion where he often discussed his weekends jet setting at Formula One races, the Cannes Lions festival and NCAA games. (Cameo said travel was not the primary focus of “Steven’s Thoughts.”) Sometimes he talked about Cameo’s plans to expand into the cryptocurrency business known as Web3, comparing the opportunity to Christopher Columbus’ exploration of the new world. He told some employees he was seeing a longevity doctor who had informed him that, despite being 35, he was biologically 44. (Being CEO has taken a huge toll on his health, he said in an interview.)
The newly expanded sales team was stuck in place, circling whatever person had just gone viral on TikTok or joined the cast of “Love Island.”
In early 2022, some talent reps began seeking out convicted fraudsters such as Simon Leviev, better known as the Tinder Swindler from Netflix, a con artist who scammed dozens of women out of millions of dollars on dating apps. (Cameo said felons were allowed on the app, including those in jail, so long as they were not subject to U.S. sanctions.)
Galanis and other company leaders promoted the Tinder Swindler on social media and touted the money they would make from him, outraging women at the company and later prompting one executive to issue a companywide apology on Slack, according to internal messages. One employee sent a Slack message flagging Billy McFarland of Fyre Festival notoriety and pharma villain Martin Shkreli for outreach, saying that “just in case they get out of jail early, we should be on top of it.” The Information earlier reported on the internal strife.
Some celebrities left, citing the arrival of Leviev and other polarizing characters, several employees said. Actress Alyssa Milano told the Times in a text message that she left Cameo after members of the Trump family joined in mid-2021, although she recently rejoined amid the Hollywood strikes. Last year, employees also complained after Cameo executives gave Represent the task of selling merchandise for Andrew Tate, a self-declared misogynist who has since been charged with rape and human trafficking.
Galanis, for his part, said he was annoyed by the reactions, blaming Cameo’s hiring spree for bringing on employees who didn’t share what he characterized as the company’s values around free speech.
“There was actually someone at an all-hands that said, ‘I feel Cameo is gaslighting me by letting Donald Trump Jr. on because his father killed my father,’” Galanis said. “Her dad had passed away from COVID. So that’s the type of just crazy activism that was happening at the company, and this wasn’t just one person.”
Cameo kept throwing spaghetti at the wall. Perhaps inevitably, it got in on crypto, with Cameo Pass, a new product that sold crypto-backed art known as non-fungible tokens alongside access to VIP parties.
The crypto push seemed to reflect the personal enthusiasms of the company’s founder as much as it did any business imperatives. About that time, Galanis showed off an NFT he had purchased on his own. It was a cartoon picture of a monkey wearing 3D glasses called a Bored Ape that cost him $320,000. Represent made him a pair of flip-flops bearing the image.
In March 2022, for the first time in four years, the Federal Reserve announced plans to raise interest rates, signaling that the free money chasing high-growth startups might be about to dry up. In May 2022, Cameo, which was still burning millions a month without the sales to show for it, laid off 87 people, or about one-fourth of its staff, citing overhiring and the market downturn. The party seemed over.
Except — the parties weren’t over. A few days after the cuts, Cameo threw a celebration in Miami for its NFT holders at a Star Island mansion with a red carpet, a row of sports cars and performances from Diplo, DJ Khaled and Fabolous. Current and former employees were outraged, although Cameo said the parties were paid for by the proceeds of its NFT sales.
Cameo’s crypto business brought in a few million dollars in revenue before the company shut it down, one year after it launched. The price of its NFTs, which initially sold for about $630, sunk as low as $7.60. Cameo had entered the market near its peak; a May 2022 crash wiped out $300 billion in one week. In July 2022, Cameo slashed its internal valuation of its common shares by 55%, according to an internal presentation viewed by the Times. In August 2022, hackers stole Galanis’ monkey art along with $70,000 worth of cryptocurrency.
Galanis tried to round up more cash this year, according to three people familiar with the situation, but investors were turned off by all the spending. A potential deal that would have let Cameo acquire a European competitor called Memmo fell through, according to two people familiar with the conversations. Memmo went bankrupt in August. Another investor, the private equity firm TPG, has had multiple conversations about investing this year but no deal is imminent, three people said.
‘Wouldn’t Wish It on Anybody’
Today, Cameo operates as a husk of its former self. Its nearly 400 employees have shrunk to 33, plus a handful of contractors, after three rounds of layoffs. Magic Johnson, who was paid for his role, left Cameo’s board after not fulfilling obligations that included making Cameo videos, promoting the service and attending board meetings, according to two people familiar with his exit. (Cameo said he left on good terms. Johnson didn’t reply to requests for comment.) Cameo gave up its Beverly Hills mansion, and Represent stopped taking new clients.
The all-star team of executives that Galanis put together is now almost entirely gone. “I had to fire some of my best friends,” he said. “I wouldn’t wish it on anybody, but my job as CEO is to make sure this business survives and fulfills our mission and vision.”
Cameo is wringing more money from the videos it started with, increasing its cut to 30% for new talent plus a new 10% service fee.
It also appears to be seeking out talent who might not even be considered D-list. Since 2020, more than 100,000 people had applied to sell videos on Cameo but were rejected for having small followings or unverified identities, Galanis said. Now, he said, Cameo “allows more of those people to get through.”
And it continues to seek new horizons. The company recently sponsored jerseys for a professional pickleball team that Galanis co-owns in Miami. Galanis said no funds from Cameo were used for the sponsorship.
Cameo is just one case study in the grim awakening for the startup sector writ large, and an especially familiar tale among pandemic darlings such as Zoom and Peloton that couldn’t maintain their rapid growth.
Galanis argued that Cameo was thriving and “absolutely” still on track to become the next Disney. Cameo turned its first monthly profit in August since May 2020, he said — but only excluding certain costs like interest and taxes. Revenue, which had not grown year over year since June 2021, rose in September. The Hollywood strikes gave the company a boost and investors were paying attention to its cost cutting, he said.
Galanis said his ambitions for Cameo hadn’t changed through it all. “I was put on Earth to build this company,” he said. “I’ll fight for it every day.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fund raising; Sales; Investments; Celebrities; Video recordings; Employees; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Sales Employees

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Soulja Boy; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Detroit Lions; Netflix Inc; Political Advertising; Tpg Capital; Slack Technologies Inc; Movies; Tyson, Mike; Gottfried, Gilbert; Celebrities; Cameo (Mobile App); Parties (Social); New York City; Disney, Walt; Alibaba Group Holding Ltd; Venture Capital; Seattle Seahawks; United States; Mobile Applications; Company Reports; Videophones And Videoconferen cing; PerezhiltonCom; Private Spaceflight; San Antonio Stars; Reality Television; Linkedin Corporation; Rodman, Dennis; Careers And Professions; Presidential Election Of 2020; Elections; Philanthropy; HuluCom; Credit And Debt; Rap And Hip Hop; Dancing; Gifts; Hilton, Perez; Vine Labs Inc; Son, Masayoshi; Telecommuting; Hiring And Promotion; Schwarzenegger, Christopher; Monkeys And Apes; Europe; Johnson, Earvin; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Private Equity; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Finances; Moore, Mandy; Harlow, Jack (Rapper); Dj Khaled; Internet Movie Database; Malik, Zayn; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Vanilla Ice; Fabolous; Virgin Galactic; Schwarzenegger, Arnold; Tinder (Mobile App); Akon; Executives And Management (Theory); Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Actors And Actresses; Cannes (France); Frauds And Swindling; Shutdowns (Institutional); News And News Media; YoutubeCom; Harrison, Chris (1971 ); Twitter; Facebook Inc; Workplace Environment; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); Text Messaging; Kenny G; Duke University; Tiktok (Bytedance); Wework Companies Inc; Stocks And Bonds; Abdul, Paula; Milano, Alyssa; Japan; Real Estate (Commercial); Walt Disney Company; Online Dating; Softbank Corporation; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Virtual Currency; Beverly Hills (Calif); Galanis, Steven; Television; National Broadcasting Co; Trump, Donald J; Zoom Video Communi cations; High Net Worth Individuals; Trump, Donald J Jr; Shatner, William; Philipps, Busy; Shkreli, Martin (1983 ); Hayut, Shimon (Simon Leviev); Names, Organizational; Boredom; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Favre, Brett; Pentz, Thomas (Diplo); Business; Chicago (Ill); Ray Llc; Spelling, Tori; Sugarfish (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Start Ups; New York Times; Anxiety And Stress; Snoop Dogg; Fans (Persons); Luxury Goods And Services; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Cameo to the Moon, and Back

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 21, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-21T19:30:52Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2879630004

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cameo-moon-back/docview/2879630004/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Clearview AI Wins Appeal To Avert Fine In the U.K.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/clearview-ai-wins-appeal-avert-fine-u-k/docview/2878960000/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The News
Clearview AI, a New York company that scraped billions of photos from the public internet to build a facial recognition app used by thousands of U.S. law enforcement agencies, will not have to pay a fine of 7.5 million pounds, or $ 9.1 million, issued by Britain's chief data protection agency. A British appeals court ruled this week that the agency does not have jurisdiction over how foreign law enforcement agencies use British citizens' data.
Why It Matters
Regulators in Australia, Canada and Europe have found that Clearview AI's collection of their citizens' data without consent, including from social media sites like Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn, violated their countries' privacy laws and ordered the company to delete their citizens' photos from its database. In addition to the British fine, data protection agencies in France, Italy and Greece each issued a fine of 20 million euros, or $ 21 million, against Clearview AI.
The fines are an existential threat for Clearview AI, which has raised just over $ 38 million from investors, but it may be able to get them overturned on the same grounds it argued in Britain, said James Moss, a London-based partner at Bird & Bird who specializes in data protection.
Reactions
Jack Mulcaire, a Clearview AI lawyer, said the company was "pleased" with the decision. The Information Commissioner's Office in Britain said in a statement that the judgment "does not remove the I.C.O.'s ability to act against companies based internationally who process data of people in the U.K., particularly businesses scraping data of people in the U.K." It noted that this case was "a specific exemption around foreign law enforcement."
A Warning
Privacy regulators are concerned about data harvested en masse from the internet. This summer, data protection agencies around the world issued a joint statement warning companies that scrape information from the public internet that the practice could violate privacy laws.
Multiple countries have found that Clearview AI's collection of citizens' data violated privacy laws. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMR ALFIKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Internet; Law enforcement; Privacy; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: Clearview AI Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/18/technology/clearview-ai-privacy-fine-britain.html

Title: Clearview AI Wins Appeal To Avert Fine In the U.K.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 20, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2878960000

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/clearview-ai-wins-appeal-avert-fine-u-k/docview/2878960000/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hamas's Social Media Ban Isn't Stopping Its Message: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Thompson, Stuart A; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Thompson, Stuart A; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hamass-social-media-ban-isnt-stopping-message/docview/2878598041/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hamas and Hamas-linked accounts are exploiting the challenge social media companies face in striking the right balance on moderation, experts say.
Hamas is barred from Facebook, removed from Instagram and run off TikTok. Yet posts supporting the group that carried out terrorist attacks in Israel this month are still reaching mass audiences on social networks, spreading gruesome footage and political messages to millions of people.
Several accounts sympathetic to Hamas have gained hundreds of thousands of followers across social platforms since the war between Israel and Hamas began on Oct. 7, according to a review by The New York Times.
One account on Telegram, the popular messaging app that has little moderation, reached more than 1.3 million followers this week, up from about 340,000 before the attacks. That account, Gaza Now, is aligned with Hamas, according to the Atlantic Council, a research group focused on international relations.
"We've seen Hamas content on Telegram, like bodycam footage of terrorists shooting at Israeli soldiers," said Jonathan A. Greenblatt, the chief executive of the Anti-Defamation League. "We've seen images not just on Telegram but on the other platforms of bloodied and dead soldiers."
Such posts are the latest challenge for technology companies as many of them try to minimize the spread of false or extremist content while preserving content that does not run afoul of their rules. In past conflicts, like the genocide in Myanmar or other attacks between Palestinians and Israel, social media companies struggled to strike the right balance, with watchdog groups criticizing their responses for being too limited or sometimes overzealous.
Experts said Hamas and Hamas-linked social media accounts were now exploiting those challenges to evade moderation and share their messages.
Most online platforms have a long banned terrorist organizations and extremist content. Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, YouTube and X (formerly Twitter) have banned accounts linked to Hamas or posts that are overtly sympathetic to its cause, saying they violate their content policies against extremism.
Gaza Now had more than 4.9 million followers on Facebook before it was banned last week, shortly after The Times contacted Meta, Facebook's parent company, about the account. Gaza Now did not post the kinds of gruesome content found on Telegram, but it did share accusations of wrongdoing against Israel and encouraged its Facebook followers to subscribe to its Telegram channel.
Gaza Now also had more than 800,000 collective followers across other social media sites before many of those accounts were also removed last week. Its YouTube channel had 50,000 followers but had not updated since the conflict began. The account was suspended on Tuesday.
In a statement, a spokesman for YouTube said Gaza Now violated the company's policies because the channel's owner had previously operated an account on YouTube that was terminated.
Telegram has emerged as the clearest launching pad for pro-Hamas messaging, experts said. Accounts there have shared videos of captured prisoners, dead bodies and destroyed buildings, with followers often responding with the thumbs-up emoji. In one instance, users directed one another to upload gruesome footage of Israeli civilians being shot to platforms like Facebook, TikTok, Twitter and YouTube. The comments also included suggestions on how to alter the footage to make it difficult for social media companies to easily find and remove it.
Telegram also hosts an official account for Al-Qassam Brigades, Hamas's military wing. Its follower count has tripled since the conflict began.
Pavel Durov, the chief executive of Telegram, wrote in a post last week that the company had removed "millions of obviously harmful content from our public platform." But he indicated that the app would not bar Hamas outright, saying those accounts "serve as a unique source of first-hand information for researchers, journalists, and fact-checkers."
"While it would be easy for us to destroy this source of information, doing so risks exacerbating an already dire situation," Mr. Durov wrote.
X, which Elon Musk owns, was overrun with falsehoods and extremist content almost as soon as the conflict began. Researchers at the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, which tracks hate and extremism online, found that in one 24-hour period, a collection of posts on X that supported terrorist activities received over 16 million views. The European Union said it would examine whether X violated a European law that required large social networks to stop the spread of harmful content. X did not respond to a request for comment.
Yet accounts not directly claimed by Hamas present thornier challenges for social media companies, and users have criticized the platforms for being overzealous in removing pro-Palestinian content.
Thousands of Palestinian supporters said Facebook and Instagram had suppressed or removed their posts, even when the messages did not break the platforms' rules. Others reported that Facebook had suppressed accounts that called for peaceful protests in cities around the United States, including planned sit-ins in the San Francisco area over the weekend.
Meta said in a blog post on Friday that Facebook could have inadvertently removed some content as it worked to respond to a surge in reports of content that violated the site's policies. Some of those posts were hidden because of an accidental bug in Instagram's systems that was not showing pro-Palestinian content on its Stories feature, the company said.
Masoud Abdulatti, a founder of a health care services company, MedicalHub, who lives in Amman, Jordan, said that Facebook and Instagram had blocked his posts supporting Palestinians, and that he had turned to LinkedIn to share support for civilians in Gaza who were trapped in the middle of the conflict.
"The people of the world are ignorant of the truth," Mr. Abdulatti said.
Eman Belacy, a copywriter who lives in Sharkia governorate in Egypt, noted that she normally used her LinkedIn account only for business networking but had begun posting about the war after she felt that Facebook and Instagram were not showing the full picture of the devastation in Gaza.
"It might not be the place to share war news, but excuse us, the mount of injustice and hypocrisy are unbearable," Ms. Belacy said.
The challenges reflect the blunt content moderation tools that social networks have increasingly relied on, said Kathleen Carley, a researcher and professor at the CyLab Security and Privacy Institute at Carnegie Mellon University.
Many companies, she said, rely on a blend of human moderators -- who can be quickly overrun during a crisis -- and some computer algorithms, with no coordination between platforms.
"Unless you do content moderation consistently, for the same story across all the major platforms, you're just playing Whac-a-Mole," Ms. Carley said. "It's going to resurface."
Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.
Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.
Photograph A Palestinian living in Lebanon took part in a protest in Beirut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HASSAN AMMAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A9.

Subject: Extremism; Bans; Content management; Demonstrations & protests; International relations; Palestinian people

Business indexing term: Subject: International relations

Location: Gaza Strip; Israel

People: Frenkel, Sheera

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/18/technology/hamas-social-media-accounts.html

Title: Hamas's Social Media Ban Isn't Stopping Its Message:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 19, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2878598041

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hamass-social-media-ban-isnt-stopping-message/docview/287 8598041/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

I Don't Have to Tweet About My Outrage. Neither Do You.: [Op-Ed]

Author: Spiers, Elizabeth

Publication info: Spiers, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-dont-have-tweet-about-my-outrage-neither-do-you/docview/2878191817/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I am neither Jewish nor Palestinian, and none of my six regular gigs have anything to do with foreign policy, but the other day I opened Twitter (now called X) after some time offline to find people I don't know demanding that I make a public statement about what's happening in the Middle East. It seemed that most of the people on social media had made a statement, including various corporate brands, celebrities and miscellaneous lifestyle influencers. American Eagle's chief marketing officer posted to LinkedIn that the company had changed its Times Square billboard to an image of the Israeli flag. "Praying for Israel," Justin Bieber posted on Instagram, over an image (later deleted) of what was actually Gaza.
But not everyone was taking a side. As I scrolled through my timeline, I saw lots of random citizens being told that if they didn't speak out, they, too, would have blood on their hands.
People speaking from both the right and the left seemed to attribute my silence to depraved indifference to human suffering, though they were divided on which humans were suffering. As it happens, I had been dealing with shingles (zero stars, do not recommend) and the depression I struggle with periodically. I was tired and overwhelmed, as are a great many other people. But the voices yelling at me and anyone else who failed to post seemed to believe that not making a statement was itself a statement -- and an immoral one, at that.
There's a facile version of taking a stand on social media that generates righteous back patting but reduces complex issues to a simple yes or no. Taking simplistic stands can also lead to twisting words. Concern for Palestinians is portrayed as support for Hamas or hatred toward Israel or Jews in general. Anger about Hamas's deadly attacks on Israeli citizens -- or any mention of antisemitism -- is portrayed as denigrating the dignity of all Palestinian lives. This kind of thinking is deeply unserious and further fuels hostilities, warping nuanced positions into extremism and mistaking tweet-length expressions of outrage for brave action in the face of atrocity.
When institutions offered statements that expressed sorrow for the loss of both Israeli and Palestinian lives, some constituents and customers demanded a revision that explicitly condemned their preferred villain. If these institutional voices stayed silent, it was considered newsworthy. "Six days after Hamas's horrific terror attacks on Israel," a reporter at Women's Wear Daily wrote last Thursday, "many major players in the beauty -- and overall fashion -- industry have remained largely silent in support of the victims on both sides of the conflict." Did we really need or want to hear from L'Oréal or LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton?
The impulse toward loud, reductive declarations reflects genuine fear about horrors that lie beyond words. Simple binaries imply simple solutions. And it's much more pleasant to tell yourself you stand on the side of good, against evil, than to question whether the lines of demarcation were drawn correctly.
Sitting with uncertainty is hard, especially when social media has primed us to expect perfect real-time information during traumatic events and to want instantaneous answers and resolution. Moral certainty is an anchor we cling to when factual certainty is not possible. And the faster we express it, the more certain we appear. The most righteous among us post -- and do it immediately.
Knee-jerk social media posts are not what bother me most, though. Instead, it's the idea that not posting is wrong somehow -- that everyone needs to speak, all the time. It discourages shutting up and listening and letting the voices that matter the most be heard over the din. It implies it's not OK to have any uncertainty about what's going on or any kind of moral analysis that does not lend itself to presentation in a social media post. It does not leave time or space for people to process traumatic events in the sanctuary of their own minds or to gather more information before pronouncing a judgment. It pressures people who don't have an opinion yet or are working out what they think to manufacture one and present it to a jury of total strangers on the internet who will render an instant verdict on its propriety.
I do have opinions, of course, but they don't fit in a tweet (and would be extremely awkward on TikTok). I think Hamas is a terrorist group and Israel has a right to defend itself. I lived in Manhattan on Sept. 11, and even so, I can't imagine the grief and terror Jewish people feel right now in the face of continued attacks and rising antisemitism globally. I also think that the Israeli state should not be allowed to conflate Hamas with Gaza or to cut off electricity and access to food and medical supplies to civilians who are trapped in Gaza or to justify those acts by claiming that Palestinians who live there -- about half of whom are children -- can just leave when they plainly can't. If the destruction of Gaza is not the goal, it is a very real possibility, and that should be equally unacceptable.
Are these opinions helpful? Useful? Interesting? And if so, to whom?
I'm not a member of Alcoholics Anonymous, but a passage in the book "Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions" seems applicable here. "Nothing pays off like restraint of tongue and pen," writes A.A.'s co-founder Bill Wilson. "We must avoid quick-tempered criticism and furious, power-driven arguments," which he calls "emotional booby traps baited with pride and vengefulness." I'll admit I have posted on social media from a place of pride and vengeance, and as a writer, I'm perhaps less conditioned to practice restraint of pen and avoidance of arguments. But thoughtful criticism is my goal, and while I've regretted posting half-formed thoughts too quickly, I've never regretted waiting until I was less angry or not posting at all.
In an environment where people are led to believe they should post or blurt out simplistic opinions, they will, for fear that others will think they're not informed enough, they don't care enough or their moral compass has been demagnetized. But a reactionary social media post tells you nothing about what they really think or know, cheapens the discourse and impedes progress. It's sloganeering masquerading as moral clarity.
Elizabeth Spiers, a contributing Opinion writer, is a journalist and digital media strategist.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page A22.

Subject: Antisemitism; Social networks; Palestinian people

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Gaza Strip; Israel

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/17/opinion/social-media-israel-palestine.html

Title: I Don't Have to Tweet About My Outrage. Neither Do You.:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 18, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2878191817

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-dont-have-tweet-about-my-outrage-neither-do-you/docview/2878191817/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2878191816/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: SOCIAL MEDIA
LinkedIn to Cut 668 Jobs
In 2nd Round This Year
LinkedIn, the professional social networking platform owned by Microsoft, said on Monday that it would cut about 668 jobs, or roughly 3 percent of its work force.
The layoffs, which affect LinkedIn's engineering, product, talent and finance teams, are the second round this year. In May, LinkedIn laid off 716 employees worldwide and said it was reducing its business in China, citing declining demand.
LinkedIn, which has 19,500 employees across 36 offices globally, did not detail the reasons for the job cuts on Monday.
In July, LinkedIn said its revenue for the three months that ended in June had grown 5 percent from a year earlier, with annual revenue surpassing $ 15 billion for the first time. The rise was driven by its recruiting business, according to Microsoft. LinkedIn has 950 million users, a number that has increased for eight consecutive quarters. YIWEN LU
AUTOMOBILES
G.M. Delays Production
Of Electric Pickup Truck
General Motors will delay electric pickup truck production at a factory near Detroit because of slowing U.S. demand for electric vehicles, to better manage its capital investments and to make some engineering changes.
The company said in a statement Tuesday that the factory in Orion Township, Mich., will start making electric Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups in late 2025, instead of next year.
G.M. spokesman Kevin Kelly said the change had nothing to do with the ongoing four-week partial strike by members of the United Auto Workers union. He said the company wanted to make engineering changes that would improve the trucks' profitability.
About 1,000 workers at the Orion plant will keep building the Chevrolet Bolt hatchback small electric car and Bolt electric utility vehicle through the end of this year as planned, the company said. ASSOCIATED PRESS
AVIATION
Rolls-Royce Overhaul
Will Mean 2,500 Layoffs
The jet engine maker Rolls-Royce said Tuesday it would cut up to 2,500 jobs globally as part of a corporate overhaul that its new chief executive is carrying out.
The aerospace company was hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic that decimated demand for air travel. Tufan Erginbilgic, who took over as chief executive in January, said the layoffs were aimed at making Rolls-Royce "more streamlined and efficient."
Rolls-Royce, based in Britain, did not disclose where jobs would be cut, but around half of its 42,000-person work force is based in the United Kingdom.
The company slashed 9,000 jobs globally in 2020 as it grappled with the collapse of air travel during the pandemic.
The turnaround plan also includes creating a new companywide procurement division that can take advantage of Rolls-Royce's size to cut costs and reduce supply chain delays.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By Yiwen Lu and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Air travel; Layoffs; Electric vehicles; Employment; Pandemics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Employment Social networks

Location: United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/16/business/18bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2878191816

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2878191816/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Holiday Hiring Signals a Cooling Labor Market: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/holiday-hiring-signals-cooling-labor-market/docview/2876809796/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After scrambling to fill out work forces in recent years, many companies are reporting more modest goals for temporary employment.
As the most important selling season for retailers approaches, job applicants may feel a chill.
Macy's and Dick's Sporting Goods plan to hire fewer seasonal workers after a surge in the past two years, when shoppers thronged to stores after pandemic lockdowns and employers struggled to keep up. Many retailers have dropped the incentives they used over the past few years to bring workers in the doors, such as signing or referral bonuses and steeper employee discounts.
The career site Indeed said that searches for seasonal jobs were up 19 percent from last year, but that listed positions were down 6 percent. Companies helping businesses find temporary workers note that major retailers have been slower to release hiring plans this year. And on Indeed, fewer job postings are described as urgent needs.
Seasonal hiring helps retailers handle the increased shopping during the fourth quarter, often referred to as "peak season." Sales in November and December can account for a quarter of some retailers' annual revenue. In the weeks leading up to Christmas, foot traffic in stores and online shopping are usually at their height.
Early estimates point to an increase in retail spending this holiday season, but not at the fast pace of recent years.
Some economists and consultants see the trends in hiring and pay as a sign that the red-hot labor market of the past couple of years has cooled. Retailers' work forces, unsteady throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, are starting to stabilize. As inflation erodes shoppers' budgets and confidence -- and savings from pandemic relief programs are drawn down -- the hiring plans may be part of a cautious approach that extends to inventories and sales projections.
"The seasonal hiring market looks a whole lot more like 2019 than those pandemic bounce-back years," said Nick Bunker, director of North American economic research for Indeed. "I really do think this is emblematic broadly of what we're seeing in the U.S. labor market, where demand for workers overall is fairly strong but down from where it was in the last year and a half."
Macy's is aiming to hire 38,000 workers, 3,000 below its 2022 plan. In 2021, Macy's said it aimed to hire 76,000 people -- in both permanent roles and seasonal jobs -- during the holiday season. Of those positions, 48,000 were temporary.
Dick's said it would hire up to 8,600 seasonal workers, down from targets of 9,000 last year and 10,000 in 2021 -- and up only slightly from 8,000 in 2019.
Target and United Parcel Service plan to hire the same number of workers as last year, about 100,000 each. In a statement, Target said its seasonal associates would supplement the hiring it had done throughout the year to staff up its stores and supply chain facilities.
"This year, we are starting the season with stability in our work force and a continued commitment to scheduling flexibility for our team, which has helped us retain team members and create a more experienced work force," the company said in a post on its blog.
Walmart, the nation's biggest retailer, echoed that sentiment.
"I'm also excited that we're staffed and ready to serve customers this holiday season," Maren Dollwet Waggoner, senior vice president of people at Walmart U.S., said in a post on LinkedIn. "We've been hiring throughout the year to be sure we're ready to serve customers however they want to shop."
A Walmart spokeswoman added that if a store had additional staffing needs during the holiday season, it would offer extra hours to current employees before looking externally. Walmart did not say how many seasonal workers it planned to hire this year, as it did in years past. (In 2022, it said it was looking to fill 40,000 seasonal positions, including truck drivers and call center workers.)
Amazon is a notable exception, saying it will hire more seasonal workers this year -- 250,000, up from 150,000 last year. It also said that a $ 1.3 billion investment would bring the average hourly wage of those jobs to more than $ 20.50 and that it would still offer signing bonuses in some locations.
Matching staffing to demand helps ensure that retailers eke out as many sales as they can.
Seasonal workers are "the folks that are on the front lines of their business," said John Long, North America retail sector leader at the consulting firm Korn Ferry, adding that aside from a store's inventory, they "are going to be the make-or-break piece of the equation of whether the retailer makes their numbers or they don't."
After paring their work forces during the worst of the pandemic, employers in the retail and hospitality industries scrambled to fill open positions as workers sought more flexibility, switched companies frequently or stood on the sidelines. To get back to prepandemic staffing, retailers have used evergreen requisitions -- continually displayed postings advertising essential roles that often need to be filled -- and have started hiring seasonal workers as early as August.
They have also given more hours to part-time workers and relaxed qualifications. To reduce turnover, many companies have bumped up their base wages for hourly positions.
These factors have complicated the explanation for reduced seasonal hiring this year, said Melissa Hassett, a vice president at Manpower Group who works with large retailers, logistics and distributors across the country.
"If you're always hiring, you're just not going to see an increase in postings happen very often," she said. "So sometimes when you look at the increase in postings for retail it's not as accurate as you think it is."
But there is also a feeling that the leverage of retail job applicants will fade.
"In the past it felt like the workers had a lot more upper hand in terms of being able to demand what they need," Yong Kim, founder of the staffing platform Wonolo, said. That dynamic has changed, especially for temporary positions.
"There is definitely more tightening around companies wanting to hold off on hiring unless they really need to" and waiting to see how the fourth quarter pans out, Mr. Kim said.
Photograph Macy's aims to hire 38,000 seasonal workers for the holiday period, 3,000 below its 2022 plan. Many retailers have dropped incentives used to fill jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Workforce planning; Retail stores; Hiring; Seasonal employment; Employment; Pandemics; Seasons; Labor market; Discount department stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Retail stores Hiring Seasonal employment Employment Labor market Discount department stores

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Macys Inc; NAICS: 445110, 455110; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/13/business/economy/retail-seasonal-hiring.html

Title: Holiday Hiring Signals a Cooling Labor Market:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 14, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2876809796

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/holiday-hiring-signals-cooling-labor-market/docview/2876809796/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Chinese Bitcoin Mines in U.S. Fuel Suspicions: [National Desk]

Author: Gabriel J.X. Dance; Forsythe, Michael

Publication info: Gabriel J.X. Dance; Forsythe, Michael. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinese-bitcoin-mines-u-s-fuel-suspicions/docview/2876809744/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When a company with Chinese origins broke ground last year on a crypto-mining operation in Cheyenne, Wyo., a team at Microsoft that assesses national security threats sounded the alarm.
Not only was the site next door to a Microsoft data center that supported the Pentagon -- it was about a mile away from an Air Force base that controlled nuclear-armed intercontinental ballistic missiles.
The location could allow the Chinese to "pursue full-spectrum intelligence collection operations," the Microsoft team wrote in an August 2022 report to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a federal body that monitors threats posed by overseas investors.
Microsoft's warning did not go unheeded. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, U.S. government officials told The New York Times last week that they had been tracking the Wyoming operation for months. One official said that measures had been taken to mitigate potential intelligence collection but declined to elaborate. In addition, the mining company said it responded to queries from the federal investment committee.
The national security concerns about the Wyoming site, previously unreported, reflect a broader unease about a recent surge in Chinese Bitcoin mines across the country.
Aside from intelligence-gathering worries, the mines, which are large warehouses or containers packed with specialized computers, put immense pressure on power grids. The computers typically run around the clock while "mining" for the digital coins, the most popular among the various cryptocurrencies.
Brian Harrell, a former assistant secretary for infrastructure protection at the Department of Homeland Security during the Trump administration, said the operations could place "enormous stress" on the grid if the mines worked in concert to wreak havoc.
Possibilities include targeted blackouts and cyberattacks.
If Chinese "infrastructure impacts key energy systems," Mr. Harrell said, "it should immediately draw additional investigation and scrutiny."
In at least 12 states, including Arkansas, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas and Wyoming, The Times identified Chinese-owned or -operated Bitcoin mines that together use as much energy as 1.5 million homes. At full capacity, the Cheyenne, Wyo., mine alone would require enough electricity to power 55,000 houses.
Many of the mines are equipped with computers made by Bitmain, a Chinese company that has no apparent direct connection to the Chinese authorities but, according to import records, has sent some shipments to the United States through a subsidiary located at a Communist Party site in southern China.
Since Bitcoin mining was banned in China in May 2021 over concerns about energy usage and economic destabilization, Bitmain has shipped 15 times more equipment to the United States than it did in the previous five years combined, the records show. A recent presentation by the company claimed it controlled 90 percent of the global market for the equipment, which is specially designed for Bitcoin mining.
Some of the U.S. mining operations appear to be straightforward efforts by wealthy Chinese nationals to make money outside the purview of Chinese authorities. For others the ownership is opaque, while several can be traced to the Chinese government.
Court documents show the mine in Cheyenne is linked to five companies, all using the same office on Park Avenue in Manhattan. One of them is registered in the Cayman Islands and until last year was a Chinese pork-processing company. The Times did not find any links between the owners of the Cheyenne mine and the Chinese government or Communist Party.
"Microsoft has no direct indications of malicious activities by this entity," Microsoft said in its 16-page report. "However, pending further discovery, we suggest the possibility that the computing power of an industrial-level cryptomining operation, along with the presence of an unidentified number of Chinese nationals in direct proximity to Microsoft's Data Center and one of three strategic-missile bases in the U.S., provides significant threat vectors."
The new risks come amid a steep rise in Bitcoin mining in the United States. Earlier this year, a Times investigation found that operations were consuming about 4,000 megawatts -- enough to power over three million U.S. households -- and that more megawatts were continuously coming online.
The operations' vast energy consumption, combined with their ability to turn on or off almost instantly, is unique among large power users. The combination allows many to participate in programs that pay them to shut down when a grid is under strain.
That flexibility can help keep the lights on, but it can also disrupt the delicate balance grids require. In Texas, the state grid operator recently disclosed that some mines' unpredictable behavior could result in "emergency conditions."
Many mines also have digital connections with grid operators that -- if inappropriately managed -- could allow intrusions into critical systems.
Bitmain's dominance of the mining machine market has raised fears. In the past, researchers found "back doors" that would have allowed the company to covertly operate its equipment. After one was discovered in 2017, the company confirmed it could have remotely controlled its mining machines. A similar issue was found in 2019. The company did not respond to questions about vulnerabilities in its devices.
In July this year, an official with the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, which oversees protection of the power grid, told Congress about the growing threat of Chinese cyberattacks. And a recent report from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence warned that if China felt a major conflict with the U.S. was imminent, "it almost certainly would consider undertaking aggressive cyber operations against U.S. homeland critical infrastructure."
The Chertoff Group, a prominent security advisory firm, has been approached by several "critical infrastructure providers" for advice about the risks posed by Bitcoin miners, particularly those owned by the Chinese, said Ben Joelson, one of the firm's security experts.
In many parts of the country, the frustration is palpable.
"We're all worked up over TikTok, but nobody seems to be saying anything about these Chinese companies connecting to our grids," said Bryan King, a Republican state senator in Arkansas whose district includes the city of Harrison, where a Chinese investment group has purchased land for a Bitcoin mine. "It just doesn't make sense."
Companies Within Companies
Across the United States, the identities of the Chinese mines' owners are often hidden in a maze of shell companies that are themselves owned by shell companies. In several instances, the actual owners have ties to the Chinese Communist Party, the government or state-owned entities, records show.
In Cheyenne, a lawsuit over a disputed contract revealed that Bitmain, the Chinese computer maker, was a participant in the mine near the Air Force base. It is also involved in mining operations in Arkansas and Washington State, according to interviews and public statements.
The company's exports to the United States have been routed over the past 15 months through a subsidiary, Hainan Bitmain Technologies, which lists its address as a Communist Party guesthouse in Wanning, a city on the eastern part of Hainan, according to records from Import Genius, a trade data aggregator.
Zhang Xinyu, an employee named as the point of contact in corporate records, said that the Bitmain subsidiary was no longer at the guesthouse, and that local governments in China vying to attract businesses offered temporary addresses so they could quickly set up shop.
"And any company can rent this location, it's just a hotel with many rooms," the employee added in an email. "There's no other reason."
But it is a very unusual arrangement. Guesthouses are typically reserved for official functions or retreats by party officials. Of the tens of millions of registered companies in China, fewer than 150 list an address at a Communist Party guesthouse, according to a search of records collected by Sayari, a company that compiles corporate information, and many of them are state-owned enterprises.
Li Jiaming, president of Bit Origin Ltd., the pork processor turned Bitcoin miner, said investors chose the site because they had secured an agreement from the local utility company to provide it with power, not because they were seeking proximity to the Microsoft data center or the missile base. "Even though we are a Microsoft neighbor and a couple of miles from the base, without power it is nothing -- the business cannot succeed," he said in an interview.
Also in Cheyenne, records show, another Chinese company involved in Bitcoin mining bought a separate plot of land near the Microsoft data center.
The company, YZY Capital Holdings, is registered at a $ 7.5 million condo in the TriBeCa neighborhood of Manhattan and is controlled by Yuan Qian, a Chinese businessman and Communist Party member whose biography says he has served on a government advisory panel in Wuhan. He oversees a sprawling conglomerate that owns car dealerships, a biotechnology company and financial firms.
Mr. Yuan's company sold another lot in Cheyenne to the investment group that had raised concerns at Microsoft, according to the lawsuit. His company also owns a Bitcoin mine in eastern Oklahoma, near the small town of Oktaha. There, the local utility recently built a substation that accommodates the mine, which uses more power than 41,000 homes. In nearby Muskogee, Mr. Yuan paid nearly $ 2 million for a 126-acre lot. He did not respond to a request for comment.
Across the state line in Arkansas, Chinese investors operate at least three mines, with plans for several more. Outside Greenbrier, about an hour's drive north of Little Rock, one of the mines has sparked a backlash from neighbors.
The site consists of more than 20 Antboxes, which are specialized shipping containers made by Bitmain to house hundreds of its computers. It consumes more power than the nearby town.
There are at least eight companies with ties to the site. Public records obtained by residents opposed to the mine revealed connections to a Shanghai real estate business that is nearly half-owned by the Chinese government. The company, Greenland Holdings, has more than $ 7 billion in investments in the United States.
The president of its U.S. subsidiary, Hu Gang, has visited Arkansas, according to records obtained by the residents. On LinkedIn, a former employee, Gloria Yao, wrote of being part of his team and scouring "over 200 target mining sites" while connecting with electric utilities and chambers of commerce in more than 10 states. The post was removed after residents began questioning the company's motives. She declined to speak to The Times, citing a nondisclosure agreement, and Mr. Hu did not respond to requests for comment.
When Mr. Hu's company bought land in Harrison, Ark., for another Bitcoin mine, some residents attended a contentious public meeting and asked about connections to China.
A manager at the mine in Greenbrier, Ethan Wang, took the microphone.
"I'm not a Communist," he said, according to a video recording.
'We Chose America'
In recent years, several states passed or proposed legislation restricting Chinese land ownership because of security concerns, but significant Bitcoin operations with Chinese ties continue to operate in some of them.
None is more prominent than Texas.
In June 2021, Gov. Greg Abbott signed the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act, banning companies owned by foreign adversaries from running a business that would give them access to critical infrastructure. China is the first country named as an adversary in the bill.
Days earlier, Blue Safari Group Acquisition Corp. began trading shares in New York. Its biggest shareholder, according to securities filings, was Yuet Bun Wu.
Hong Kong records show that Ms. Wu is married to a prominent businessman and political operative who serves on an advisory body to China's legislature in Beijing. Her husband, Shie Tak Chung, has praised the Communist Party's harsh crackdown on civil liberties in Hong Kong, and weeks after the Texas law was signed, he decried "anti-China forces in Europe and the United States."
Blue Safari ceased to exist this April, when it merged with Bitdeer Technologies Group, one of the biggest cryptocurrency mining operations in Texas. The company is controlled by Wu Jihan, a major cryptocurrency pioneer from China and one of the original founders of Bitmain. Mr. Wu, 37, has parted ways with Bitmain and left China, setting up Bitdeer in Singapore, where he is now a citizen.
The company has a 563-megawatt operation, originally run by Bitmain, in a former aluminum-smelting plant about an hour from Austin. (It also has outfits in Tennessee and Washington State.)
Republican officials in Texas are deeply suspicious of China and its ruling party. But their embrace of Chinese-linked Bitcoin mining companies, including the largest in the United States, speaks to the deep appeal of cryptocurrencies in conservative circles, where suspicions of central banks run high.
"I want Texas to be an oasis for Bitcoin and crypto," Senator Ted Cruz, a Republican, said at a Bitcoin conference in April, speaking broadly about the technology. "I want everyone to come to Texas."
The state has lucrative incentives that have made it the most popular destination for Bitcoin miners in the country. One program pays cryptocurrency miners for agreeing to shut off their computers when the grid is on the brink of failure, such as during the record-breaking heat wave that hit the state this past summer. Since 2020, Bitdeer has been awarded nearly $ 50 million from this arrangement, according to data published by the grid operator. Those payments are subsidized by Texas ratepayers.
Responding to questions from The Times, a Bitdeer representative said the company was previously unaware of Ms. Wu's family connection to the Chinese government. "Any indication that we are influenced by or connected to the Chinese government is false and wrong," the representative said in an email.
Serena Shie, the daughter of Ms. Wu and Mr. Shie, said she served as an officer at Blue Safari and had used an inactive business owned by her mother to help set up acquisition companies. In an interview, she said that her parents were not engaged in the Bitcoin deal, and that she was "not even sure" they knew about it. "I don't get involved in anything political," she said.
The influx of mining in Texas has already begun to affect the state grid, one of the most vulnerable in the country because it is unconnected to others outside the state.
The grid's operator, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, recently reported that Bitcoin mines' energy consumption and lack of transparency had resulted in forecasting errors. The mines can "magnify the severity of grid events," impacting reliability, the company said.
One proposal to reduce this risk is to regulate how fast the mines can start or stop using energy. Unlike power generators and transmission companies, Bitcoin mines are almost wholly unregulated and operate in a "gray area," according to Howard Gugel, a vice president at NERC, the body tasked with protecting the U.S. grid.
Chinese cryptocurrency mines have quickly entrenched themselves in Texas and are learning to adapt to its politics.
One company, Poolin, set up by a Bitmain veteran, runs a pair of mines in West Texas that together can draw on as much as 600 megawatts of energy, enough to power nearly half a million U.S. homes. The company's founder, Kevin Pan, is a Chinese citizen who has celebrated the warm embrace he and his company have received in Texas.
At a company celebration last year, he was seen wearing a cowboy hat and challenging guests to a one-armed push-up contest.
"I feel so lucky we chose Texas," Mr. Pan said. "We chose America."
Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting. Video produced by James Surdam.
Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting. Video produced by James Surdam.
Photograph A Bit Origin Ltd. operation in Wyoming near an Air Force base. (A1); The Bitcoin mine in Cheyenne, Wyo., is next door to a Microsoft data center that supports the Pentagon. Another Chinese company has bought land nearby.; A planned Bitcoin mine in Cheyenne. The national security concerns reflect a broader unease about a recent surge in Chinese Bitcoin mines. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN SPERANZA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); In Arkansas, Chinese investors have at least three Bitcoin mines, with plans for several more. A mine outside Greenbrier has created a backlash from neighbors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RORY DOYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Computer centers; Computers; Infrastructure; National security; Electricity distribution; Political parties; Digital currencies; Energy consumption; Intelligence gathering; Blockchain; Warehouses

Business indexing term: Subject: Computer centers Infrastructure Digital currencies Blockchain Warehouses

Location: Wyoming; Texas; United States--US; Arkansas; China; Oklahoma

Company / organization: Name: Microsoft Corp; NAICS: 334610, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/13/us/bitcoin-mines-china-united-states.html

Title: Chinese Bitcoin Mines in U.S. Fuel Suspicions:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 202 3

Publication date: Oct 14, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2876809744

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinese-bitcoin-mines-u-s-fuel-suspicions/docview/2876809744/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-16

Database: Global Newsst ream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Retailers’ Seasonal Hiring Plans Signal a Cooling Labor Market

Author: Holman, Jordyn

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/retailers-seasonal-hiring-plans-signal-cooling/docview/2876764517/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
As the most important selling season for retailers approaches, job applicants may feel a chill.
Macy’s and Dick’s Sporting Goods plan to hire fewer seasonal workers after a surge in the past two years, when shoppers thronged to stores after pandemic lockdowns and employers struggled to keep up. Many retailers have dropped the incentives they used over the past few years to bring workers in the doors, such as signing or referral bonuses and steeper employee discounts.
The career site Indeed said that searches for seasonal jobs were up 19% from last year, but that listed positions were down 6%. Companies helping businesses find temporary workers note that major retailers have been slower to release hiring plans this year. And on Indeed, fewer job postings are described as urgent needs.
Seasonal hiring helps retailers handle the increased shopping during the fourth quarter, often referred to as “peak season.” Sales in November and December can account for one-quarter of some retailers’ annual revenue. In the weeks leading up to Christmas, foot traffic in stores and online shopping are usually at their height.
Early estimates point to an increase in retail spending this holiday season, but not at the fast pace of recent years.
Some economists and consultants see the trends in hiring and pay as a sign that the red-hot labor market of the past couple of years has cooled. Retailers’ workforces, unsteady throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, are starting to stabilize. As inflation erodes shoppers’ budgets and confidence — and savings from pandemic relief programs are drawn down — the hiring plans may be part of a cautious approach that extends to inventories and sales projections.
“The seasonal hiring market looks a whole lot more like 2019 than those pandemic bounce-back years,” said Nick Bunker, director of North American economic research for Indeed. “I really do think this is emblematic broadly of what we’re seeing in the U.S. labor market, where demand for workers overall is fairly strong but down from where it was in the last year and a half.”
Macy’s is aiming to hire 38,000 workers, 3,000 below its 2022 plan. In 2021, Macy’s said it aimed to hire 76,000 people — in both permanent roles and seasonal jobs — during the holiday season. Of those positions, 48,000 were temporary.
Dick’s said it would hire up to 8,600 seasonal workers, down from targets of 9,000 last year and 10,000 in 2021 — and up only slightly from 8,000 in 2019.
Target and UPS plan to hire the same number of workers as last year, about 100,000 each. In a statement, Target said its seasonal associates would supplement the hiring it had done throughout the year to staff up its stores and supply chain facilities.
“This year, we are starting the season with stability in our workforce and a continued commitment to scheduling flexibility for our team, which has helped us retain team members and create a more experienced workforce,” the company said in a post on its blog.
Walmart, the nation’s biggest retailer, echoed that sentiment.
“I’m also excited that we’re staffed and ready to serve customers this holiday season,” Maren Dollwet Waggoner, senior vice president of people at Walmart U.S., said in a post on LinkedIn. “We’ve been hiring throughout the year to be sure we’re ready to serve customers however they want to shop.”
A Walmart spokesperson added that if a store had additional staffing needs during the holiday season, it would offer extra hours to current employees before looking externally. Walmart did not say how many seasonal workers it planned to hire this year, as it did in years past. (In 2022, it said it was looking to fill 40,000 seasonal positions, including truck drivers and call center workers.)
Amazon is a notable exception, saying it will hire more seasonal workers this year — 250,000, up from 150,000 last year. It also said that a $1.3 billion investment would bring the average hourly wage of those jobs to more than $20.50 and that it would still offer signing bonuses in some locations.
Matching staffing to demand helps ensure that retailers eke out as many sales as they can.
Seasonal workers are “the folks that are on the front lines of their business,” said John Long, North America retail sector leader at the consulting firm Korn Ferry, adding that aside from a store’s inventory, they “are going to be the make-or-break piece of the equation of whether the retailer makes their numbers or they don’t.”
After paring their workforces during the worst of the pandemic, employers in the retail and hospitality industries scrambled to fill open positions as workers sought more flexibility, switched companies frequently or stood on the sidelines. To get back to pre-pandemic staffing, retailers have used evergreen requisitions — continually displayed postings advertising essential roles that often need to be filled — and have started hiring seasonal workers as early as August.
They have also given more hours to part-time workers and relaxed qualifications. To reduce turnover, many companies have bumped up their base wages for hourly positions.
These factors have complicated the explanation for reduced seasonal hiring this year, said Melissa Hassett, a vice president at Manpower Group who works with large retailers, logistics and distributors across the country.
“If you’re always hiring, you’re just not going to see an increase in postings happen very often,” she said. “So sometimes when you look at the increase in postings for retail it’s not as accurate as you think it is.”
But there is also a feeling that the leverage of retail job applicants will fade.
“In the past it felt like the workers had a lot more upper hand in terms of being able to demand what they need,” Yong Kim, founder of the staffing platform Wonolo, said. That dynamic has changed, especially for temporary positions.
“There is definitely more tightening around companies wanting to hold off on hiring unless they really need to” and waiting to see how the fourth quarter pans out, Kim said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Workforce planning; Retail stores; Workers; Hiring; Seasonal employment; Seasons; Pandemics; Discount department stores; Labor market

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Retail stores Workers Hiring Seasonal employment Discount department stores Labor market

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Bonuses; Linkedin Corporation; Hiring And Promotion; Shopping And Retail; Part Time Employment; AmazonCom Inc; Target Corporation; United Parcel Service Inc; Labor And Jobs; North America; Business; Temporary Employment; United States; Company Reports; Careers And Professions; Holidays And Special Occasions; Telephones And Telecommunications; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); IndeedCom; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Walmart Stores Inc; Manpower Inc; Supply Chain

Title: Retailers’ Seasonal Hiring Plans Signal a Cooling Labor Market

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 13, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-13T22:35:10Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2876764517

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/retailers-seasonal-hiring-plans-signal-cooling/docview/2876764517/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Helped Write a Research Paper. Most of Them Want It to Be Retracted.: [National Desk]

Author: Chang, Kenneth

Publication info: Chang, Kenneth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-helped-write-research-paper-most-them-want/docview/2870653659/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ranga Dias, the University of Rochester physicist who led the research, continued to defend the findings.
A team of 11 scientists reported in March in the journal Nature that they had discovered a room-temperature superconductor. Eight of those scientists have now asked Nature to retract their paper.
That pits them against the man who led the research: Ranga P. Dias, a professor of mechanical engineering and physics at the University of Rochester in New York. In the past few years, Dr. Dias has made several extraordinary scientific claims, but he has also been embroiled in a series of allegations of scientific misconduct.
The retraction request will add to the scrutiny of Dr. Dias and Unearthly Materials, a company that Dr. Dias founded to turn the superconductivity discoveries into commercial products. Unearthly Materials has raised $ 16.5 million from investors.
It also raises questions about how editors at Nature, one of the most prestigious journals in the scientific world, vet submissions and decide which are worthy of publication. Nature had already published and retracted a previous paper from Dr. Dias's group describing a different purported superconductor.
Superconductors are materials that can conduct electricity without any electrical resistance, and one that works in everyday conditions could find wide use in the transmission of electricity and for powerful magnets used in MRI machines and future fusion reactors. Superconductors discovered to date require ultracold temperatures.
In the Nature paper, Dr. Dias and his co-authors described how lutetium hydride -- a material made of lutetium, a silvery-white metal, and hydrogen -- gained new electronic properties when a tiny bit of nitrogen was added. When squeezed to a pressure of 145,000 pounds per square inch, the material not only changed color, from blue to red (leading Dr. Dias to give it the nickname of redmatter), but also turned into a superconductor, able to effortlessly carry electricity at temperatures as warm as 70 degrees Fahrenheit, the scientists said in the Nature paper.
Skeptics almost immediately questioned the findings, which led Nature to re-examine the research.
The co-authors said Dr. Dias kept most of them out of the loop of the post-publication review for several months.
In their letter to Tobias Rödel, a senior editor at Nature, dated Sept. 8, the co-authors described what they regarded as significant flaws in the research and said that they believed that "Dr. Dias has not acted in good faith in regard to the preparation and submission of the manuscript."
The Wall Street Journal reported on the letter on Tuesday.
The writers of the letter included five recent graduate students who worked in Dr. Dias's lab. They said that they raised concerns during the preparation of the scientific paper. "Those concerns included clearly misleading and/or inaccurate representations in the manuscript," they wrote.
They said that Dr. Dias did make some changes, but that "our concerns largely were dismissed by Dr. Dias, and some of us were instructed by Dr. Dias not to probe further into the issues raised and/or not to worry about such concerns."
The letter said that the graduate students felt constrained in what they could say at the time because they relied on Dr. Dias for academic and financial support.
Those signing the letter seeking a retraction included Ashkan Salamat, a professor of physics at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and a co-founder of Unearthly Materials, serving as president and chief executive. That was a change from May, when Dr. Salamat and Dr. Dias defended the paper in a rebuttal of concerns raised by other scientists.
Dr. Salamat did not respond to requests for comment. A spokesman for Dr. Dias said Dr. Salamat was no longer an employee of Unearthly Materials, but remained a shareholder.
The only authors of the March paper who did not sign the letter were Dr. Dias, a graduate student who is currently a member of his research group and a former undergraduate student who, according to his LinkedIn profile, now works at Unearthly Materials.
Before the letter was sent, Dr. Dias urged the authors to reconsider. "I am obligated to defend myself and notify you of my request that you cease and desist from signing and/or sending the proposed letter," he wrote in a letter shared on social media by the science journalist Dan Garisto. Dr. Dias's spokesman confirmed the contents of the letter.
The retraction request was nonetheless sent to Nature. The Wall Street Journal reported that Dr. Rödel replied in an email, "We are in absolute agreement with your request that the paper be retracted."
Karl Ziemelis, the chief physical sciences editor at Nature, said in a statement: "We are currently carefully investigating concerns related to the reliability of the data in this paper. We can also confirm that we are in correspondence with the authors regarding all concerns."
He added, "We expect to take action in the near future."
A retraction of the lutetium hydride paper would be the third retraction in the past year for Dr. Dias.
In 2020, Dr. Dias and his collaborators described in a paper, also published in Nature, a different material that was superconducting at room temperatures, but only at crushing pressures similar to those found near the center of the Earth.
After some scientists questioned the data in the 2020 paper, Nature conducted a review and then retracted the paper in September 2022 over the objections of Dr. Dias and all of the other authors.
In August, the journal Physical Review Letters retracted another of Dr. Dias's papers, one published in 2021 that described the electronic transformations of manganese sulfide under changing pressure. Critics again pointed to data that looked fishy, and after outside reviewers took a closer look, the editors of the journal agreed.
"The findings back up the allegations of data fabrication/falsification convincingly," the editors wrote in an email to the authors of the paper in July. Nine of the 10 authors of the manganese sulfide paper agreed to the retraction. Dr. Dias was the only holdout, insisting that the work contained no manipulation or fabrication.
A similar sequence of events is playing out again with the lutetium hydride paper. Brad J. Ramshaw, a professor of physics at Cornell University, was involved in the review that led to the retraction of the 2020 Nature paper.
After the lutetium hydride paper was published, Dr. Ramshaw noticed oddities in the electrical resistance measurements.
He reached out to James J. Hamlin, a professor of physics at the University of Florida, who had previously posted an analysis of the 2020 superconductivity paper. In early May, Dr. Hamlin and Dr. Ramshaw wrote up their concerns about the lutetium hydride data and sent them to Nature.
Without revealing the identities of Dr. Hamlin and Dr. Ramshaw, the concerns were sent to Dr. Dias, and at the end of May, Dr. Dias and Dr. Salamat sent back their rebuttal. On June 26, Dr. Hamlin and Dr. Ramshaw responded to the rebuttal, detailing how the procedure described in Dr. Dias's paper to subtract out a background signal in the resistance measurements could not have produced the graphs shown in the paper.
"I don't know of anyone in the field of superconductivity who would do what they did to the data," Dr. Ramshaw said in an interview.
Nature recruited four referees to weigh the contentions. They largely sided with Dr. Hamlin and Dr. Ramshaw. One referee wrote that Dr. Dias and Dr. Salamat "did not provide satisfactory response to several issues" and wondered why the authors "are not willing or able to provide clear and timely responses."
In the Sept. 8 letter, the co-authors said most of them did not know of the concerns until July 6, after Dr. Dias and Dr. Salamat had already responded.
The letter from the co-authors described problems with the data or the analysis for several of the figures in the paper. The letter also disclosed that almost all of the lutetium hydride samples were bought commercially -- some happened to contain some nitrogen impurities -- and were not made in Dr. Dias's laboratory using the recipe described in the Nature paper.
In April 2022, the graduate students approached Dr. Dias to express their concerns, and he responded that they could remove their names as authors or they could allow the paper to proceed.
"At the time, neither choice seemed tenable given that Dr. Dias was in control of our personal, academic and financial circumstances, as our mentor and supervisor," the letter writers said.
Dr. Dias's spokesman said Dr. Dias never intimidated his students. "All discussions were open and available to all co-authors," the spokesman said. "The co-authors made collective decisions about the publication."
Photograph Ranga P. Dias and 10 co-authors wrote in Nature that they had discovered a room-temperature semiconductor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAUREN PETRACCA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Physics; Electricity; Graduate students

Company / organization: Name: University of Rochester; NAICS: 611310; Name: Wall Street Journal; NAICS: 513110, 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/29/science/superconductor-retraction-ranga-dias-roch ester.html

Title: They Helped Write a Research Paper. Most of Them Want It to Be Retracted.:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 1, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2870653659

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-helped-write-research-paper-most-them-want/docview/2870653659/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 1, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Have Some Sympathy: [Op-Ed]

Author: Paul, Pamela

Publication info: Paul, Pamela. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/have-some-sympathy/docview/2869848392/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I'm beginning to feel sorry for sympathy. It was once such an honorable impulse. Humble, sincere, caring. Sympathy was meant for people who suffered or had less. In its most modest form, a sympathy card sent to people in grief.
But sympathy has gotten a bad rap. Now considered the noblesse oblige of emotions, it's disdained as a facile "poor you" of a sentiment, the equivalent of pity. Sympathy, in short, is to be avoided -- something you are warned not to give and would be loath to receive.
Instead, we are to upgrade to its superior, empathy. Schools and parenting guides instruct children in how to cultivate empathy, as do workplace culture and wellness programs. You could fill entire bookshelves with guides to finding, embracing and sharing empathy. Few books or lesson plans extol sympathy's virtues.
"Sympathy focuses on offering support from a distance," a therapist explains on LinkedIn, whereas empathy "goes beyond sympathy by actively immersing oneself in another person's emotions and attempting to comprehend their point of view."
And from Proceedings, a publication of the U.S. Naval Institute: "Sympathy has to do with sharing emotions but is still focused on the individual who is sympathizing, rather than truly seeking to understand another's perspective." Spare us your sympathy, in other words.
But what did sympathy do to deserve this treatment? And what makes empathy so superior?
Etymologically speaking, sympathy was here first. In use since the 16th century, when the Greek "syn-" ("with") combined with pathos (experience, misfortune, emotion, condition) to mean "having common feelings," sympathy preceded empathy by a good four centuries. Empathy (the "em" means "into") barged in from the German in the 20th century and gained popularity through its usage in fields like philosophy, aesthetics and psychology. According to my benighted 1989 edition of Webster's Unabridged, empathy was the more self-centered emotion, "the intellectual identification with or vicarious experiencing of the feelings, thoughts or attitudes of another."
But in more updated lexicons, it's as if the two words had reversed. Sympathy now implies a hierarchy whereas empathy is the more egalitarian sentiment. Empathy, per Dictionary.com, is "the psychological identification with or vicarious experiencing of the emotions, thoughts or attitudes of another" while sympathy stands at a haughty, "you poor dear" remove: "the act or state of feeling sorrow or compassion for another."
No wonder, one educator said to me that he was told in a recent diversity, equity and inclusion training program that "sympathy counts for nothing." Sympathy, the session's leader explained to school staff members, was seeing someone in a hole and saying, "Too bad you're in a hole," whereas empathy meant getting in the hole, too.
Perhaps you have heard about this hole. Brené Brown, the best-selling author, may be the one who popularized the hole metaphor, which makes a moral distinction between sympathy and empathy. "Empathy is a choice and it's a vulnerable choice because in order to connect with you, I have to connect with something in myself that knows that feeling," she says in a YouTube video.
According to this vision, empathy is about sharing someone else's perspective, not offering your own.
Still, it's hard to square the new emphasis on empathy -- you must feel what others feel -- with another element of the current discourse. According to what's known as "standpoint theory," your view necessarily depends on your own experience: You can't possibly know what others feel.
In his new book, "The Identity Trap," Yascha Mounk, a professor of international affairs at Johns Hopkins, defends a modest version of this theory, writing, "It really is easy for the comparatively privileged to remain blind to the challenges faced by those who are less fortunate." But in its more extreme interpretations, Mounk cautions, it "wrongly claims that people from different groups are incapable of empathizing with each other's experiences of injustice -- and that it would be better for them to stop trying."
In short, no matter how much an empath you may be, unless you have actually been in someone's place, with all its experiences and limitations, you cannot understand where that person is coming from. The object of your empathy may find it presumptuous of you to think that you "get it."
"Empathy is asking too much," Paul Bloom, a professor of psychology at the University of Toronto and the author of "Against Empathy," told me. In an article in The Boston Review, Bloom asks us to imagine what empathy demands should a friend's child drown. "A highly empathetic response would be to feel what your friend feels, to experience, as much as you can, the terrible sorrow and pain," he writes. "In contrast, compassion involves concern and love for your friend, and the desire and motivation to help, but it need not involve mirroring your friend's anguish."
Bloom argues for a more rational, modulated, compassionate response. Something that sounds a little more like our old friend sympathy.
So why not on occasion hold out a hand to sympathy instead? Return to the idea that charitable feeling from afar isn't inherently suspect and that in some situations, the best you can do is "merely" sympathize. That when someone blubbers uncontrollably next to you, you may not need to blubber, too, and the person may not want you to anyway. You could instead say, "I'm truly sorry" or "That's so unfair."
It's perfectly fine and perhaps better than fine to admit, "I cannot possibly know what it's like to have a miscarriage/fight in a war/get cancer." Why not say, as Leslie Jamison suggests in her book "The Empathy Exams," "I couldn't even imagine!"
No need to be sorry about offering your sympathies.
Source images by Richard Drury and Sui Zhou/Getty Images.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD DRURY AND SUI ZHOU/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A27.

Subject: Empathy; Sympathy; Emotions

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/28/opinion/sympathy-empathy.html

Title: Have Some Sympathy:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.27

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 29, 2023

column: Pamela Paul

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2869848392

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/have-some-sympathy/docview/2869848392/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Scratch: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Rothman, Julia; Feinberg, Shaina

Publication info: Rothman, Julia; Feinberg, Shaina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/scratch/docview/2867679381/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: You've Got (Scam) Mail
A few months ago, I received an email that, at first glance, looked like dozens of others that arrived in my inbox this year. I'm a professional illustrator, and this person was writing with what appeared to be a job offer.
Some things felt slightly off, but I wrote back.
The response was surprising: The person knew some things about hiring an illustrator, using industry terminology and making other requests typical of art directors.
We exchanged several more emails. I asked some questions and negotiated a higher rate. At this point, I was almost certain it was a scam.
And then the most glaring red flag: The person wanted to pay me immediately. As a freelancer, I almost always collect payment once a project is completed. Sometimes it takes months.
Out of curiosity, I decided to play along and agreed to take the job.
Scams have been around forever, but in 2022, consumers reported losing almost $ 8.8 billion to fraud, a 30 percent jump from the year before, according to data released by the Federal Trade Commission.
The actual number is probably much higher. John Breyault, a fraud expert at the National Consumers League, said that fraud tended to be underreported.
The pandemic also created a perfect storm for scams.
My experience made me think that other people were being scammed too, but just didn't talk about it.
So I decided to find out firsthand: I put out a call on Instagram and was almost instantly flooded with peoples' stories of being swindled through LinkedIn when applying for a job, on eBay when buying things, on Craigslist when looking for an apartment. Often, the targets were in vulnerable positions: desperate for work or housing, or experiencing momentous life changes.
Talking to others about their experiences sent me down an internet rabbit hole about scammers, and I discovered an entire subculture devoted to baiting them.
I began obsessively watching YouTube videos of people trying to "scam the scammers," like the account of a software engineer from Northern Ireland who uses the pseudonym Jim Browning to protect his privacy. On his channel, which has over four million subscribers, he creates content to educate people about common tactics of scammers and how to catch them in the act.
"I go to extremes," he said about the tactics he uses to turn the tables on con artists. "If they're using computers, do they have a webcam or CCTV? Can I see the guy that's trying to scam me? I've changed the robocall messages that they've sent out. I've made videos where I've sent harmless devices into scam call centers. I teamed up with Mark Rober -- an ex-NASA engineer -- and we managed to send things that released cockroaches and mice. That was an attempt to poke a bit of fun at the scammers."
The mechanics of scamming are as old as time, but technology has made it more sophisticated. "There will always be scammers, there always have been," the software engineer from Northern Ireland said. "The only thing that's changed is the technology that they use."
Mr. Breyault, the fraud expert, agreed.
He also said that generative A.I. could be used by scammers to make their ruses more sophisticated.
Eventually I let my scammer know that I knew what was really going on. What I got back was a confession:
Was this person really in dire straits? I'll never know. But at that point the only thing to do was walk away.
Produced by Rebecca Lieberman.
Produced by Rebecca Lieberman.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU4, BU5.

Subject: Video recordings; Illustrators

Location: Northern Ireland; United Kingdom--UK

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/business/email-scam-fraud.html

Title: Scratch:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 24, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2867679381

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/scratch/docview/2867679381/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Google Bard Is Still Erratic After a Boost: [Correction]

Author: Roose, Kevin

Publication info: Roose, Kevin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/google-bard-is-still-erratic-after-boost/docview/2866624841/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The chatbot now pulls information from a user's Gmail, Google Docs and Google Drive accounts. The feature leaves a lot to be desired.
This week, Bard -- Google's competitor to ChatGPT -- got an upgrade.
One interesting new feature, called Bard Extensions, allows the artificial intelligence chatbot to connect to a user's Gmail, Google Docs and Google Drive accounts.
(Google also gave Bard the ability to search YouTube, Google Maps and a few other Google services, and it introduced a tool that would let users fact-check Bard's responses. But I'm going to focus on the Gmail, Docs and Drive integrations, because the ability to ask an A.I. chatbot questions about your own data is the killer feature here.)
Bard Extensions is designed to address one of the most annoying problems with today's A.I. chatbots, which is that while they're great for writing poems or drafting business memos, they mostly exist in a vacuum. Chatbots can't see your calendar, peer into your email inbox or rifle through your online shopping history -- the kinds of information an A.I. assistant would need in order to give you the best possible help with your daily tasks.
Google is well positioned to close that gap. It already has billions of people's email inboxes, search histories, years' worth of their photos and videos, and detailed information about their online activity. Many people -- including me -- have most of their digital lives on Google's apps and could benefit from A.I. tools that allow them to use that data more easily.
I put the upgraded Bard through its paces on Tuesday, hoping to discover a powerful A.I. assistant with new and improved abilities.
What I found was a bit of a mess. In my testing, Bard succeeded at some simpler tasks, such as summarizing an email. But it also told me about emails that weren't in my inbox, gave me bad travel advice and fell flat on harder analytical tasks.
Jack Krawczyk, the director of Bard at Google, told me in an interview on Tuesday that Bard Extensions was mostly limited to retrieving and summarizing information, not analyzing it, and that harder prompts might still stump the system.
"Trial and error is still definitely required at this point," he said.
Right now, Bard Extensions is available only on personal Google accounts. Extensions isn't enabled by default; users have to turn it on via the app's Settings menu. And the feature works only in English for the time being.
Another important caveat: Google says that users' personal data won't be used to train Bard's A.I. model, or shown to the employees reviewing Bard's responses. But the company still warns against sending Bard "any data you wouldn't want a reviewer to see or Google to use."
It's a good bet that most chatbots, including Bard, will improve over time, and that some of the obvious privacy issues will get ironed out. Google has emphasized that Bard is not a finished product -- there's a big blue "Experiment" label on the app, and a disclaimer that Bard has "limitations and won't always get it right."
Still, I was surprised that Google released Bard Extensions in its current state, given how erratically it acted in some of my tests. And it suggests that the dream of an all-knowing A.I. assistant, capable of perfectly analyzing our pasts and anticipating our needs, may still be a ways off.
Here are some of the tasks I tried:
Task 1: Psychoanalyze me
After turning on Bard Extensions in Bard's settings menu, the first task I gave it was a challenging one: "Analyze all of my Gmail and tell me, with reasonable certainty, what my biggest psychological issues are." (What can I say? I like talking to chatbots about psychology.)
Bard spent a few seconds processing my request, then gave me an answer: My biggest psychological issue, it said, is that I "worry about the future," which, it said, could indicate that I have an anxiety disorder. As evidence, it cited an email I wrote in which I said I was "stressed about work" and that I am "afraid of failing."
I was skeptical, because I didn't remember writing anything like that. I asked Bard: When did I say I was afraid of failing?
"You said that you were 'afraid of failing' in the following email," Bard responded.
Subject: Book Review: Elon Musk
I'm reading a book about Elon Musk. It's fascinating, but it also makes me a little nervous. Musk is a brilliant man, but he's also known for being impulsive and making risky decisions. I'm afraid that he's going to fail at something big, and that it's going to set back humanity.
But I never sent an email like that. Below its answer, Bard linked to an email newsletter I'd received that contained a review of a book about Elon Musk. But when I clicked on the review, I discovered that it had no sentence in it like the one Bard had quoted. Bard had made up both the quote itself, and the fact that I'd written it.
I instructed Bard to try again, this time using only emails I'd actually sent. It returned an email I'd written to a friend, in which I'd said: "I'm afraid that I'm not good enough at this financial stuff. I'm not sure if I'm cut out to be a successful investor."
I remembered writing an email to that friend about investing. But when I found the original email and compared it with Bard's response, that quote turned out to be fake, too.
I knew I'd started off with a hard assignment. Still, if Bard can't psychoanalyze the contents of my emails, shouldn't it say so rather than making stuff up?
Mr. Krawczyk reiterated that it was still an experimental product.
"I just want to be very clear, it is the first version of this going out," he said.
Task 2: Be my travel agent
Bard is now connected to Google's suite of travel products, including Google Hotels and Google Flights. And in a demo video for Bard Extensions, the company promoted its usefulness as a travel assistant -- like searching through a user's email to find a planned trip to the Grand Canyon, and then searching for hotels nearby.
When I tried the same approach, the results were mixed.
I asked Bard to search my email inbox for information about a coming work trip to Europe, and look for train tickets that would get me from the airport to a business meeting in a nearby city on time.
Bard correctly retrieved the dates of my flight, but it got the departing airport wrong. Then, it showed me a list of other flights leaving from that airport on the same day.
Bard then recommended a train that would get me from the airport to my meeting on time. But when I checked the train company's official timetables, I found no such train existed.
Mr. Krawczyk said I very likely ran into a limitation with Google's travel-booking apps, which include data about flights and hotels but not European rail schedules, and that I would have had better luck if I'd asked for help booking a hotel at my destination.
"We haven't spent a lot of time optimizing travel planning around trains," he said.
Task 3: Wrangle my email
I am notoriously bad at email, and I hoped that with access to my personal Gmail account, Bard could help me declutter and organize my inbox.
Bard worked well on some simple tasks. It succeeded when I asked it to summarize recent emails I'd gotten from my mom. (Sorry, Mom! I read them, I promise!) It also responded well to prompts about emails on single subjects, such as "summarize recent emails I've gotten about A.I."
But when I asked it to perform more complicated tasks, it wobbled.
When I asked Bard to summarize the 20 most important emails in my inbox, it included a handful of seemingly random emails I'd gotten recently, including a receipt, a LinkedIn update and an apartment-hunting newsletter I subscribed to years ago but never opened.
When I instructed Bard to "pick five emails from the Primary tab of my Gmail, draft responses to those emails in my voice and show me the drafts," it instead pulled from my Promotions tab and drafted a very nice note to the Nespresso coffee company, thanking it for the offer of a 25 percent discount on a new espresso machine.
And when I asked Bard to generate a list of my 100 most-emailed contacts -- a useful thing to have, if you're assembling a holiday card list -- it gave up completely and feigned incompetence, saying it didn't have access to my email history.
Mr. Krawczyk said initial hiccups like these were expected. But he also reiterated that Bard would get better over time, and he predicted that A.I. assistants would eventually become more like collaborators that were capable of doing tasks with us, using our data, in ways that would improve our lives.
"We know it's not perfect, but it's super inspiring," he said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Electronic mail systems; Travel; Chatbots; Airports; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Airports Hotels & motels

People: Musk, Elon

Title: Google Bard Is Still Erratic After a Boost:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 21, 2023

column: The Shift

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866624841

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/google-bard-is-still-erratic-after-boost/docview/2866624841/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Global Espionage Grows Between U.S. and China: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Barnes, Julian E; Wong, Edward

Publication info: Barnes, Julian E; Wong, Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/global-espionage-grows-between-u-s-china/docview/2865442140/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As China's spy balloon drifted across the continental United States in February, American intelligence agencies learned that President Xi Jinping of China had become enraged with senior Chinese military generals.
The spy agencies had been trying to understand what Mr. Xi knew and what actions he would take as the balloon, originally aimed at U.S. military bases in Guam and Hawaii, was blown off course.
Mr. Xi was not opposed to risky spying operations against the United States, but American intelligence agencies concluded that the People's Liberation Army had kept Mr. Xi in the dark until the balloon was over the United States.
American officials would not discuss how spy agencies gleaned this information. But in details reported here for the first time, they discovered that when Mr. Xi learned of the balloon's trajectory and realized it was derailing planned talks with Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken, he berated senior generals for failing to tell him that the balloon had gone astray, according to American officials briefed on the intelligence.
The episode threw a spotlight on the expanding and highly secretive spy-versus-spy contest between the United States and China. The balloon crisis, a small part of a much larger Chinese espionage effort, reflects a brazen new aggressiveness by Beijing in gathering intelligence on the United States as well as Washington's growing capabilities to collect its own information on China.
For Washington, the espionage efforts are a critical part of President Biden's strategy to constrain the military and technological rise of China, in line with his thinking that the country poses the greatest long-term challenge to American power.
For Beijing, the new tolerance for bold action among Chinese spy agencies is driven by Mr. Xi, who has led his military to engage in aggressive moves along the nation's borders and pushed his foreign intelligence agency to become more active in farther-flung locales.
The main efforts on both sides are aimed at answering the two most difficult questions: What are the intentions of leaders in the rival nation, and what military and technological capabilities do they command?
American officials, most of whom spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss espionage, have stressed in interviews throughout the year the magnitude of the challenge. The C.I.A. is focusing on Mr. Xi himself, and in particular his intentions regarding Taiwan. The F.B.I.'s counterintelligence task forces across the nation have intensified their hunt for Chinese efforts to recruit spies inside the United States. U.S. agents have identified a dozen penetrations by Chinese citizens of military bases on American soil in the last 12 months.
Both countries are racing to develop their artificial intelligence technology, which they believe is critical to maintaining a military and economic edge and will give their spy agencies new capabilities.
Taken together, U.S. officials say, China's efforts reach across every facet of national security, diplomacy and advanced commercial technology in the United States and partner nations.
The C.I.A. and the Pentagon's Defense Intelligence Agency have set up new centers focused on spying on China. U.S. officials have honed their capabilities to intercept electronic communications, including using spy planes off China's coast.
The spy conflict with China is even more expansive than the one that played out between the Americans and the Soviets during the Cold War, said Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director. China's large population and economy enable it to build intelligence services that are bigger than those of the United States.
"The fact is that compared to the P.R.C., we're vastly outnumbered on the ground, but it's on us to defend the American people here at home," Mr. Wray said in an interview, using the initials for the People's Republic of China. "I view this as the challenge of our generation."
China sees it differently. Wang Wenbin, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, has said that "it is the U.S. that is the No. 1 surveillance country and has the largest spy network in the world."
'Going After Everything'
Espionage can halt a slide into war or smooth the path of delicate negotiations, but it can also speed nations toward armed conflict or cause diplomatic rifts.
In late February, weeks after he canceled an important trip to Beijing over the balloon episode, Mr. Blinken confronted China's top diplomat with a U.S. intelligence assessment that Beijing was considering giving weapons to Russia. That disclosure raised tensions, but also might be keeping China from sending the arms, U.S. officials say. And when Mr. Blinken finally went to Beijing in June, he raised the issue of Chinese intelligence activities in Cuba.
China's vastly improved satellite reconnaissance and its cyberintrusions are its most important means of collecting intelligence, U.S. officials say. The fleet of spy balloons, though far less sophisticated, has allowed China to exploit the unregulated zone of "near space." And the U.S. government is warning allies that China's electronic surveillance capabilities could expand if the world's nations use technology from Chinese communications companies.
Artificial intelligence is another battleground. The U.S. government sees its lead in A.I. as a way to help offset China's strength in numbers. Chinese officials hope the technology will help them counter American military power, including by pinpointing U.S. submarines and establishing domination of space, U.S. officials say.
American officials are also more concerned than ever at Chinese agencies' efforts to gather intelligence through personal contacts. They say China's main intelligence agency, the Ministry of State Security, aims to place agents or recruit assets across the U.S. government, as well as in technology companies and the defense industry.
Chinese agents use social media sites -- LinkedIn in particular -- to lure potential recruits. Any time an American takes a publicly disclosed intelligence job, they can expect a barrage of outreach from Chinese citizens on social media, according to current and former officials.
Responding to that threat, federal agencies have quietly opened or expanded their in-house spy catching operations. And Mr. Wray said the F.B.I. has thousands of open Chinese intelligence investigations, and every one of its 56 field offices has active cases. All of those field offices now have counterintelligence and cyber task forces largely focused on the threat from Chinese intelligence.
Those investigations involve attempts by Chinese spies to recruit informants, steal information, hack into systems and monitor and harass Chinese dissidents in the United States, including using so-called police outposts.
"They're going after everything," Mr. Wray said. "What makes the P.R.C. intelligence apparatus so pernicious is the way it uses every means at its disposal against us all at once, blending cyber, human intelligence, corporate transactions and investments to achieve its strategic goals."
But critics say some of the U.S. government's counterintelligence efforts are racially biased and paranoid, amounting to a new Red Scare -- a charge at least partly supported by the cases the Justice Department has had to drop and by its shutdown of the Trump-era China Initiative program.
China has undertaken its own expansive counterintelligence crusade, one that echoes Mao-era political campaigns. On July 1, China enacted a sweeping expansion of a counterespionage law. And in August, the Ministry of State Security announced that "all members of society" should help fight foreign spying, and offered rewards for anyone providing information.
The rival governments have also established new listening posts and secret intelligence-sharing agreements with other governments. American and Chinese agents have intensified their operations against each other in pivotal cities, from Brussels to Abu Dhabi to Singapore, with each side looking to influence foreign officials and recruit well-placed assets.
The Art of Mind-Reading
For American spy agencies, Mr. Xi's decisions and intentions are arguably the most valuable intelligence they seek, but he is also the most elusive of targets.
U.S. agencies are now probing exactly why China's defense minister, Gen. Li Shangfu, appears to have been placed under investigation for corruption, and why Mr. Xi ousted Qin Gang, his foreign minister. American diplomacy and policy depend on knowing the motivations behind these moves.
A decade ago, the United States' network of informants in China was eliminated by Chinese counterintelligence officials after the informants' identities were uncovered. Since then, the C.I.A. has faced a major challenge to rebuild its network. That is partly because China's expanding webs of electronic surveillance have made it difficult for American case officers to move freely in China to meet contacts.
China even has artificial intelligence software that can recognize faces and detect the gait of an American spy, meaning traditional disguises are not enough to avoid detection, according to a former intelligence official. American operatives now must spend days rather than hours taking routes to spot any tailing Chinese agents before meeting a source or exchanging messages, former intelligence officials say.
And Mr. Xi, like other authoritarian leaders, limits his use of phones or electronic communications, for the very purpose of making it difficult for foreign intelligence agencies to intercept his orders.
But officials in the vast bureaucracy under Mr. Xi do use electronic devices, giving U.S. agencies a chance to intercept information -- what spies call signals intelligence -- to give them some insight into the internal discussions of their Chinese counterparts.
In the balloon incident, the C.I.A. began tracking the balloon in mid-January, when the Chinese army launched it from Hainan Island, officials said.
U.S. officials also determined that commanders on the Central Military Commission that Mr. Xi chairs were unaware of this particular flight until it was tipping into crisis, and they vented their frustration at the generals overseeing the surveillance program.
Since that crisis, China has paused the operations of its fleet of balloons, but American officials said they believe Beijing will likely restart the program later.
Under William J. Burns, the C.I.A. director since 2021, the agency has hired more China experts, increased spending on China-related efforts and created a new mission center on China. And while American officials refuse to discuss details of the agency's network of informants, Mr. Burns said publicly in July that it had made progress on rebuilding a "strong human intelligence capability."
While it is unclear how robust the new network is, some U.S. officials think Mr. Xi's extremely authoritarian governance style gives intelligence agencies an opening to recruit disaffected Chinese citizens, including from among the political and business elite who had benefited in previous decades from less party control and a less ideological leadership.
Some prominent Chinese figures, including "princelings" of Communist Party elite families, say in private conversations that they disagree with the turn China has taken.
China has also poured resources into determining the thinking of top American officials. A Justice Department indictment unsealed in July suggests Chinese businesspeople tied to the government were trying to recruit James Woolsey, a former C.I.A. director who was in the running to be a Trump administration national security cabinet official right after the 2016 election.
More recently, a sophisticated, highly targeted penetration of Microsoft's cloud computing platform gave China access to the emails of senior State Department diplomats, including the American ambassador in Beijing and Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo.
American officials traveling to China take elaborate countermeasures to avoid having government secrets pilfered. They are issued burner cellphones and laptops and told to leave their regular devices at home.
Dennis Wilder, a former U.S. intelligence analyst on China and a senior fellow at Georgetown University, said that discerning the intentions of American leaders is one of the very top priorities for Chinese intelligence agencies.
"They look for senior planning and intentions," he said. "What is the secretary of state really thinking? What is he really doing? What are the operations the C.I.A. is really running against you?"
Measuring Military Muscle
No issue in U.S.-China relations has loomed larger than Taiwan. It is the flashpoint likeliest to lead to war, analysts say. Mr. Xi has said China must take control of Taiwan, a de facto independent island, and has ordered his military to be capable of doing so by 2027. But so far, the United States and its allies do not appear to have concrete intelligence on whether Mr. Xi would be willing to order an invasion.
And China obsesses over the flip side of the question. Mr. Biden has declared four times that the U.S. military will defend Taiwan should China try to seize the island. But whether Mr. Biden really means that -- and whether American leaders plan to permanently keep Taiwan out of China's reach -- are believed to be focal points of some of China's intelligence efforts.
In the absence of real intelligence on intentions, American and Chinese officials are focused on gathering information on each other's military capabilities. The United States, for instance, has stepped up its aerial surveillance of Chinese military bases.
Meanwhile, Chinese intelligence agents have penetrated many parts of the Taiwanese government over the decades, former U.S. intelligence officials say. Chinese agents are now trying to learn more about the Biden administration's efforts to outfit Taiwan with certain weapons systems and provide secret training for Taiwanese troops. Chinese agents also seek more details on the growing military cooperation between the United States and Asian allies.
"What is it all for?" asked Representative Mike Gallagher, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House's new China committee, referring to Beijing's espionage efforts. "My speculation, based on what we see around our military bases, based on their cyberhacks, is that it is all geared toward Taiwan."
Other U.S. officials also say China's desire to learn more about American armed readiness explains its attempts to surveil military bases around the United States. In the last 12 months, according to U.S. officials, they have tracked about a dozen attempts by Chinese citizens to sneak on to military bases to take photos or measure electromagnetic activity. Some of the recent efforts appear focused on bases that would play an important role in a Taiwan conflict, they say.
In August, the Justice Department charged two American sailors with providing military secrets to Chinese intelligence agents. The sailors pleaded not guilty.
But intelligence collection is not in itself a prelude to war. The espionage struggle actually could be a substitute for armed clashes, as it often was during the Cold War.
U.S. intelligence officials believe that China does not want to go to war now over Taiwan, Avril D. Haines, the director of national intelligence, told Congress in March.
"We assess that Beijing still believes it benefits most," she said, "by preventing a spiraling of tensions and by preserving stability in its relationship with the United States."
Photograph President Xi Jinping's spies are active in farther-flung locales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO LONGARI/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES) (A12); Some U.S. officials think President Xi Jinping's authoritarian governance style gives intelligence agencies an opening to recruit disaffected Chinese citizens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FLORENCE LO/REUTERS); Taiwanese military boats patrolling the Matsu Islands, just in front of China's Fujian province. Mr. Xi has said China must take control of Taiwan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YAN ZHAO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); William J. Burns, the C.I.A. director, has ordered an expansion of intelligence collection and analysis of China. The agency has hired more China experts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/GETTY IMAGES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12, A13.

Subject: Intelligence gathering; Military bases; Espionage; Defense industry; Intelligence services

Business indexing term: Subject: Defense industry

Location: China; Beijing China; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/17/us/politics/us-china-global-spy-operations.html

Title: Global Espionage Grows Between U.S. and China:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865442140

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/global-espionage-grows-between-u-s-china/docview/2865442140/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Pluses and Minuses To Plugging In Your New iPhone: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pluses-minuses-plugging-your-new-iphone/docview/2864772147/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The dream of carrying one power cable for all your devices is becoming a reality. But things aren't as simple as they sound.
The iPhone 15 (technically, the 17th iteration of the iconic Apple phone) has arrived with a big change that is sure to annoy many of us. Eventually, however, we'll breathe a sigh of relief.
Allow me to unpack that. To comply with recent European regulations, the iPhone 15, unveiled Tuesday, will abandon the Lightning connector that has been the method for charging iPhones for 11 years. In its place will be a different oval-shaped connector: USB-C.
For the average tech user, change isn't fun. This all means that when Apple customers buy their next iPhones, they will no longer be able to plug in all the Lightning accessories they have collected, such as charging cables, speaker docks and earbuds. They will have to replace those with new products that use USB-C connectors to plug into the new iPhones.
This transition feels like a bit of déjà vu. In 2012, Apple killed the relatively bulky 30-pin connector on iPhones to switch to Lightning, a slimmer and faster charging technology, which rendered many speakers and chargers obsolete.
What's different this time is that most of us already have a USB-C cable. Modern headphones, game consoles and many laptops, including Apple's MacBooks, long ago adopted USB-C as a standard charging port. The iPhone was one of the holdouts.
Why is this happening now? Last year, the European Union announced a mandate requiring all smartphone makers to adopt USB-C as a common charging connector by 2024. In theory, this will allow consumers to buy fewer power cables, which, regulators say, could cut down on environmental waste. Thierry Breton, a European commissioner involved in the legislation, said on LinkedIn this month: "A common charger is common sense."
So we are heading toward an era of standardization in which one type of charger works with most of our electronics, which would be ideal. Many of us are familiar with the scenario in which someone is carrying an iPhone cable but a family member or friend needs a different one (likely a USB-C) to replenish their non-Apple phone or computer. Those days, in theory, will be no more.
But as is always the case with any big technology shift, it's not as simple as it sounds. New dangers lie ahead -- including the ability to destroy your phone with the wrong USB-C wire, phone repair experts say. If you're going to carry only one cable, it's more important than ever to be judicious about what you buy.
"Charger damage is a real thing," said Jessa Jones, the owner of iPad Rehab, a mobile phone and tablet repair shop. "It's very common, and it's something you need to watch out for."
Here's what to know:
Not all USB-C cables are created equal.
The first step is to stop thinking about modern charging cables as dumb wires.
High-quality chargers are essentially electronics with tiny circuit boards inside them. On Apple's official Lightning cable, there are two chips: One authenticates that the cable is made by Apple, while the other acts as a fuse that isolates damage to the charger. In the event of a power fluctuation, for example, only the charger would be destroyed and not the phone itself, Ms. Jones said.
The problem with USB-C cables is that while they usually look the same, the cheaper, low-quality cords offer no such protection for your device. They may have the correct oval connector, but inside, they lack chips to protect your phone.
So if you need a USB-C cable, don't grab any cheap wire, like the $ 5 ones you'll see at a gas station kiosk. Invest in a durable cable from a reputable company. Brands like Anker, Belkin and Amazon Basics are well known for their high-quality power cables that cost roughly $ 9 to $ 30, according to John Bumstead, the owner of RDKL Inc., a repair shop that refurbishes MacBooks. Buy the cables from trusted retailers or directly from the brands themselves -- and avoid purchasing used wires on sites like eBay.
Be careful what you plug into.
Many USB-C cables lack chips to restrict the current powering your phone. So if you plug it into a source that charges at a higher voltage than your phone accepts, you could electrocute your phone, Ms. Jones said.
The lesson here is to be careful about what you plug your cord into. Those USB ports embedded into airplane back seats, hotel room walls or car consoles are a big no-no because it's unclear what their charging rates are. It's safest to plug your USB-C cable only into a high-quality charging brick that protects your phone. Wirecutter, our sister publication, recommends USB-C power bricks from Anker, RAVPower and Spigen that do a good job replenishing your phone quickly without damaging it.
There's always wireless.
For iPhone owners who aren't planning on upgrading right away but need new chargers, the most cost-effective alternative to buying another Lightning cable is to go wireless. The E.U. mandate applies only to wires that plug directly into devices -- not wireless charging devices that replenish your phone via magnetic induction, such as Apple's puck-shaped MagSafe, which magnetizes to the back of your phone, or wireless charging pads and stands from brands like Mophie, Anker and Belkin. So those are fine purchases for the foreseeable future.
Bottom Line
As long as you own a robust cable and a nice charging brick, you will probably be happy with this transition. The USB-C charging standard is faster at transferring data than Lightning, and there may even be some cool perks, like the ability to plug your phone directly into an external display to look at photos.
More important, when you're traveling or commuting, you will no longer have to carry a jungle of wires in your bag, and if you leave your cable at home, chances are you'll be near someone who is carrying the same one.
Photograph Apple unveiled the iPhone 15 Pro at its campus in Cupertino, Calif., on Tuesday. Some who buy the new device will no longer be able to plug in accessories like charging cables, speaker docks and earbuds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Quality standards; Cables; Smartphones; Portable computers

Business indexing term: Subject: Quality standards Smartphones

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/12/technology/personaltech/apple-iphone-lightning-usb-c.html

Title: The Pluses and Minuses To Plugging In Your New iPhone:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 15, 2023

column: Tech Fix

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2864772147

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pluses-minuses-plugging-your-new-iphone/docview/2864772147/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How to Navigate Apple’s Shift From Lightning to USB-C

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-navigate-apple-s-shift-lightning-usb-c/docview/2864690161/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — The iPhone 15 (technically, the 17th iteration of the iconic Apple phone) has arrived with a big change that is sure to annoy many of us. Eventually, however, we’ll breathe a sigh of relief.
Allow me to unpack that. To comply with recent European regulations, the iPhone 15, unveiled Tuesday, will abandon the Lightning connector that has been the method for charging iPhones for 11 years. In its place will be a different oval-shaped connector: USB-C.
For the average tech user, change isn’t fun. This all means that when Apple customers buy their next iPhones, they will no longer be able to plug in all the Lightning accessories they have collected, such as charging cables, speaker docks and earbuds. They will have to replace those with new products that use USB-C connectors to plug into the new iPhones.
This transition feels like a bit of déjà vu. In 2012, Apple killed the relatively bulky 30-pin connector on iPhones to switch to Lightning, a slimmer and faster charging technology, which rendered many speakers and chargers obsolete.
What’s different this time is that most of us already have a USB-C cable. Modern headphones, game consoles and many laptops, including Apple’s MacBooks, long ago adopted USB-C as a standard charging port. The iPhone was one of the holdouts.
Why is this happening now? Last year, the European Union announced a mandate requiring all smartphone makers to adopt USB-C as a common charging connector by 2024. In theory, this will allow consumers to buy fewer power cables, which, regulators say, could cut down on environmental waste. Thierry Breton, a European commissioner involved in the legislation, said on LinkedIn this month: “A common charger is common sense.”
So we are heading toward an era of standardization in which one type of charger works with most of our electronics, which would be ideal. Many of us are familiar with the scenario in which someone is carrying an iPhone cable but a family member or friend needs a different one (likely a USB-C) to replenish their non-Apple phone or computer. Those days, in theory, will be no more.
But as is always the case with any big technology shift, it’s not as simple as it sounds. New dangers lie ahead — including the ability to destroy your phone with the wrong USB-C wire, phone repair experts say. If you’re going to carry only one cable, it’s more important than ever to be judicious about what you buy.
“Charger damage is a real thing,” said Jessa Jones, the owner of iPad Rehab, a mobile phone and tablet repair shop. “It’s very common, and it’s something you need to watch out for.”
Here’s what to know:
Not all USB-C cables are created equal.
The first step is to stop thinking about modern charging cables as dumb wires.
High-quality chargers are essentially electronics with tiny circuit boards inside them. On Apple’s official Lightning cable, there are two chips: One authenticates that the cable is made by Apple, while the other acts as a fuse that isolates damage to the charger. In the event of a power fluctuation, for example, only the charger would be destroyed and not the phone itself, Jones said.
The problem with USB-C cables is that while they usually look the same, the cheaper, low-quality cords offer no such protection for your device. They may have the correct oval connector, but inside, they lack chips to protect your phone.
So if you need a USB-C cable, don’t grab any cheap wire, like the $5 ones you’ll see at a gas station kiosk. Invest in a durable cable from a reputable company. Brands such as Anker, Belkin and Amazon Basics are well known for their high-quality power cables that cost roughly $9 to $30, according to John Bumstead, the owner of RDKL Inc., a repair shop that refurbishes MacBooks. Buy the cables from trusted retailers or directly from the brands themselves — and avoid purchasing used wires on sites such as eBay.
Be careful what you plug into.
Many USB-C cables lack chips to restrict the current powering your phone. So if you plug it into a source that charges at a higher voltage than your phone accepts, you could electrocute your phone, Jones said.
The lesson here is to be careful about what you plug your cord into. Those USB ports embedded into airplane back seats, hotel room walls or car consoles are a big no-no because it’s unclear what their charging rates are. It’s safest to plug your USB-C cable only into a high-quality charging brick that protects your phone. Wirecutter, our sister publication, recommends USB-C power bricks from Anker, RAVPower and Spigen that do a good job replenishing your phone quickly without damaging it.
There’s always wireless.
For iPhone owners who aren’t planning on upgrading right away but need new chargers, the most cost-effective alternative to buying another Lightning cable is to go wireless. The EU mandate applies only to wires that plug directly into devices — not wireless charging devices that replenish your phone via magnetic induction, such as Apple’s puck-shaped MagSafe, which magnetizes to the back of your phone, or wireless charging pads and stands from brands such as Mophie, Anker and Belkin. So those are fine purchases for the foreseeable future.
Bottom Line
As long as you own a robust cable and a nice charging brick, you will probably be happy with this transition. The USB-C charging standard is faster at transferring data than Lightning, and there may even be some cool perks, like the ability to plug your phone directly into an external display to look at photos.
More important, when you’re traveling or commuting, you will no longer have to carry a jungle of wires in your bag, and if you leave your cable at home, chances are you’ll be near someone who is carrying the same one.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Quality standards; Cables; Smartphones; Portable computers

Business indexing term: Subject: Quality standards Smartphones

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; United States; Linkedin Corporation; European Union; Iphone; Shopping And Retail; AmazonCom Inc; Belkin International Inc; Chen, Brian X; Amazon Jungle; Fines (Penalties); Privacy; Wire And Cable; Smartphones; Speakers (Audio); Consumer Behavior; Ebay Inc; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Apple Inc; Europe; Computers And The Internet; Lightning; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Mophie Inc

Title: How to Navigate Apple’s Shift From Lightning to USB-C

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 14, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-14T21:32:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2864690161

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-navigate-apple-s-shift-lightning-usb-c/docview/2864690161/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Federal Contractor Charged With Being Spy for Ethiopia: [National Desk]

Author: Goldman, Adam; Thrush, Glenn

Publication info: Goldman, Adam; Thrush, Glenn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/federal-contractor-charged-with-being-spy/docview/2864054059/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The connection of the contractor to Ethiopia, a country that is a significant recipient of aid from the United States, is unusual.
A contractor who has worked for the State and Justice Departments has been arrested and charged with spying for Ethiopia, according to several U.S. officials with knowledge of the situation.
The man, Abraham T. Lemma, 50, of Silver Spring, Md., faces two counts under the Espionage Act and was taken into custody last month. Not much was known about the case, which remains sealed in Federal District Court in Washington and could be made public as early as this week.
Efforts to reach Mr. Lemma's lawyer and family were unsuccessful. The Justice Department declined to comment.
Mr. Lemma's LinkedIn profile describes him as a part-time systems analyst for the State Department who has worked at the department's Diplomatic Security Service since 2019.
Mr. Lemma's connection to Ethiopia, a country that is a significant recipient of aid from the United States, is unusual.
Many of the recent espionage cases the Justice Department has pursued involve China's multifaceted efforts to infiltrate American companies and government agencies, like by stealing trade secrets and economic intelligence, or by recruiting people in the United States to serve as spies or to intimidate dissidents. Last month, two members of the U.S. Navy were charged with spying for China, accused of filching military secrets and other sensitive information.
The United States and Ethiopia have a longstanding partnership, and it remains unclear what sensitive information Mr. Lemma, a graduate of the University of Baltimore, had obtained or how long he had been helping that country.
But it is not uncommon for friendly powers to seek information inside the United States to provide their leaders with up-to-the-minute political, economic or military information, according to current and former U.S. officials.
It also works the other way around. The trove of sensitive government documents that Jack Teixeira, a Massachusetts Air National Guardsman, is accused of posting to an online gaming platform illustrated the broad reach of U.S. spy agencies, including into the capitals of friendly countries such as Egypt, South Korea, Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates.
They included C.I.A. briefs describing private conversations at senior levels of government in those countries, some attributed to "signals intelligence," or electronic eavesdropping.
Even as the leak showed how far the United States' reach was, the diplomatic reaction to the disclosure was muted, in part because foreign governments have come to regard such activity as routine in the decade since Edward Snowden released internal government communications revealing that a sophisticated network of global surveillance was scooping up emails and phone calls from friends and foes alike.
Ethiopia, situated on the geopolitically critical Horn of Africa, is one of the poorest countries in the world, facing drought, famine, political unrest and bloody conflict with neighboring Eritrea.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019 for trying to restart peace negotiations with Eritrea. But in 2020, fighting broke out between Ethiopia's military and a paramilitary group in the country's northern Tigray region, killing tens of thousands.
Since 2020, the United States has given the country more than $ 3 billion in aid to assist in its recovery from civil war and drought, according to the State Department.
This year, Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken visited Ethiopia as part of an effort to bolster ties with the United States amid the rising influence of Russia and China.
Photograph A Maryland man who has worked for the Justice Department is facing two counts of spying under the Espionage Act. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH SILBIGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Espionage

Location: China; United States--US; Eritrea; Ethiopia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/11/us/politics/ethiopia-leak-classified.html

Title: Federal Contractor Charged With Being Spy for Ethiopia:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 13, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2864054059

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/federal-contractor-charged-with-being-spy/docview/2864054059/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Saudi Arabia Is Pouring Money Into Sports. Could It Be Setting Its Sights on Tennis Next?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren; Michael J. De La Merced; Mattu, Ravi

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren; Michael J. De La Merced; Mattu, Ravi. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/saudi-arabia-is-pouring-money-into-sports-could/docview/2863166465/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Despite the popularity of tennis, its business has struggled.
The U.S. Open has been as gripping as ever this year, with the 19-year-old breakout star Coco Gauff set to face off against Aryna Sabalenka in today's singles final and Novak Djokovic seeking a 24th Grand Slam win tomorrow. But as a business, tennis has been struggling for years -- and faces new pressure to find a sustainable model as Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund, known as P.I.F., has made major investments in sports, sloshing money around in golf, soccer and mixed martial arts.
Some deal makers wonder whether tennis, which has already confirmed initial talks with Saudi Arabia, will be the fund's next target.
Players are ready for a change. "Of all the important sports around the world, I think tennis is clearly the one with the greatest opportunity for financial growth and the most unrealized value," Maria Sharapova, the retired tennis star, told DealBook.
Despite the popularity of tennis, the sport brings in only 1.3 percent of earnings from global media sports rights. That's partly because tennis is made up of myriad entities -- including the Women's Tennis Association; the U.S. Tennis Association; and independent tournaments. The independently operated organizations make scheduling tournaments difficult and diminish bargaining power for sponsorship and media deals. Erratic scheduling and long matches don't help entice broadcasters.
Financial missteps are reflected in pay for players, most of whom earn little while having to pay for coaches, training sessions and travel expenses to play in the game.
That's why Ms. Sharapova thinks the sport should explore bringing in outside capital, whether it be a private equity firm or sovereign wealth fund. It's also why many believe tennis could be vulnerable to a rival sports league if P.I.F. were to repeat the playbook it used in golf, where its LIV golf tour eventually struck a deal to partner with the PGA Tour to help settle acrimonious litigation.
Could a merger solve the problem? The private equity firm CVC Capital Partners bought a stake in the women's professional tennis this year, in hopes of capitalizing on the sport's commercial promise. There has been speculation that CVC could merge the women's and men's tours. But such a deal is complex, requiring sign offs from multiple parties that don't all share the same views.
Other private equity investors are circling with similar aims, DealBook has heard. But it's not clear any investor or fund could compete with the deep pockets of P.I.F., which has so far shown little interest in returns.
Not everyone in tennis opposes Saudi money. Most standouts argue that accepting investment from P.I.F. could help the country reframe its tarnished reputation. But others say that tennis should be more concerned with its bottom line: The women's professional tennis tour's decision to suspend all tournaments in China after the disappearance of the tennis player Peng Shuai, for instance, dented the WTA's business -- and ultimately failed to pressure China into granting a meeting with Ms. Shuai.
Some players say that Saudi money could help with pay equity, a longstanding problem in the sport. Outside the four grand slam events last year, men earned about 70 percent more on average than women did during tournaments. Though the women's tour struck a deal for pay equity this year, the new structure won't be in place for another decade. If Saudi Arabia "could help getting us to equal prize money, though there are negatives, there's a lot of positives that can come out of it," Jessica Pegula, the third-ranked player, told Reuters in July.
But there is little consensus. As rumors swirled this week that the WTA would hold its finals in Saudi Arabia, the former tennis star Chris Evert pushed back. "I would be against it," Evert said, "but I don't have a vote."
Those who did have a vote apparently sided with Evert: The WTA announced on Thursday it will hold the event in Cancún, Mexico. -- Lauren Hirsch
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
Google settles antitrust charges over its app store. The tech giant said that it had reached a tentative deal with a group of states to resolve accusations that it had monopolized distribution of apps on its Android operating system. But the company still faces a big fight with the Justice Department over search, with the trial set to begin next week.
China fears taking a bite out of Apple. The tech company lost about $ 200 billion of market capitalization over two days as its shares dipped on reports of a potential iPhone crackdown in China. But the stock rebounded on Friday.
Fashion and fame continue to converge. François-Henri Pinault, the French billionaire and chief executive of the luxury goods company Kering, said on Thursday his family office had bought a majority stake in one of Hollywood's biggest talent agencies, Creative Artists Agency.
The I.R.S. turns to A.I. The agency announced that it had begun using artificial intelligence to investigate tax evasion at hedge funds, private equity groups, real estate investors and large law firms.
The business of gaming Spotify
This week, Universal Music Group -- home of artists including Taylor Swift and Drake -- struck a new licensing deal with the French streaming service Deezer. They promised it would be an "artist-centric model" that would benefit professional musicians.
In other words, less money would be paid to the kind of content that music label and streaming executives have increasingly criticized, including white-noise tracks and songs made by artificial intelligence. Lucian Grainge, chief executive of Universal Music Group, called it a "sea of noise" -- but it was still by some measures a nearly billion-dollar industry.
The amount of content on music streaming platforms is exploding. Last year, 34.1 million new audio and music video tracks were uploaded, according to the research firm Luminate. That's more than double what was uploaded in 2018. (This year may be even higher: 20.2 million tracks were uploaded in the first six months of 2023.)
But just over 3 percent of the tracks uploaded this year came from major-label artists. That has left many in the music industry worrying about what they call spam. Spotify has sought to crack down on producers of such content on multiple fronts, including both audio tracks and, more recently, podcasts. But platforms have also sought to crack down on A.I.-produced content, amid allegations that bot activity is artificially boosting their listening numbers.
"These things are growing at a terrifying rate," Rob Jonas, the C.E.O. of Luminate, told DealBook.
How much money is at stake? Though big labels produce just a fraction of the content on these platforms, they collect most of streaming's cash: About 95 percent of Spotify's royalty checks last year went to roughly 200,000 professional or aspiring professional acts, analysts at Goldman Sachs calculated this summer. But the remaining 5 percent left for so-called long tail content still amounted to about $ 900 million.
Executives say that's still too much. "It should be obvious to everyone that the sound of rain or a washing machine is not as valuable as a song from your favorite artist streamed in HiFi," Jeronimo Folgueira, chief executive of Deezer, said this week.
Critics of the current system, in place for about a decade, say that it incentivizes the creation of spam, forces streaming platforms to manage increasingly unwieldy content caches and leaves less money to be paid to actual artists.
The Universal-Deezer deal is meant to change that. It will pay twice as much in royalties for tracks by professional artists, defined as those with a minimum of 1,000 streams a month from a minimum of 500 unique listeners. Those tracks would get a further boost if they were actively searched for by users.
The effect is likely to be limited for now -- Deezer had 9.4 million subscribers as of Dec. 31, compared with Spotify's 220 million -- though Universal has said it's in talks with other platforms.
The counterpoint: Mark Mulligan, an analyst at the research firm Midia, questioned whether worries about the "sea of noise" are overblown, noting that the streaming business had grown to nearly $ 18 billion last year.
To him, the push to devalue these tracks is a form of snobbery and gate-keeping by music labels, meant to make it harder for new forms of content to emerge. (It's also worth noting that streaming platforms are working on creating essentially their own royalty-free, long-tail content.)
Mr. Mulligan warned that if streaming companies make it harder to find, say, white-noise tracks, consumers could instead turn to alternative platforms like YouTube and TikTok. "If you want to find underground artists or weird sleep noises, you'll turn to other options to meet that need," he told DealBook.
An A.I. pioneer calls for a rethink
Mustafa Suleyman is one of the world's leading artificial intelligence entrepreneurs, and is a co-founder of not one but two start-ups at the cutting edge of the most transformative technology since the internet.
Mr. Suleyman is the chief executive of Inflection AI, a chatbot company he started last year with the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, which was reportedly valued at $ 4 billion in its funding round that closed in June, raising $ 1.3 billion. And Suleyman is also a co-founder of DeepMind, an A.I. pioneer that was acquired by Google in 2014.
This week, Mr. Suleyman, now a partner at the venture capital firm Greylock Partners, released "The Coming Wave: AI, Power and the 21st Century's Greatest Dilemma." He spoke with DealBook about the book, which calls for an urgent shift in how we think about and "contain" A.I. The conversation has been condensed and edited for clarity.
Why do you describe the book as a "love letter" to the nation-state?
We have invented a system of noncommercial checks and balances, which holds centralized power accountable in the public interest. That system has evolved over many years away from monarchy, dictatorship and authoritarianism toward free and open liberal democracy. It means that we can do sensible taxation and redistribution to prevent inequality. This is the best tool we have so we should stick with it and keep trying to defend it.
How have your peers responded to your ideas?
There are lots of different clusters in Silicon Valley. People like Satya Nadella, the C.E.O. of Microsoft, are very forward-thinking about these things and definitely lean into the responsibility that the companies have to do the right thing.
But there are definitely skeptics. Marc Andreessen, the venture capital investor, just thinks that there's not going to be much of a downside. It's all going to be fine and dandy. I'm as much of an accelerationist as Andreessen but I'm just more wide-eyed and comfortable talking about the potential harms, and I think that is a more intellectually honest position.
How do you see the state of relations between democratic governments and Silicon Valley?
Tech companies are meaningfully engaging, and governments are starting to get proactive. This hasn't always happened, so we are already going in the right direction. Truth is this is only just the beginning -- a lot more hard work is needed -- but the foundations are starting to come into view.
Thanks for reading! We'll see you Monday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Tennis; Music; Artists; Artificial intelligence; Noise; Streaming media; Women; Private equity; Professional golf

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Private equity

Location: United States--US; Saudi Arabia; China

Company / organization: Name: Universal Music Group; NAICS: 512250; Name: Spotify AB; NAICS: 516210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/09/business/dealbook/tennis-business-saudi-arabia.html

Title: Saudi Arabia Is Pouring Money Into Sports. Could It Be Setting Its Sights on Tennis Next?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 11, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2863166465

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/saudi-arabia-is-pouring-money-into-sports-could/docview/2863166465/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Present At the Dawn Of a New Light: [Correction]

Author: Kourlas, Gia

Publication info: Kourlas, Gia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/present-at-dawn-new-light/docview/2862896638/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: To make a company, George Balanchine first needed to make dancers. At 75, New York City Ballet pays tribute to its dancers, including a few who were there at the start.
There were moments of total exhaustion. A young dancer, having performed a difficult matinee and faced with an evening show, slipped into her dressing room. She placed something soft on the ground to cushion her body from the cement floor. She lay down. She listened.
As the afternoon light faded, streetlights switched on. She could hear buses, cars, footsteps, horns -- images and sounds that haven't faded from the memory of Barbara Walczak, one of just a few known living dancers who performed at New York City Ballet's opening night at City Center for Music and Drama in 1948.
Sitting at a table in her winding, treasure-filled Manhattan apartment, she took a breath. "And then my mind would return," she said, "and I would look ahead to the evening performance with such gratitude to be doing what I loved."
Walczak, 92, always wanted to dance. Transplanted into the ballet universe of the Russian-born choreographer George Balanchine, this young American from Astoria, Queens, found her joy, her bliss, her reason for living. Balanchine was reimagining ballet as an American art form, and she was a part of it.
Balanchine is now part of popular culture. But it's revealing that the dancers of that time, as unformed as they were, realized that his vision was worth fighting for; perhaps, they could see his future as well as their own. To dance was one thing, but as Walczak knew, to dance the ballets of Balanchine was something more -- a way, she said, "to feel the freedom of the music propelling through my body." It was a physical and spiritual awakening.
On Oct. 11, 1948, City Ballet made its debut as a company with three Balanchine ballets: "Concerto Barocco," "Orpheus" and "Symphony in C." Now, 75 years later, as part of its anniversary celebration, the company will recreate that program, again on Oct. 11. Before that, though, there will be another memorable night: The fall season's opener, on Sept. 19 -- a performance of Balanchine's "Jewels" (1967) -- will include a tribute to its dancers, 75 years' worth.
Wendy Whelan, the company's associate artistic director, has been in touch with many of them, in particular with those who were there at the beginning: Walczak, Ruth Lawrence Doering, known then as Ruth Gilbert (she declined to give her age), and Myrna Galle, 93. (Another founding member, Rita Karlin Brandt, 93, lives in New York City.).
"I just felt like that umbilical cord was reinvigorated," Whelan said, of finding former dancers on LinkedIn and on Facebook, or digging into Instagram to find names and connections.
When she talked to dancers on the phone, she could feel her face heat up. "I'm beaming with a smile, I'm like bubbling inside," she said. "And I'm very much invigorated by their energy and by their stories and their excitement."
A CHOREOGRAPHER IS NOTHING without dancers. When Balanchine arrived in New York in 1933, America had much to admire. Modern dance, notably companies led by women -- the great Martha Graham among them. Jazz. Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire. What it didn't have: a strong tradition of ballet and, with that, an arsenal of trained dancers. Balanchine had to make them, and make them to his requirements -- with clean technique, devoid of mannerism and artifice.
He wanted dancers who could move big and take up space; who could tilt and bend and fall off center, thrillingly, all the while paying attention to the in-between moments of notes and steps. It would not be just about the music, which meant everything to Balanchine, but showing bodies moving through it. Agility, musicality, timing -- dancers who aren't playing characters but showing their individual essence, their perfume, through classical dance. This is what Balanchine training creates, and what sets City Ballet apart from other companies to this day.
There were many bumps along the way, but the creation of such dancers and such an enterprise began in 1934, when the School of American Ballet, formed by Balanchine and the arts patron and writer Lincoln Kirstein, opened its doors.
Before Balanchine arrived in New York, so much had already happened to shape his life and view of ballet. He was just 9 when he was dropped off at the Imperial Ballet School in St. Petersburg -- virtually abandoned by his mother and feeling rightfully miserable until he found himself onstage as a cupid in "The Sleeping Beauty." Suddenly, ballet was more than ballet, it was a home -- the theater. Unfortunately, the Russian Revolution was right around the corner. When it came, his life was turned upside down. He was cold, he was hungry; he was in survival mode.
He started making dances as a teenager, and by 1924, his experiments in choreography were being noticed, and he made his way to Western Europe with a small touring group. He never returned to live in what was then the Soviet Union; instead, he joined Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes where he found his choreographic voice.
But Diaghilev died in 1929, and Balanchine became so ill with tuberculosis that he ended up in a sanitarium. In 1931, he was asked to serve as the ballet master of the new Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo, but he soon left and formed his own company, Les Ballets 1933.
While short-lived -- a blink of four weeks! -- Les Ballets was critical. Kirstein attended a performance in London, and Kirstein had a dream: to create an American ballet. He envisioned a company of dancers that instilled ballet with a modern American spirit. He needed an artistic leader, a choreographer not covered in cobwebs and old-fashioned story ballets -- a ballet master capable of creating sleek, classical American dancers. He needed Balanchine.
Plenty still had to happen before City Ballet was formed. There were precursors, groups led by Balanchine and Kirstein from 1934 to 1947; and Balanchine spent time in Hollywood and on Broadway, where he was able to work with Black dancers who would greatly influence his choreographic approach to classical ballet.
The 1940s were a true beginning for ballet in America, but it was just that -- a beginning. And while there were tours by Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, and by great dancers and technicians like Alicia Markova and Alicia Alonso, there wasn't a singular point of view. That would come from Balanchine. But the Balanchine dancer -- which was imperative to his vision -- was still being formed. He didn't want dancers who posed; he wanted dancers who moved.
BALANCHINE HAD WORK TO DO. "He broke us," Walczak said, describing how Balanchine remade his dancers from scratch, starting with the tendu, in which the leg extends to the front, side or back. "He took us with our imperfect bodies," she said. "We would be standing with our back to the barre in fifth position," she added, brushing their feet in each direction, sometimes facing the barre with their arms crossed. They moved slowly, painstakingly so.
"His whole class was like that," she said. "There wasn't a single dance step in the entire class. We never went across the floor!"
Walczak remembers when they were dancing his "Symphony in C" for the first time. Balanchine was watching from the front with the stage manager who said, "'You know, maybe we should bring the lights up a little bit,"' Walczak said. "He said, 'No, no, no! Their feet aren't ready yet. They're not good enough."'
Balanchine dancers have speed, sharpness, musicality and, to Walczak, a new use of the word "and" that gives movement a certain power, an electricity. That and changed the look of ballet. That and ever-flowing motion.
"Like musicians, we moved before the music," she said. "He placed us on the balls of our feet. As the conductor lifted the baton, we moved before any sound was heard. We did not move on the count of one, but on the count of and."
Along with Walczak, Doering and Galle trained at the School of American Ballet. Their teachers included Balanchine when he was in town. "As I advanced more," Galle said, "I did the more advanced classes with him. It was always, 'Move fast! Move fast!"'
She recalled Balanchine as "a man who was always thinking -- as he walked down the studio during a barre or something, you knew that there was music playing in his head and he's thinking of what's coming next."
Galle said her mother had heard about the School of American Ballet, though Galle has no idea how. Galle commuted from Brooklyn after school to take at least two classes a day; when she was 16, she graduated from high school and joined Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo the next month. Balanchine was involved with the company at the time, she said; a number of his dancers were members, too, including Marie-Jeanne, an important Balanchine dancer in the early days, who moved, Walczak said, "like a black panther. No matter how fast it was, she was like a cat."
Galle joined City Ballet, but left after that first season. "Miss Independent had to get off and get some money," she said.
Karlin Brandt, who called those early days "a labor of love," left City Ballet after a few years to join the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo.
After the opening night of Ballet Russe, she found herself face to face with Balanchine. "He looked at me and he said, 'I saw you last night in the last line of the corps de ballet.' He would say things like that. They were very mild, but they were a dig."
At that point, she realized that even if she wanted to return to City Ballet, Balanchine, whom she described as "an odd sort of guy," wouldn't have taken her back. When she was dancing with City Ballet, she was living with her grandparents in Brooklyn; her grandfather was paying for her classes. "I couldn't go on forever, you know?" she said. "It was still not at the point where it was a real job and a real company. But we did some wonderful things."
All four dancers agree that City Ballet wasn't much of a company in 1948; there were no steady seasons -- and no steady income. It wasn't until the early 1950s that the company began performing with regularity. "The Nutcracker," now an annual staple, wasn't choreographed until 1954.
"Our big problem was here we had been having performances and had contracts and had salaries for so many years," Galle said, but with City Ballet, "it just wasn't enough. There was a lot of rehearsal, but no pay, no salary. And I wanted stage work. I wanted to be onstage performing."
Galle, who lives in California and still teaches ballet, went on to perform in "The Show of Shows," with the ballet ensemble at Radio City Music Hall and on Broadway in "Once Upon a Mattress." In its first national tour, Buster Keaton was the King; she and Keaton spent hours playing bridge.
DOERING HAD FOUR BROTHERS who didn't want a sister. They called her Jimmy. "And so I was a little baseball player and my best friend, Judy, went to a ballet class," she said. "And when I went to the ballet class with her and I saw those beautiful pink tutus and toe shoes, I was hooked. I didn't have to be on the baseball team anymore."
A virtuosic dancer who was fearless about turning but, by her own account, poorly trained with weak turnout, Doering said that during her audition for the school the dancers Nicholas Magallanes and Herbert Bliss were standing in the doorway watching her whip through fouetté turns. She was 9.
Balanchine, she said, paid attention to her as a student. "When I went away for the summer and I gained weight," she said, adding that too much bread was the culprit, "he said to me, 'Ruth, if you lose weight, I'm going to give you something special to do.' And I think that ended up being the second lead girl in 'Concerto Barocco."'
She danced it on the company's opening night in 1948 -- but it wasn't easy. "Barocco," at that time, involved elaborate costumes, not the streamlined dress and tights of today. And she had to learn it quickly. "I used to sit in the dressing room and go over the steps in my mind," she said. "It was very specific. It was not do it this way or do it that way."
Doering, who is a cousin of Galle's -- they haven't seen each other in years -- also moved on from the company to television and Broadway, but City Ballet was her true love. "What I remember the most is that I loved dancing in 'Symphony in C' more than I did any other ballet," she said. "And I remember the thunderous applause when the curtain came down. 'Symphony in C' made you dance up a storm."
After that first season, Doering auditioned for Ballet Theater; around 300 people showed up, and they took 10, including her. "So I thought, Well, I better go in," she said. She worked with Jerome Robbins on "Interplay," with Agnes de Mille on "Fall River Legend" and with Frederick Ashton on "Les Patineurs." She went on to dance on the television programs "Your Hit Parade" and "The Garry Moore Show."
Doering, who lives in Arizona and teaches a class mixing ballet, tap and Pilates, said, "If I'd made a decision over, I would have gone back to New York City Ballet," she said. "I definitely would have. There was nobody greater than George Balanchine."
Dancing his ballets, Doering said, feels like you are doing exactly what the music tells you to do. That you couldn't possibly do anything else. "I guess he liked us because we were strong -- and willing. Willing."
BUT WHY DANCE? And why ballet -- which, when these three were young dancers at the School of American Ballet, had only a toehold in America? For Walczak -- who stayed at City Ballet for 12 years, becoming a soloist -- her primal urge to dance makes her think reincarnation could be real. Her parents took her to see an outdoor performance one summer. "There were dancers dressed as fireflies or something, and I was about 4 or 5 years old." she said. "That did it."
She was a sickly child. At 9, she contracted scarlet fever. "After that, the doctor said, 'You know what?"' she recalled. "'We've tried everything. Let her dance."'
She was short, her turnout was nonexistent and her feet needed a lot of work. She is firm about one thing: If her young self were to audition for the School of American Ballet today, she wouldn't get in -- much less into the company. It was never easy for her, but dancing meant too much to quit, even when her teacher took her, at 12, to see Mia Slavenska, a star of Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, perform at Radio City Music Hall. Afterward, they met Slavenska backstage.
She asked for some pliés. "I did two pliés, and she said, 'Forget it,"' Walczak said. "'She will never dance. She has no talent.' And I was destroyed. For two days, I cried. My parents didn't know what to do with me. And then I said, No. I'm going to dance."
At around 14, she auditioned for the School of American Ballet and got in, later performing with Ballet Society, a subscription-based company formed in 1946, in Balanchine's "The Spellbound Child." She was insistent on another point, too: "I just really was not his cup of tea."
She referred to herself as "one of the numbers." She never auditioned. "He knew that I was a very fast learner," she said. "He knew he could always count on me. That no matter what happened, I would learn it. I'd get through it. And I think that was the main thing he respected about me. And I think he saw that I loved to dance."
Walczak was also a sharp observer. (With the dancer Una Kai, she wrote "Balanchine the Teacher," a jewel of a book examining the fundamentals that shaped the company's first generation.) "What made him zero in on a dancer was not only the physical, the technical, the height, the look, whatever -- and Suzanne Farrell's the perfect example of it," she said, referring to Balanchine's muse of the 1960s and '70s. "It's the intangible, uncontrollable timing of her body."
Walczak, who works with dancers and also designs veils and headpieces for brides, left the company in 1960, realizing that she wasn't going to go any further. Coming offstage in "Scotch Symphony," she met Balanchine in the wings. "He said, 'You know, dear, you are very good dancer, but the ones that are coming are going to be better,"' Walczak said. "So he told me, you know, Hey, this is it. Time to go." She knew he was right, but it was hard. "My doctor said I had what is called a walking nervous breakdown," she said. "I cried all the time for a long time."
She didn't want to teach. She didn't want to have anything to do with ballet. But then she changed her mind. With ballet and with Balanchine, she gained more than she lost. "I guess because I was always in love with dance," she said, "after I got over the hurt, the fact that I experienced in my body -- that movement, that timing. That's a treasure."
Photograph Top, George Balanchine, rehearsing "The Goldwyn Follies" in 1938. In his early days as a choreographer, he worked in Hollywood and on Broadway, which influenced his style. Above left, Balanchine worked with Tanaquil Le Clercq and Francisco Moncion during a rehearsal around 1948, the year of New York City Ballet's first performance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNITED ARTISTS/PHOTOFEST; GEORGE PLATT LYNES; WILLIAM McCRACKEN; KELSEY McCLELLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); From top right, three of Balanchine's dancers who performed during New York City Ballet's first season: Ruth Lawrence Doering; Myrna Galle; and Barbara Walczak. Above from left, Walczak around 1959 and archival photos of a young Galle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASSIDY ARAIZA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; KELSEY McCLELLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR8-AR9) This article appeared in print on page AR8, AR9.

Subject: Music; Dance; Ballet; Dancers & choreographers

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

People: Balanchine, George (1904-1983)

Company / organization: Name: New York City Ballet; NAICS: 711120; Name: Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo; NAICS: 711120; Name: School of American Ballet; NAICS: 611610

Title: Present At the Dawn Of a New Light:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 10, 2023

column: Y Ballet At 75

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2862896638

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/present-at-dawn-new-light/docview/2862896638/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

With Ties to Kyiv and Pentagon Cash, Arms Dealer Finds a Fortune: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Scheck, Justin; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas

Publication info: Scheck, Justin; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-ties-kyiv-pentagon-cash-arms-dealer-finds/docview/2862896566/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Billions are pouring into a clubby, secretive arms market. With Pentagon cash and unusually close Ukrainian military ties, Marc Morales has few peers.
A half-dozen or so men gathered last month for afternoon drinks at the penthouse bar of one of Kyiv's swankiest hotels to discuss the lucrative business of arming Ukrainian troops.
The group included Ukrainian military and government officials, who are always in the market for explosive shells to lob at invading Russian soldiers. The center of attention was their gregarious host, a Florida-based arms contractor named Marc Morales, who regaled them with stories of his new $ 10 million yacht, the Trigger Happy, and his search for someone to manage his company's nine-digit portfolio.
And joining the group was a stout, bearded man who served both the buyers and sellers: Vladimir Koyfman, a chief sergeant in the Ukrainian military whom Mr. Morales pays to arrange meetings with his government contacts. That unusual arrangement, legal experts say, tests the boundaries of American and Ukrainian corruption laws prohibiting payments to government officials.
The meeting, which was recounted by two people in attendance, offered a glimpse at a quiet aspect of the Biden administration's war strategy. The administration has sent Ukraine more than $ 40 billion in security aid, including advanced weapons like HIMARS rockets and Patriot missiles. But the Pentagon also relies heavily on little-known arms dealers like Mr. Morales, who have the connections needed to secure ammunition, much of it lower-quality or Soviet-caliber, from around the world.
They operate in a notoriously shadowy, clubby arms trade, an industry made even more opaque as Ukraine rolled back years of anticorruption rules. Arms dealers rushed to the country, backed by billions in foreign aid.
Mr. Morales is among Ukraine's most important such suppliers. The Pentagon has awarded his company about $ 1 billion in contracts, mostly for ammunition. And records show he has built a roughly $ 200 million side business selling to the Ukrainians directly.
In addition to employing Sergeant Koyfman, Mr. Morales hired away a longtime adviser to Ukraine's defense minister, who was fired recently amid concerns over graft and mismanagement. And Mr. Morales's company has been under investigation by Ukrainian anticorruption authorities over a deal that government officials said was botched.
In that way, the deals with Mr. Morales are reminiscent of Ukraine's freewheeling past, when arms dealers forged cozy relationships with military officials, contracts were signed in secret and weapons brokers frequently found themselves under investigation. The United States has lectured Ukraine's leaders for more than a decade about the need to clean up that system.
Mr. Morales, 51, was an unlikely choice as one of the Pentagon's go-to arms dealers.
The Justice Department indicted him in 2009 on conspiracy and money laundering charges after it said he was caught on tape discussing methods for paying bribes to foreign officials. "You just got to be smarter than the government," Mr. Morales said on one recording. (F.B.I. agents badly botched the case, and prosecutors ultimately dropped the charges.)
But the war changed the calculus for the Ukrainians and Americans alike. The Biden administration, seeking to arm Ukraine but reluctant to commit troops, needs people like Mr. Morales, who proved in Afghanistan and Syria that he could consistently acquire and deliver weapons.
And Ukrainian officials, with national survival at stake, welcomed back local arms dealers whom, before the war with Russia, they had worked hard to sideline. Early in the war, which began in February 2022, officials scrapped many public procurement and transparency rules and invited private brokers to compete with government buyers. Now, after the firing of the defense minister, Oleksii Reznikov, Ukrainian officials are publicly questioning this weapons-at-any-cost strategy.
Mr. Morales declined to be interviewed. Bryan Van Brunt, the general counsel for Mr. Morales's company, Global Ordnance, said the company followed the law. "Contrary to what we may see in the movies, long-term success depends upon knowing, fully respecting, and following the rules of all countries involved," he wrote in an email.
Sergeant Koyfman, a Ukrainian American with years of experience as an adviser to Ukraine's national guard, enlisted when Russia invaded, documents reviewed by The New York Times show. His exact military duties are unclear. He told The Times that he is a chief sergeant in the Ukrainian territorial defense forces, where he supervises and trains a cadre of soldiers. "We are fighters," he said.
One government official said Mr. Koyfman is a key person to see about weapons, though it was not clear whether that was because of his military position or his role in Global Ordnance.
For Global Ordnance, Sergeant Koyfman manages contractors in Ukraine and "sets up meetings between our staff and the Ukraine Ministry of Defense," Mr. Van Brunt said.
Sergeant Koyfman said his military work is unpaid. Mr. Van Brunt was adamant that one job had nothing to do with the other. "Global does not pay for access," he said. "Not before. Not now. Not ever." Sergeant Koyfman agreed. "We do training on it every year and sign documents about it," he said.
Mr. Morales hired Sergeant Koyfman in early 2021, in the months before the company signed a deal with Ukraine to buy explosives. Sergeant Koyfman was photographed alongside him at the contract signing. Other photographs show him attending parties that Mr. Morales threw in Tampa, Fla., this past December and May.
Last year, Global Ordnance posted a video on LinkedIn of Sergeant Koyfman, in uniform, standing beside what he said was a mass grave. "We need artillery. We need rockets," Sergeant Koyfman says. He does not identify himself as an employee of Global Ordnance, which sells rockets and artillery shells.
American law prohibits companies from paying foreign officials to benefit their business. The law does not exempt volunteers like Sergeant Koyfman. What matters is whether they have influence, said Daniel Richman, a Columbia Law School professor.
Ukrainian law generally prohibits military officials from engaging in paid outside work. Whether Sergeant Koyfman is covered by that law depends on his military duties, not merely his rank. Early in the war, Sergeant Koyfman wrote a letter to Global Ordnance saying that he was "not an employee of the government" but rather a "civilian warfighter."
Mr. Van Brunt said Ukraine's government knew about Sergeant Koyfman's work for Global Ordnance. He said the State Department, which regulates American arms dealing overseas, had also vetted Sergeant Koyfman.
Asked to confirm that, a State Department spokesman only added a new wrinkle. He said he would not "confirm the existence of investigations into possible violations of the International Trafficking in Arms Regulations." The Times never asked about such an investigation.
Separately, Mr. Morales hired Denis Vanash, a longtime adviser to the defense minister. Mr. Vanash left his post early in the war to communicate with the Defense Ministry on behalf of Global Ordnance. Mr. Van Brunt said the ministry confirmed the legality of the hiring.
Mr. Morales's competitors say that he has an unfair advantage, but it is not his ties to Sergeant Koyfman or Mr. Vanash. It is his ties to the Pentagon.
Arms brokers from around the world are competing for a limited supply of Soviet-style arms, mostly from Eastern Europe, to then sell to Ukraine. With cash pouring in from Washington, Mr. Morales can afford to pay more than his competitors do, several Eastern European arms dealers complained. He then makes good on his American contracts and buys more ammunition on his own to sell to Ukraine directly.
In several cases early in the war, for instance, Mr. Morales outbid rivals to buy explosive shells from Bulgarian arms factories, two competitors said.
Some of the competitors, officials and arms industry figures spoke on the condition of anonymity, either because Ukrainian weapons contracts are classified or because they did not want to get drawn into disputes with Mr. Morales and the Ukrainian government.
There is nothing illegal about outbidding competitors. But it shows how the Pentagon is shaping the global arms market and creating wealthy, politically connected weapons dealers. Ukrainian anti-corruption groups have said the billions of dollars pouring into Eastern European arms markets could shape politics and militaries long after the war's end.
In some ways, complaints about Mr. Morales boil down to the fact that he is doing a better job than others. He has moved missiles, shells, grenades and armored vehicles to Ukraine from Bulgaria, Egypt, Jordan and Pakistan, according to government documents and interviews with weapons traders and government officials. And he is far from the only weapons dealer with relationships in the Ukrainian government.
Mr. Morales's weapons career almost ended after his indictment was unsealed in 2010. In a sting, prosecutors said, an informant recorded him discussing a supposed arms deal involving payments to an official in the West African nation of Gabon.
He left the industry and, for about two years, sold items like chaise longues for his father-in-law's outdoor furniture company. "He took the time to reflect on his life, his relationship with his wife and family, and with God," Mr. Van Brunt said.
In 2012, the federal case disintegrated over issues including the F.B.I.'s handling of its informant. A judge chastised the Justice Department.
A year later, Mr. Morales started Global Ordnance as an arms business consultancy, drawing on more than a decade of experience. He bought a defense contractor and delivered arms to the Pentagon for use against terrorist groups like the Islamic State. His network, spanning the United States, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, proved reliable, and the Pentagon soon became his biggest customer. Global Ordnance won more than $ 78 million in defense contracts from 2016 to 2019, public records show.
Weeks before Russia invaded Ukraine, the Pentagon awarded Global Ordnance a five-year contract worth up to $ 750 million to help arm American allies. That became a vehicle for arming Ukraine. Hundreds of millions of additional dollars followed.
The Pentagon declined to comment on Global Ordnance's contracts.
Mr. Morales's big break in Ukraine came early in the war. He had a warehouse full of ammunition in Bulgaria that the Pentagon had bought for use in Afghanistan. The Pentagon approved sending it instead to Ukraine in January 2022. It was up to Global Ordnance to get it there.
Mr. Morales made that happen. Sergeant Koyfman worked to redirect the ammunition to Ukraine in his role as a Global Ordnance contractor, Mr. Van Brunt said.
That made Mr. Morales invaluable in the war's early days and endeared him to Ukrainian officials.
But there has also been friction.
An unintended consequence of Ukraine's frantic buying was a competition between state-owned firms and private dealers. That drove up prices, costing Ukraine money. When the government buys weapons from state-owned companies, the government profits off the deal. When it buys from private sellers, the brokers profit.
That is legal, but has at times frustrated Ukrainian officials. One example involved the purchase of armored vehicles, which the military was desperate to receive. Early in the war, a government-owned company called Ukrinmash negotiated a roughly $ 65 million deal with an Egyptian seller to buy nearly 200 vehicles, said a person involved in the deal.
Then the deal stalled.
Soon after, Mr. Morales emerged with a contract to provide similar vehicles at similar prices. The difference was that Global Ordnance, not the government-owned company, would earn the profits.
Problems followed. The vehicles arrived improperly outfitted, said Volodymyr Havrylov, an assistant defense minister in Ukraine. Anti-corruption officials began investigating the deal, he said. Investigators have asked questions about both Mr. Morales and the Defense Ministry officials who authorized the contract, according to one person who was interviewed.
The Defense Ministry said that the investigation had been "eliminated." Anti-corruption officials would not confirm that.
Mr. Van Brunt said that Ukrainian authorities routinely investigated military deals. "This is an 'investigation,' and to conflate it with what the public may understand to be an investigation would be inaccurate," he wrote in an email. He declined to comment on the deal itself.
By the end of last year, Mr. Morales's success was evident at home in Tampa. Global Ordnance flew its employees in from Kyiv, Ukraine's capital, to attend a Christmas party. Mr. Morales posted on Facebook a photograph of himself with his colleagues: Sergeant Koyfman wore wraparound sunglasses and a black T-shirt with an American flag-painted skull. Mr. Vanash wore a traditional Ukrainian shirt embroidered with red and yellow flowers.
Mr. Morales sees a bright future in Ukraine. At the penthouse bar last month, conversation turned toward "large contracts that were about to be awarded," Mr. Van Brunt said. Officials asked whether the company could handle big new deals.
Mr. Morales assured them that it could.
Reporting was contributed by Natalia Yermak, Daria Mitiuk, John Ismay and Tomas Dapkus.
Reporting was contributed by Natalia Yermak, Daria Mitiuk, John Ismay and Tomas Dapkus.
Photograph The American military contractor Marc Morales, center, posing with two employees -- Vladimir Koyfman, left, a chief sergeant in the Ukrainian military, and Denys Vanash, a former Defense Ministry adviser. The company's arrangement has drawn scrutiny.; Left, Ukrainian forces carried weapons for a training exercise in February. Right, ammunition stored by the Ukrainian military. Global Ordnance has received nearly $ 1 billion in Pentagon contracts for ammunition, and Mr. Morales has a lucrative side business. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILE DUCKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DIEGO IBARRA SANCHEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mr. Morales, second from left, hired Sergeant Koyfman, left, in 2021. The men were photographed together at a contract signing. This article appeared in print on page A8.

Subject: Indictments; Ammunition; Public officials; Competition

Location: Kyiv Ukraine; Russia; Ukraine

Company / organization: Name: Department of Defense; NAICS: 928110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/09/world/europe/ukraine-military-arms-dealer-pentagon.html

Title: With Ties to Kyiv and Pentagon Cash, Arms Dealer Finds a Fortune:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 10, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862896566

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/with-ties-kyiv-pentagon-cash-arms-dealer-finds/docview/2862896566/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Physical and Spiritual Awakening (but No Steady Paycheck)

Author: Kourlas, Gia

Publication info: Kourlas, Gia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/physical-spiritual-awakening-no-steady-paycheck/docview/2862799843/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — There were moments of total exhaustion. A young dancer, having performed a difficult matinee and faced with an evening show, slipped into her dressing room. She placed something soft on the ground to cushion her body from the concrete floor. She lay down. She listened.
As the afternoon light faded, streetlights switched on. She could hear buses, cars, footsteps, horns — images and sounds that haven’t faded from the memory of Barbara Walczak, one of three living dancers who performed at New York City Ballet’s opening night at City Center for Music and Drama in 1948.
Sitting at a table in her winding, treasure-filled Manhattan apartment, she took a breath. “And then my mind would return,” Walczak said, “and I would look ahead to the evening performance with such gratitude to be doing what I loved.”
Walczak, 92, always wanted to dance. Back then, transplanted into the ballet universe of Russian choreographer George Balanchine, this young American from Astoria, Queens, found her joy, her bliss, her reason for living. Balanchine was re-imagining ballet as an American art form, and she was a part of it.
Balanchine is now part of popular culture. But it’s revealing that the dancers of that time, as unformed as they were, realized that his vision was worth fighting for; perhaps, they could see his future as well as their own. To dance was one thing, but as Walczak knew, to dance the ballets of Balanchine was something more — a way, she said, “to feel the freedom of the music propelling through my body.” It was a physical and spiritual awakening.
On Oct. 11, 1948, City Ballet made its debut as a company with three Balanchine ballets: “Concerto Barocco,” “Orpheus” and “Symphony in C.” Now, 75 years later, as part of its anniversary celebration, the company will re-create that program, again on Oct. 11. Before that, though, there will be another memorable night: The fall season’s opener, on Sept. 19 — a performance of Balanchine’s “Jewels” (1967) — will include a tribute to its dancers, 75 years’ worth.
Wendy Whelan, the company’s associate artistic director, has been in touch with many of them, in particular with the three who were there at the beginning: Walczak, Ruth Lawrence Doering, known then as Ruth Gilbert (she declined to give her age), and Myrna Galle, 93. “I just felt like that umbilical cord was reinvigorated,” Whelan said of finding former dancers on LinkedIn and on Facebook or digging into Instagram to find names and connections.
When she talked to them, she could feel her face heat up. “I’m beaming with a smile, I’m like bubbling inside,” she said. “And I’m very much invigorated by their energy and by their stories and their excitement.”
A CHOREOGRAPHER IS NOTHING without dancers. When Balanchine arrived in New York in 1933, America had much to admire. Modern dance, notably companies led by women — the great Martha Graham among them; jazz; Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire. What it didn’t have was a strong tradition of ballet and, with that, an arsenal of trained dancers. Balanchine had to make them to his requirements — with clean technique, devoid of mannerism and artifice.
He wanted dancers who could move big and take up space; who could tilt and bend and fall off center, thrillingly, all the while paying attention to the in-between moments of notes and steps. It would not be just about the music, which meant everything to Balanchine, but showing bodies moving through it. Agility, musicality, timing — dancers who aren’t playing characters but showing their individual essence through classical dance. This is what Balanchine training creates, and what still sets City Ballet apart from other companies.
There were many bumps along the way, but the creation of such dancers and such an enterprise began in 1934, when the School of American Ballet, formed by Balanchine and arts patron and writer Lincoln Kirstein, opened its doors.
Before Balanchine arrived in New York, so much had already happened to shape his life and view of ballet. He was just 9 when he was dropped off at the Imperial Ballet School in St. Petersburg, Russia — virtually abandoned by his mother and feeling miserable until he found himself onstage in “The Sleeping Beauty.” Suddenly, ballet was more than ballet, it was a home — the theater. Unfortunately, the Russian Revolution was right around the corner, and his life was soon turned upside down. He was cold, he was hungry; he was in survival mode.
He started making dances as a teenager, and by 1924, his experiments in choreography were being noticed, and he made his way to Western Europe with a small touring group. He never returned to live in what was then the Soviet Union; instead, he joined Sergei Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes where he found his choreographic voice.
But Diaghilev died in 1929, and Balanchine became ill with tuberculosis. In 1931, he was asked to serve as the ballet master of the new Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo, but he soon left and formed his own company, Les Ballets 1933.
While short-lived — a blink of four weeks! — Les Ballets was critical. Kirstein attended a performance in London, and he had a dream: to create an American ballet. He envisioned a company of dancers that instilled ballet with a modern American spirit. He needed an artistic leader, a choreographer not covered in cobwebs and old-fashioned story ballets — a ballet master capable of creating sleek, classical American dancers. He needed Balanchine.
Plenty still had to happen before City Ballet was formed. There were precursors, groups led by Balanchine and Kirstein from 1934 to 1947; and Balanchine spent time in Hollywood and on Broadway, where he was able to work with Black dancers who would greatly influence his choreographic approach to classical ballet.
The 1940s were a true beginning for ballet in America, but it was just that — a beginning. And while there were tours by Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, and by great dancers and technicians like Alicia Markova and Alicia Alonso, there wasn’t a singular point of view. That would come from Balanchine. But the Balanchine dancer — which was imperative to his vision — was still being formed. He didn’t want dancers who posed; he wanted dancers who moved .
BALANCHINE HAD WORK TO DO. “He broke us,” Walczak said, describing how Balanchine remade his dancers from scratch, starting with the tendu, in which the leg extends to the front, side or back. “He took us with our imperfect bodies,” she said. “We would be standing with our back to the barre in fifth position,” she added, brushing their feet in each direction, sometimes facing the barre with their arms crossed. They moved slowly, painstakingly so.
“His whole class was like that,” she said. “There wasn’t a single dance step in the entire class. We never went across the floor!”
Walczak remembers when they were dancing his “Symphony in C” for the first time. Balanchine was watching from the front with the stage manager who said, “‘You know, maybe we should bring the lights up a little bit,’” Walczak said. “He said: ‘No, no, no! Their feet aren’t ready yet. They’re not good enough.’”
Balanchine dancers have speed, sharpness, musicality and, to Walczak, a new use of the word “and” that gives movement a certain power, an electricity. That and changed the look of ballet. That and ever-flowing motion.
“Like musicians, we moved before the music,” she said. “He placed us on the balls of our feet. As the conductor lifted the baton, we moved before any sound was heard. We did not move on the count of one, but on the count of and.”
Along with Walczak, Doering and Galle trained at the School of American Ballet. Their teachers included Balanchine. “As I advanced more,” Galle said, “I did the more advanced classes with him. It was always: ‘Move fast! Move fast!’”
She recalled him as “a man who was always thinking — as he walked down the studio during a barre or something, you knew that there was music playing in his head and he’s thinking of what’s coming next.”
Galle said her mother had heard about the School of American Ballet. She commuted from Brooklyn after school to take at least two classes a day; when she was 16, she graduated from high school and joined Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. Balanchine was involved with the company at the time, she said; a number of his dancers were members, too, including Marie-Jeanne, an important Balanchine dancer in the early days, who moved, Walczak said, “like a black panther — no matter how fast it was, she was like a cat.”
Galle joined City Ballet but left after that first season. “Miss Independent had to get off and get some money,” she said.
All three dancers agree that City Ballet wasn’t much of a company in 1948; there were no steady seasons — and no steady income. It wasn’t until the early 1950s that the company began performing with regularity. “The Nutcracker,” now an annual staple, wasn’t choreographed until 1954.
“Our big problem was here we had been having performances and had contracts and had salaries for so many years,” Galle said, but with City Ballet, “it just wasn’t enough. There was a lot of rehearsal, but no pay, no salary. And I wanted stage work. I wanted to be onstage performing.”
Galle, who lives in California and still teaches ballet, went on to perform in “The Show of Shows,” with the ballet ensemble at Radio City Music Hall and on Broadway in “Once Upon a Mattress.” In its first national tour, Buster Keaton was the King; she and Keaton spent hours playing bridge.
DOERING HAD FOUR BROTHERS who didn’t want a sister. They called her Jimmy. “And so I was a little baseball player and my best friend, Judy, went to a ballet class,” she said. “And when I went to the ballet class with her and I saw those beautiful pink tutus and toe shoes, I was hooked. I didn’t have to be on the baseball team anymore.”
A virtuosic dancer who was fearless about turning but, by her own account, poorly trained, Doering said that during her audition for the school dancers Nicholas Magallanes and Herbert Bliss were standing in the doorway watching her whip through fouetté turns. She was 9.
Balanchine, she said, paid attention to her as a student. “When I went away for the summer and I gained weight,” she said, adding that too much bread was the culprit, “he said to me, ‘Ruth, if you lose weight, I’m going to give you something special to do.’ And I think that ended up being the second lead girl in ‘Concerto Barocco.’”
She danced it on the company’s opening night in 1948 — but it wasn’t easy. She had to learn it quickly. “I used to sit in the dressing room and go over the steps in my mind,” she said. “It was very specific. It was not do it this way or do it that way.”
Doering, who is a cousin of Galle’s — they haven’t seen each other in years — also moved on from the company to television and Broadway, but City Ballet was her true love. “What I remember the most is that I loved dancing in ‘Symphony in C’ more than I did any other ballet,” she said. “And I remember the thunderous applause when the curtain came down. ‘Symphony in C’ made you dance up a storm.”
After that first season, Doering auditioned for Ballet Theater; around 300 people showed up, and they took 10, including her. “So I thought, Well, I better go in,” she said. She worked with Jerome Robbins on “Interplay,” with Agnes de Mille on “Fall River Legend” and with Frederick Ashton on “Les Patineurs.” She went on to dance on the television programs “Your Hit Parade” and “The Garry Moore Show.”
Doering, who lives in Arizona and teaches a class mixing ballet, tap and Pilates, said: “If I’d made a decision over, I would have gone back to New York City Ballet. I definitely would have. There was nobody greater than George Balanchine.”
Dancing his ballets, Doering said, feels like you are doing exactly what the music tells you to do. That you couldn’t possibly do anything else. “I guess he liked us because we were strong — and willing. Willing.”
BUT WHY DANCE? And why ballet — which, when these three were at the School of American Ballet, had only a toehold in America? For Walczak — who stayed at City Ballet for 12 years, becoming a soloist — her primal urge to dance makes her think reincarnation could be real. Her parents took her to see an outdoor performance one summer. “There were dancers dressed as fireflies or something, and I was about 4 or 5 years old.” she said. “That did it.”
She was a sickly child. At 9, she contracted scarlet fever. “After that, the doctor said, ‘You know what?’” she recalled. “‘We’ve tried everything. Let her dance.’”
She was short, her turnout was nonexistent and her feet needed a lot of work. She is firm about one thing: If her young self were to audition for the School of American Ballet today, she wouldn’t get in — much less into the company. It was never easy for her, but dancing meant too much to quit, even when her teacher took her, at 12, to see Mia Slavenska, a star of Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, perform at Radio City Music Hall. Afterward, they met Slavenska backstage.
She asked for some pliés. “I did two pliés, and she said, ‘Forget it,’” Walczak said. “‘She will never dance. She has no talent.’ And I was destroyed. For two days, I cried. My parents didn’t know what to do with me. And then I said: No. I’m going to dance.”
At around 14, she auditioned for the School of American Ballet and got in, later performing with Ballet Society, a subscription-based company formed in 1946, in Balanchine’s “The Spellbound Child.” She was insistent on another point, too: “I just really was not his cup of tea.”
She referred to herself as “one of the numbers.” She never auditioned. “He knew that I was a very fast learner,” she said. “He knew he could always count on me. That no matter what happened, I would learn it. I’d get through it. And I think that was the main thing he respected about me. And I think he saw that I loved to dance.”
Walczak was also a sharp observer. (With dancer Una Kai, she wrote “Balanchine the Teacher,” a jewel of a book examining the fundamentals that shaped the company’s first generation.) “What made him zero in on a dancer was not only the physical, the technical, the height, the look, whatever — and Suzanne Farrell’s the perfect example of it,” she said, referring to Balanchine’s muse of the 1960s and ’70s. “It’s the intangible, uncontrollable timing of her body.”
Walczak, who works with dancers and also designs veils and headpieces for brides, left the company in 1960. Coming offstage in “Scotch Symphony,” she met Balanchine in the wings. “He said, ‘You know, dear, you are very good dancer, but the ones that are coming are going to be better,’” she said. “So he told me, you know: Hey, this is it. Time to go.” She knew he was right, but it was hard. “My doctor said I had what is called a walking nervous breakdown,” she said. “I cried all the time for a long time.”
She didn’t want to teach or have anything to do with ballet. But then she changed her mind. With ballet and with Balanchine, she gained more than she lost. “I guess because I was always in love with dance,” she said, “after I got over the hurt, the fact that I experienced in my body — that movement, that timing. That’s a treasure.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Music; Dance; Ballet; Dancers & choreographers

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

People: Balanchine, George (1904-1983)

Company / organization: Name: New York City Ballet; NAICS: 711120; Name: Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo; NAICS: 711120; Name: School of American Ballet; NAICS: 611610

Identifier / keyword: Arts; Keaton, Buster; Farrell, Suzanne; Imperial (Calif); Queens (Nyc); Ballet Russe De Monte Carlo; Age, Chronological; Deaths (Obituaries); Balanchine, George; Gibney Dance; Ussr (Former Soviet Union); New York City; Nineteen Hundred Sixties; Entertainment; Minor Leagues; De Mille, Agnes G; Western Europe; Graham, Martha, Dance Co; Linkedin Corporation; Arizona; Kai (1990 ); St Petersburg (Russia); Relocation Of Business; Corporations; Orpheus Chamber Orchestra; Politics And Government; Hollywood (Calif); California; Marie Jeanne; Rogers, Ginger; Dresses; Graham, Martha; Dancing; Culture (Arts); Astaire, Fred; School Of American Ballet; Ashton, Frederick; Markova, Alicia (1910 2004); Europe; Exercise; New York City Center Theater; Instagram Inc; Love (Emotion); Brooklyn (Nyc); Wages And Salaries; Music; Senses And Sensation; Radio City Music Hall; Weight; Treasure Troves; Actors And Actresses; Facebook Inc; Theater; New York City Ballet; Education (K 12); Kirstein, Lincoln; Ears And Hearing; Astoria (Queens, Ny); Alonso, Alicia; Seasons And Months; Ballets Russes; Magazines; Russia; Transit Systems; Television; Lawrence (Ny); Robbins, Jerome; Diaghilev, Serge; Doctors; Manhattan (Nyc); Transplants; Height (Stature); Time (Magazine); Whelan, Wendy; Classical Music

Title: A Physical and Spiritual Awakening (but No Steady Paycheck)

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 9, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-09T15:27:53Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: Genera l Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862799843

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/physical-spiritual-awakening-no-steady-paycheck/docview/2862799843/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Ukraine, a U.S. Arms Dealer Is Making a Fortune and Testing Limits

Author: Scheck, Justin; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas

Publication info: Scheck, Justin; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ukraine-u-s-arms-dealer-is-making-fortune-testing/docview/2862799841/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
KYIV, Ukraine — A half-dozen or so men gathered last month for afternoon drinks at the penthouse bar of one of Kyiv, Ukraine’s swankiest hotels to discuss the lucrative business of arming Ukrainian troops.
The group included Ukrainian military and government officials, who are always in the market for explosive shells to lob at invading Russian soldiers. The center of attention was their gregarious host, a Florida-based arms contractor named Marc Morales, who regaled them with stories of his new $10 million yacht, the Trigger Happy, and his search for someone to manage his company’s nine-digit portfolio.
And joining the group was a stout, bearded man who served both the buyers and sellers: Vladimir Koyfman, a chief sergeant in the Ukrainian military whom Morales pays to arrange meetings with his government contacts. That unusual arrangement, legal experts say, tests the boundaries of U.S. and Ukrainian corruption laws prohibiting payments to government officials.
The meeting, which was recounted by two people in attendance, offered a glimpse at a quiet aspect of the Biden administration’s war strategy. The administration has sent Ukraine more than $40 billion in security aid, including advanced weapons like HIMARS rockets and Patriot missiles. But the Pentagon also relies heavily on little-known arms dealers like Morales, who have the connections needed to secure ammunition, much of it lower-quality or Soviet-caliber, from around the world.
They operate in a notoriously shadowy, clubby arms trade, an industry made even more opaque as Ukraine rolled back years of anti-corruption rules. Arms dealers rushed to the country, backed by billions in foreign aid.
Morales is among Ukraine’s most important such suppliers. The Pentagon has awarded his company about $1 billion in contracts, mostly for ammunition. And records show he has built a roughly $200 million side business selling to the Ukrainians directly.
In addition to employing Koyfman, Morales hired away a longtime adviser to Ukraine’s defense minister, who was fired recently amid concerns over graft and mismanagement. And Morales’ company has been under investigation by Ukrainian anti-corruption authorities over a deal that government officials said was botched.
In that way, the deals with Morales are reminiscent of Ukraine’s freewheeling past, when arms dealers forged cozy relationships with military officials, contracts were signed in secret, and weapons brokers frequently found themselves under investigation. The United States has lectured Ukraine’s leaders for more than a decade about the need to clean up that system.
Morales, 51, was an unlikely choice as one of the Pentagon’s go-to arms dealers.
The Justice Department indicted him in 2009 on conspiracy and money laundering charges after it said he was caught on tape discussing methods for paying bribes to foreign officials. “You just got to be smarter than the government,” Morales said on one recording. (FBI agents badly botched the case, and prosecutors ultimately dropped the charges.)
But the war changed the calculus for the Ukrainians and Americans alike. The Biden administration, seeking to arm Ukraine but reluctant to commit troops, needs people like Morales, who proved in Afghanistan and Syria that he could consistently acquire and deliver weapons.
And Ukrainian officials, with national survival at stake, welcomed back local arms dealers whom, before the war with Russia, they had worked hard to sideline. Early in the war, which began in February 2022, officials scrapped many public procurement and transparency rules and invited private brokers to compete with government buyers. Now, after the firing of the defense minister, Oleksii Reznikov, Ukrainian officials are publicly questioning this weapons-at-any-cost strategy.
Morales declined to be interviewed. Bryan Van Brunt, the general counsel for Morales’ company, Global Ordnance, said the company followed the law. “Contrary to what we may see in the movies, long-term success depends upon knowing, fully respecting, and following the rules of all countries involved,” he wrote in an email.
Koyfman, a Ukrainian American with years of experience as an adviser to Ukraine’s national guard, enlisted when Russia invaded, documents reviewed by The New York Times show. His exact military duties are unclear. He told the Times that he is a chief sergeant in the Ukrainian territorial defense forces, where he supervises and trains a cadre of soldiers. “We are fighters,” he said.
One government official said Koyfman is a key person to see about weapons, though it was not clear whether that was because of his military position or his role in Global Ordnance.
For Global Ordnance, Koyfman manages contractors in Ukraine and “sets up meetings between our staff and the Ukraine Ministry of Defense,” Van Brunt said.
Koyfman said his military work is unpaid. Van Brunt was adamant that one job had nothing to do with the other. “Global does not pay for access,” he said. “Not before. Not now. Not ever.”
Koyfman agreed. “We do training on it every year and sign documents about it,” he said.
Morales hired Koyfman in early 2021, in the months before the company signed a deal with Ukraine to buy explosives. Koyfman was photographed alongside him at the contract-signing. Other photographs show him attending parties that Morales threw in Tampa, Florida, this past December and May.
Last year, Global Ordnance posted a video on LinkedIn of Koyfman, in uniform, standing beside what he said was a mass grave. “We need artillery. We need rockets,” Koyfman says. He does not identify himself as an employee of Global Ordnance, which sells rockets and artillery shells.
U.S. law prohibits companies from paying foreign officials to benefit their business. The law does not exempt volunteers like Koyfman. What matters is whether they have influence, said Daniel Richman, a Columbia Law School professor.
Ukrainian law generally prohibits military officials from engaging in paid outside work. Whether Koyfman is covered by that law depends on his military duties, not merely his rank. Early in the war, Koyfman wrote a letter to Global Ordnance saying that he was “not an employee of the government” but rather a “civilian warfighter.”
Van Brunt said Ukraine’s government knew about Koyfman’s work for Global Ordnance. He said the State Department, which regulates U.S. arms dealing overseas, had also vetted Koyfman.
Asked to confirm that, a State Department spokesperson only added a new wrinkle. He said he would not “confirm the existence of investigations into possible violations of the International Trafficking in Arms Regulations.” The Times never asked about such an investigation.
Separately, Morales hired Denis Vanash, a longtime adviser to the defense minister. Vanash left his post early in the war to communicate with the Defense Ministry on behalf of Global Ordnance. Van Brunt said the ministry confirmed the legality of the hiring.
Morales’ competitors say that he has an unfair advantage, but it is not his ties to Koyfman or Vanash. It is his ties to the Pentagon.
Arms brokers from around the world are competing for a limited supply of Soviet-style arms, mostly from Eastern Europe, to then sell to Ukraine. With cash pouring in from Washington, Morales can afford to pay more than his competitors do, several Eastern European arms dealers complained. He then makes good on his U.S. contracts and buys more ammunition on his own to sell to Ukraine directly.
In several cases early in the war, for instance, Morales outbid rivals to buy explosive shells from Bulgarian arms factories, two competitors said.
Some of the competitors, officials and arms industry figures spoke on the condition of anonymity, either because Ukrainian weapons contracts are classified or because they did not want to get drawn into disputes with Morales and the Ukrainian government.
There is nothing illegal about outbidding competitors. But it shows how the Pentagon is shaping the global arms market and creating wealthy, politically connected weapons dealers. Ukrainian anti-corruption groups have said the billions of dollars pouring into Eastern European arms markets could shape politics and militaries long after the war’s end.
In some ways, complaints about Morales boil down to the fact that he is doing a better job than others. He has moved missiles, shells, grenades and armored vehicles to Ukraine from Bulgaria, Egypt, Jordan and Pakistan, according to government documents and interviews with weapons traders and government officials. And he is far from the only weapons dealer with relationships in the Ukrainian government.
Morales’ weapons career almost ended after his indictment was unsealed in 2010. In a sting, prosecutors said, an informant recorded him discussing a supposed arms deal involving payments to an official in the West African nation of Gabon.
He left the industry and, for about two years, sold items like chaise longues for his father-in-law’s outdoor furniture company. “He took the time to reflect on his life, his relationship with his wife and family, and with God,” Van Brunt said.
In 2012, the federal case disintegrated over issues including the FBI’s handling of its informant. A judge chastised the Justice Department.
A year later, Morales started Global Ordnance as an arms business consultancy, drawing on more than a decade of experience. He bought a defense contractor and delivered arms to the Pentagon for use against terrorist groups like the Islamic State. His network, spanning the United States, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, proved reliable, and the Pentagon soon became his biggest customer. Global Ordnance won more than $78 million in defense contracts from 2016 to 2019, public records show.
Weeks before Russia invaded Ukraine, the Pentagon awarded Global Ordnance a five-year contract worth up to $750 million to help arm U.S. allies. That became a vehicle for arming Ukraine. Hundreds of millions of additional dollars followed.
The Pentagon declined to comment on Global Ordnance’s contracts.
Morales’ big break in Ukraine came early in the war. He had a warehouse full of ammunition in Bulgaria that the Pentagon had bought for use in Afghanistan. The Pentagon approved sending it instead to Ukraine in January 2022. It was up to Global Ordnance to get it there.
Morales made that happen. Koyfman worked to redirect the ammunition to Ukraine in his role as a Global Ordnance contractor, Van Brunt said.
That made Morales invaluable in the war’s early days and endeared him to Ukrainian officials.
But there has also been friction.
An unintended consequence of Ukraine’s frantic buying was a competition between state-owned firms and private dealers. That drove up prices, costing Ukraine money. When the government buys weapons from state-owned companies, the government profits off the deal. When it buys from private sellers, the brokers profit.
That is legal but has at times frustrated Ukrainian officials. One example involved the purchase of armored vehicles, which the military was desperate to receive. Early in the war, a government-owned company called Ukrinmash negotiated a roughly $65 million deal with an Egyptian seller to buy nearly 200 vehicles, said a person involved in the deal.
Then the deal stalled.
Soon after, Morales emerged with a contract to provide similar vehicles at similar prices. The difference was that Global Ordnance, not the government-owned company, would earn the profits.
Problems followed. The vehicles arrived improperly outfitted, said Volodymyr Havrylov, an assistant defense minister in Ukraine. Anti-corruption officials began investigating the deal, he said. Investigators have asked questions about both Morales and the Defense Ministry officials who authorized the contract, according to one person who was interviewed.
The Defense Ministry said that the investigation had been “eliminated.” Anti-corruption officials would not confirm that.
Van Brunt said that Ukrainian authorities routinely investigated military deals. “This is an ‘investigation,’ and to conflate it with what the public may understand to be an investigation would be inaccurate,” he wrote in an email. He declined to comment on the deal itself.
By the end of last year, Morales’ success was evident at home in Tampa. Global Ordnance flew its employees in from Kyiv, Ukraine’s capital, to attend a Christmas party. Morales posted on Facebook a photograph of himself with his colleagues: Koyfman wore wraparound sunglasses and a black T-shirt with an American flag-painted skull. Vanash wore a traditional Ukrainian shirt embroidered with red and yellow flowers.
Morales sees a bright future in Ukraine. At the penthouse bar last month, conversation turned toward “large contracts that were about to be awarded,” Van Brunt said. Officials asked whether the company could handle big new deals.
Morales assured them that it could.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Ammunition; Corruption; Indictments; Public officials; Military personnel; Competition

Location: Russia; New York; United States--US; Kyiv Ukraine; Florida; Ukraine

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Department of Defense; NAICS: 928110; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Bribery And Kickbacks; United States Defense And Military Forces; Real Estate (Commercial); United States International Relations; Firearms; New York Times; Florida; Ussr (Former Soviet Union); Eastern Europe; United States; Company Reports; Ukraine; Linkedin Corporation; Defense Contracts; Syria; Careers And Professions; Justice Department; Ukrainian Americans; Reznikov, Oleksii; Gabon; Politics And Government; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Bulgaria; Arms Trade; Hiring And Promotion; Europe; Islamic State In Iraq And Syria (Isis); Defense And Military Forces; Defense Department; Middle East; World; Law And Legislation; International Relations; Money Laundering; Corruption (Institutional); Facebook Inc; Workplace Environment; Pakistan; Foreign Aid; Uniforms; Kyiv (Ukraine); Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Afghanistan; Labor And Jobs; Jordan; Russia; Informers; Africa; Afghanistan War (2001 ); Government Contracts And Procurement; Tampa (Fla); Names, Organizational; Appointments And Executive Changes; Terrorism; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Egypt

Title: In Ukraine, a U.S. Arms Dealer Is Making a Fortune and Testing Limits

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 9, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-09T16:58:39Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2862799841

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ukraine-u-s-arms-dealer-is-making-fortune-testing/d ocview/2862799841/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 9, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A LinkedIn Post Come to Life: [Op-Ed]

Author: Manjoo, Farhad

Publication info: Manjoo, Farhad. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/linkedin-post-come-life/docview/2862589902/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Last year, for a column I was writing about the power that large asset managers like BlackRock and Vanguard exert over the global economy, I called up Vivek Ramaswamy. He was delighted to hear from me.
I don't mean this as self-aggrandizement. Ramaswamy was set to start Strive, an asset management company he hoped would take on the BlackRocks and Vanguards of the world, and was about to publish his second book, so he had good reason to court media attention. Still, I found his enthusiasm noteworthy; as a journalist who covers Silicon Valley, I'm used to chatting up smooth-operator entrepreneurs eager for coverage, but Ramaswamy's media hustle was of a different order.
He told me I could call him anytime I'd like to bounce ideas off a "thought partner." He sent me a PDF of his upcoming book -- "No one has seen an advance copy yet" -- and followed up to ask, seemingly earnestly, for my thoughts on his thesis. And when I joked, in my piece, that the title of his first book, "Woke, Inc.: Inside Corporate America's Social Justice Scam," sounded "as if it had been formulated in a lab at Fox News to maximally tickle the base and trigger the libs," he texted me with an explanation that he suggested I append to the published column:
My publisher (Hachette) and I selected the book title long before the word "woke" had become weaponized in the culture wars. Today, I mostly don't even use that word anymore; it's not part of my vernacular today. It was suggested to me as a title by a self-identified "far-left" friend in early 2020. The word took on a different valence between then and late 2021 when my book was published. I just wanted you to know that, since I saw you mused about the etymology of the title in your piece. It certainly wasn't cooked up in a Fox News lab, and in all honesty the goal wasn't to trigger anyone. If anything, my goal with the book was to provide a unifying voice across culturally fraught questions, and I think most left-wing readers of the book would agree that it was at least clear I tried to do that.
Maybe that was all really the case. But I got the impression that he was also trying -- a little too hard -- to paint himself in a light that he thought might appeal to a lefty Times columnist.
In the wake of his breakout performance at last month's Republican primary debate, much has been made of Ramaswamy's irrepressible annoyingness -- is it a bug that could prevent him from winning the G.O.P. presidential nomination, or is it the feature that could help him secure it? But what I found striking about Ramaswamy, both in our conversations and on the debate stage, was not that he's especially irritating (how many people who run for president aren't?) but that he represents a distinct, very familiar flavor of irritation: He's the epitome of millennial hustle culture, less a Tracy Flick know-it-all than a viral LinkedIn post come to life. The guy who's always mining and nurturing new connections, always leveraging those connections into the next new thing, always selling and always, always closing.
Seen this way, Ramaswamy's otherwise quixotic-seeming presidential run makes perfect sense. Whether or not it wins him elected office, running for the White House is the ultimate rise and grind, and it probably offers far more upside than down. Incessant, glad-handed striving has already made Ramaswamy a wealthy man. According to a report in Politico this year, his campaign said he's ready to put more than $ 100 million into his presidential bid, but because this latest side hustle feeds so neatly into his other projects, it's hardly clear that the run will be so costly. Measured in name recognition, the expansion of his network or future moneymaking opportunities, running for president could well add to his riches.
Take Strive, the management company he co-founded. In "Woke, Inc.," Ramaswamy lamented what he saw as the pollution of capitalist principles with social justice activism. Rather than focus on the bottom line, he argued, the leaders of America's largest corporations had allowed their employees and other elites to goad them into adopting what he said are costly political stances on race, gender, climate and other charged issues.
This isn't exactly a groundbreaking position on the right -- combating corporate wokeness is basically Ron DeSantis's whole thing. But whereas DeSantis's fixation on all things woke is primarily a vehicle for his political ascent, Ramaswamy saw in wokeness a larger opportunity. He would write a book and guest essays assailing corporate E.S.G. (environmental, social and governance) practices, and he was also considering a political run, but to really "move the needle," he told me, would also require taking on "the asset management ideological cartel." And backed with a reported $ 20 million from billionaire investors and tech entrepreneurs he'd courted, among them Bill Ackman and Peter Thiel, he started Strive.
That's not a lot of money with which to take on the giants of asset management -- BlackRock and Vanguard each manage trillions in assets -- but Ramaswamy's hustle was unceasing. Three months after it opened for business, Strive announced that it had already attracted $ 500 million in investments for its anti-woke E.T.F.s, or exchange-traded funds. In June it reported $ 750 million in assets under management, and this week it reported crossing the $ 1 billion mark. That's minuscule compared with the giants, but its growth is significant; in July, Semafor's Liz Hoffman noted that it took J.P. Morgan two years to reach $ 1 billion in assets after it started offering E.T.F.s in 2014.
"It is a rare feat for any indie issuer to hit $ 1 billion in first year," Eric Balchunas, a Bloomberg Intelligence analyst, told Bloomberg News of Strive's accomplishment. "Ramaswamy's wealthy backers helped a lot, and running for president probably can't hurt, either." You think?
Ramaswamy no longer works at Strive. Via email, the company told me that he was the executive chairman of the board and ran day-to-day operations until February, when he stepped down to run for president.
But he still has a huge interest in its success. In an S.E.C. filing last month, Ramaswamy is identified as the company's majority shareholder. In a financial disclosure form filed in June, Ramaswamy valued his stake in Strive at over $ 50 million -- a remarkable amount for a company that's just about a year old, where he worked for just months. His disclosure listed his stake in Roivant Sciences, a biotech company he was previously the chief executive of, at over $ 50 million as well. (Forbes recently calculated Ramaswamy's net worth at around $ 950 million.)
Looking back on my exchange with Ramaswamy, I find it interesting how hard he pushed back on his association with the word "woke"; he hasn't shied away from it on the campaign trail. In February, when he announced his candidacy in The Wall Street Journal, he wrote that "America is in the midst of a national identity crisis" and that "the Republican Party's top priority should be to fill this void with an inspiring national identity that dilutes the woke agenda to irrelevance."
But his current comfort with "woke" works for winning over a G.O.P. primary audience. When he needs to cultivate a broader base, whether in the general election or in hopes of expanding his Rolodex for whatever side hustle comes next, I'm sure he won't hesitate to reach out and tell me just what he thinks I want to hear.
Office Hours With Farhad Manjoo
Farhad wants to chat with readers on the phone . If you're interested in talking to a New York Times columnist about anything that's on your mind, please fill out this form. Farhad will select a few readers to call.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE KELTER DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: National identity; Social justice; Presidents; Asset management

Business indexing term: Subject: Asset management

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/08/opinion/vivek-ramaswamy.html

Title: A LinkedIn Post Come to Life:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New Yor k, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 9, 2023

column: Farhad Manjoo

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2862589902

Document URL: https://www.proq uest.com/newspapers/linkedin-post-come-life/docview/2862589902/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Job Hopping Looks Bad on the Résumé. Gen Z Doesn't Care.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Zimmerman, Eilene

Publication info: Zimmerman, Eilene. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/job-hopping-looks-bad-on-résumé-gen-z-doesnt-care/docview/2860256014/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Repeatedly switching jobs has long been a red flag for employers. That's changing as Gen Z and younger Millennials embrace the upsides, but downsides persist.
Pranav Ravikumar has held three jobs since college, and he's only 24. One month after graduating in December 2020, he cycled through two rotations of a management training program at the pharmaceutical company Abbott. Mr. Ravikumar became an e-commerce analyst, but he wanted the kind of faster-paced work found at consulting firms and start-ups. The job at Abbott also required him to move to Columbus, Ohio, far from family and friends in Washington, D.C.
In October 2021, Mr. Ravikumar left Abbott for a remote job with Dragonfly, a start-up that acquires and develops small e-commerce businesses, and moved back to Washington. A few months in, he spoke to his manager about becoming more involved with strategy, but nothing changed. So a year later, Mr. Ravikumar began job hunting. This February, he started a job in product marketing at Alma, a membership network that helps mental health care providers build their practices.
For Mr. Ravikumar, this kind of rapid job hopping has been a positive experience. "I've almost doubled what my starting salary was at Abbott, and that's important to me," he said. "I really wanted the flexibility of remote work and I'd be hard-pressed now to give that up. And I've gotten a lot of professional experience across industries super quickly."
Job hopping to increase salary and skills early in a career -- historically, a red flag for employers -- is not new. However, it appears to be increasingly common: 22.3 percent of workers ages 20 and older spent a year or less at their jobs in 2022, the highest percentage with a tenure that short since 2006, according to data from the Employee Benefit Research Institute, an independent nonprofit. About 33 percent spent two years or less at their jobs.
But many Gen Z workers, and younger Millennials, aren't worried. Seventy-four percent of 18- to 26-year-olds and 62 percent of 27- to 42-year-olds were searching for a new job or planned to search in the next six months, according to a survey of U.S. employees conducted in May by Robert Half, a human resources consultancy.
Dawn Fay, operational president for talent solutions and business consulting at Robert Half, said in an email that the survey also asked hiring managers their top concerns when evaluating a candidate's résumé: 77 percent named job hopping.
Jeff Hyman, chief executive of Recruit Rockstars, a recruitment firm in Chicago, described job hopping as a "huge headache" for employers. When promising employees leave prematurely, others may wonder why, or follow suit, he said. "Human resources executives keep hoping it will improve, but it just seems to get worse by the month."
After just eight months at her corporate job in Pittsburgh, Erin Confortini, 24, was being recruited for similar jobs paying $ 20,000 a year more, but declined to pursue them, feeling the salary wasn't worth the risks of changing course. Ms. Confortini, who now earns additional income as a personal finance influencer on TikTok with over 246,000 followers, posted about her decision not to job hop. (As it turned out, she left the corporate job a year later to work at a start-up.) The post received more than 450 comments, with most advising her to follow the money rather than be loyal to a company ("fear should not drive decisions," read one).
While she understands this position, Ms. Confortini said, "I also think you need to consider what that will look like on your résumé."
Many recruiters agree.
Mr. Hyman, the recruiter, said although job hopping carries less of a stigma in the start-up community, traditional employers still see those candidates as risky. "Employers start to question the candidate's decision-making ability and judgment," he said. Hiring managers also complain that it's difficult to assess a person's performance in a job that lasted less than two years, he added.
To some extent, the trend may be a response to what younger employees perceive as corporations' unyielding focus on the bottom line. One reason for the prevalence of job hopping is the ongoing erosion of the employer-employee social contract, said Jessica Kriegel, a chief scientist at Culture Partners, a business consultancy focused on workplace culture. This is partly because of repeated, recession-related layoffs that now include pre-emptive layoffs in anticipation of a downturn, she said.
"Employees are looking at that and feel they have already lost what they thought they were getting, which was job security," Ms. Kriegel said.
This, in turn, has led many Gen Z workers to eschew company loyalty in favor of career development -- and, potentially, risk-taking. When Jonathan Javier, 28, started his first job as an operations specialist at Snapchat, the pay was low. But he had set his sights on the tech industry and felt grateful to be there. Eight months later, however, his role was outsourced to a contractor. Through LinkedIn, Mr. Javier connected with a recruiter at Google and was hired as an operations analyst; after a year, he made the move to sales trainer.
Soon after, Mr. Javier was tapped by another recruiter, offering a spot as an operations analyst at Cisco. "It was a higher-level job that pushed my salary to over six figures," he recalled. He took it, leaving Google after 18 months. During his tenure at Google, Mr. Javier had started a side hustle, Wonsulting, a career coaching business targeting young job seekers from marginalized backgrounds. When he was laid off a year after joining Cisco because of pandemic staffing cuts, Mr. Javier opted for entrepreneurship instead of another job search, and dived into Wonsulting full time.
That's three companies (and four roles) in just over three years, ending with a job of his own making.
Working for a corporation, Mr. Javier said, always made him feel "like a number," someone who could be dismissed at any time. Now, as his own boss, that anxiety is gone. And although the failure rate for start-ups is high, Mr. Javier said he isn't concerned.
"There's always a way back into corporate America if I want that."
Photograph Jonathan Javier, 28, in Richmond, British Columbia. Before starting a career coaching business, he worked at three companies in just over three years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACKIE DIVES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Pranav Ravikumar, 24, in Arlington, Va. He sees job changes as a positive: "I've gotten a lot of professional experience across industries super quickly." (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHURAN HUANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Entrepreneurs; Recruitment; Millennials; Careers; Employers; Generation Z; Startups; Personal profiles; Layoffs; Employees; Employment; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs Recruitment Careers Employers Startups Layoffs Employees Employment Executives

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/09/business/job-hopping-young-workers-gen-z.html

Title: Job Hopping Looks Bad on the Résumé. Gen Z Doesn't Care.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 4, 2023

column: How Work Is Changing

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2860256014

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/job-hopping-looks-bad-on-résumé-gen-z-doesnt-care/docview/2860256014/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A California Land Mystery Is Solved. Now the Political Fight Begins.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Dougherty, Conor; Hubler, Shawn

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor; Hubler, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-land-mystery-is-solved-now-political/docview/2858547709/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tech industry investors spent roughly $ 900 million buying land to build a dream city in a rural part of the Bay Area. It could be years, though, before they can do anything with it.
Jan Sramek was 15 years old the first time he tried to get a government to do something he wanted. Back then, he was an internet- and science fiction-obsessed teenager growing up in Drevohostice, in the Czech Republic.
The problem was his town of 1,400 people had only dial-up internet service. He persuaded the local government to pay an internet service provider to bring the town a broadband connection. He was even paid a commission for it, Mr. Sramek wrote in "Racing Towards Excellence," a sort of self-help book for ambitious young adults he co-wrote in 2009.
The next campaign for Mr. Sramek could be more profitable. It could also be longer, harder and, in all likelihood, nastier.
The revelation last week that Mr. Sramek is leading a group of Silicon Valley moguls in an audacious plan to build a new city on a rolling patch of farms and windmills in Northern California was the unofficial beginning of what promises to become a protracted and expensive political campaign.
In a state where land politics are so difficult it can take years to build a duplex, it could be a decade of process before a shovel is even lifted for the project.
That kind of timeline will most likely test the patience of investors -- including the venture capitalists Michael Moritz, Marc Andreessen and Chris Dixon, as well as Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, venture capitalist and Democratic donor, and Laurene Powell Jobs, founder of the Emerson Collective -- who are used to the fast and lightly regulated world of technology.
First up, in all likelihood, is an election. Solano County has a longstanding slow-growth ordinance that county voters would probably have to override before any major building could begin.
After that comes a gantlet of environmental rules, inevitable lawsuits and potential tussles with the state's Air Resources Board, the Water Resources Control Board, Public Utilities Commission and Department of Transportation -- not to mention the local planning commission and board of supervisors who oversee land use in Solano County.
Some experienced developers say the project's chances are so remote that they will be stunned if it comes to fruition. "I hope they succeed," said Mark Friedman, a longtime real estate developer in Sacramento, "but this just seems like a lot of tech guys with a lot of money and a ton of hubris diving into another business that they can't possibly understand."
Mr. Sramek declined to comment on Monday, and a spokesman referred to an earlier statement from the project's financial backers: "We are excited to start working with Solano County residents and elected officials, as well as with Travis Air Force Base."
Over the past five years, the group has used a company called Flannery Associates to spend some $ 900 million buying tens of thousands of acres of agricultural land throughout Solano County, on the northern eastern edge of the San Francisco Bay Area. The purchase of so much land by a company whose business and intentions were unclear had stoked fear throughout the region and prompted two members of Congress to start federal investigations.
That nobody in the company tried to assuage those fears -- most likely because they were worried that revealing themselves would increase the price of land -- has created a long line of annoyed elected officials.
"We got the F.B.I. and Treasury involved," John Garamendi, a Democrat and congressman from the area, said in a recent interview. Even though representatives from Flannery had reached out to his office for a meeting, he said, he didn't know who they were or what they were doing until The New York Times revealed it to him last week.
Now Flannery is scrambling to move from stealth to charm mode. It has hired political consultants and approached supervisors, the governor's office and members of Congress. Eventually, the group is likely to appeal to voters with a full-blown political campaign focused on economic development.
Though it's solidly within the Bay Area, Solano is the poorest county in the region. The household income of $ 87,770 is about two-thirds of the $ 141,562 median income in Santa Clara County, the heart of Silicon Valley. It is also a geographic jumble that includes parched farmland and Travis Air Force Base, the U.S. military's busiest airport and gateway to the Pacific, along with cities like Vallejo, a blue-collar city that has become a refuge for construction and service workers priced out of the inner Bay Area.
Flannery's purchases are concentrated in the county's undeveloped eastern half and consist of a checkerboard of plots. Some portion of that land appears to be slated for the hypothetical city, whose precise location isn't yet clear. The rest could be used as political chips to create conservation programs, green energy projects and recreational amenities in an attempt to curry favor with politicians and voters.
Whatever campaign Flannery ends up running is also likely to involve promising jobs to voters in cities like Vallejo and Fairfield in exchange for allowing it to build on barely populated farms some 45 minutes away.
On Sunday in Rio Vista, a town of 10,000 people along the Sacramento River, residents were still absorbing the prospect of billionaires turning a stretch of open fields into a new city. Many were relieved to know the identity of the area's mystery land buyer but were also fearful about the proposal's potential impact.
"There's not a lot of people," said Ashley Morrill, 40, who works at a sports shooting range in an unincorporated community called Birds Landing. "There's a lot of windmills. It's out in the middle of nowhere. You can't get public utilities out here. There's no public water or sewer."
Some in the area were still reeling from the secrecy that had veiled the land sales. Theories had ranged from wind farms to a new Disneyland to an imagined plot involving Chinese intelligence and a new port.
"A real estate agent came to my house on Christmas Day in 2018 with an offer to buy my property," said John Sweeney, who lives in Denverton, an unincorporated community next to Travis Air Force Base. "At the time, land out here was selling for under $ 2,000 acre, and they offered $ 10,000 an acre."
Mr. Sweeney said he didn't sell, but he passed the offer to his father-in-law, who did. After the deal closed, he started tracking Flannery's purchases on Facebook.
Now residents have new questions: How does a city spring to life from a single property owner? Will the proposal raise adjacent land prices? Will it lead to gentrification in what is now a pastoral town?
Flannery's pitch will have to answer those and even more pressing concerns, according to political consultants in the state. The project's proximity to Travis Air Force Base is likely to prompt federal pushback. Powerful labor groups will have to be persuaded that the plan will adequately benefit unions. Environmental groups have already begun coming out against it, arguing that housing should be built closer to population centers.
David Townsend, a Democratic consultant with decades of experience in land use issues in Northern California, said local opposition would also most likely be significant in an agricultural county where many longtime residents had moved to escape development and traffic.
"What happens in these things is, people show up in red T-shirts yelling that a bunch of rich guys who don't even live here want to put 20,000 more cars on our roads, and what do we get for it? A couple of parks?" Mr. Townsend said, adding: "Something like this could take years and years."
Holly Secon contributed reporting.
Photograph A group of tech investors has been acquiring land in a mostly rural part of Solano County in California. One major resident is Travis Air Force Base, the U.S. military's busiest airport and gateway to the Pacific. The plan to erect a new city appears to face numerous obstacles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Agriculture; Politics; Internet service providers; Airports; Windmills; Public utilities; Political campaigns; Voters; Congressional elections; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Airports Public utilities

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; Solano County California; Northern California; California

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Travis Air Force Base; NAICS: 928110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/29/business/economy/california-land-solano-county.html

Title: A California Land Mystery Is Solved. Now the Political Fight Begins.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2858547709

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-land-mystery-is-solved-now-political/docview/2858547709/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A California Land Mystery Is Solved. Now the Political Fight Begins.

Author: Dougherty, Conor; Hubler, Shawn

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor; Hubler, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-land-mystery-is-solved-now-political/docview/2863306985/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Jan Sramek was 15 years old the first time he tried to get a government to do something he wanted. Back then, he was an internet- and science fiction-obsessed teenager growing up in Drevohostice, in the Czech Republic.
The problem was his town of 1,400 people had only dial-up internet service. He persuaded the local government to pay an internet service provider to bring the town a broadband connection. He was even paid a commission for it, Sramek wrote in “Racing Towards Excellence,” a sort of self-help book for ambitious young adults he co-wrote in 2009.
The next campaign for Sramek could be more profitable. It could also be longer, harder and, in all likelihood, nastier.
The revelation last week that Sramek is leading a group of Silicon Valley moguls in an audacious plan to build a new city on a rolling patch of farms and windmills in Northern California was the unofficial beginning of what promises to become a protracted and expensive political campaign.
In a state where land politics are so difficult it can take years to build a duplex, it could be a decade of process before a shovel is even lifted for the project.
That kind of timeline will most likely test the patience of investors — including venture capitalists Michael Moritz, Marc Andreessen and Chris Dixon, as well as Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, venture capitalist and Democratic donor, and Laurene Powell Jobs, founder of the Emerson Collective — who are used to the fast and lightly regulated world of technology.
First up, in all likelihood, is an election. Solano County has a long-standing slow-growth ordinance that county voters would probably have to override before any major building could begin.
After that comes a gantlet of environmental rules, inevitable lawsuits and potential tussles with the state’s Air Resources Board, the Water Resources Control Board, Public Utilities Commission and Department of Transportation — not to mention the local planning commission and board of supervisors who oversee land use in Solano County.
Some experienced developers say the project’s chances are so remote that they will be stunned if it comes to fruition. “I hope they succeed,” said Mark Friedman, a longtime real estate developer in Sacramento, “but this just seems like a lot of tech guys with a lot of money and a ton of hubris diving into another business that they can’t possibly understand.”
Sramek declined to comment Monday, and a spokesperson referred to an earlier statement from the project’s financial backers: “We are excited to start working with Solano County residents and elected officials, as well as with Travis Air Force Base.”
Over the past five years, the group has used a company called Flannery Associates to spend some $900 million buying tens of thousands of acres of agricultural land throughout Solano County, on the northern eastern edge of the San Francisco Bay Area. The purchase of so much land by a company whose business and intentions were unclear had stoked fear throughout the region and prompted two members of Congress to start federal investigations.
That nobody in the company tried to assuage those fears — most likely because they were worried that revealing themselves would increase the price of land — has created a long line of annoyed elected officials.
“We got the FBI and Treasury involved,” Rep. John Garamendi, a Democrat from the area, said in a recent interview. Even though representatives from Flannery had reached out to his office for a meeting, he said, he didn’t know who they were or what they were doing until The New York Times revealed it to him last week.
Now Flannery is scrambling to move from stealth to charm mode. It has hired political consultants and approached supervisors, the governor’s office and members of Congress. Eventually, the group is likely to appeal to voters with a full-blown political campaign focused on economic development.
Though it’s solidly within the Bay Area, Solano is the poorest county in the region. The household income of $87,770 is about two-thirds of the $141,562 median income in Santa Clara County, the heart of Silicon Valley. It is also a geographic jumble that includes parched farmland and Travis Air Force Base, the U.S. military’s busiest airport and gateway to the Pacific, along with cities such as Vallejo, a blue-collar area that has become a refuge for construction and service workers priced out of the inner Bay Area.
Flannery’s purchases are concentrated in the county’s undeveloped eastern half and consist of a checkerboard of plots. Some portion of that land appears to be slated for the hypothetical city, whose precise location isn’t yet clear. The rest could be used as political chips to create conservation programs, green energy projects and recreational amenities in an attempt to curry favor with politicians and voters.
Whatever campaign Flannery ends up running is also likely to involve promising jobs to voters in cities such as Vallejo and Fairfield in exchange for allowing it to build on barely populated farms some 45 minutes away.
On Sunday in Rio Vista, a town of 10,000 people along the Sacramento River, residents were still absorbing the prospect of billionaires turning a stretch of open fields into a new city. Many were relieved to know the identity of the area’s mystery land buyer but were also fearful about the proposal’s potential impact.
“There’s not a lot of people,” said Ashley Morrill, 40, who works at a sports shooting range in an unincorporated community called Birds Landing. “There’s a lot of windmills. It’s out in the middle of nowhere. You can’t get public utilities out here. There’s no public water or sewer.”
Some in the area were still reeling from the secrecy that had veiled the land sales. Theories had ranged from wind farms to a new Disneyland to an imagined plot involving Chinese intelligence and a new port.
“A real estate agent came to my house on Christmas Day in 2018 with an offer to buy my property,” said John Sweeney, who lives in Denverton, an unincorporated community next to Travis Air Force Base. “At the time, land out here was selling for under $2,000 acre, and they offered $10,000 an acre.”
Sweeney said he didn’t sell, but he passed the offer to his father-in-law, who did. After the deal closed, he started tracking Flannery’s purchases on Facebook.
Now residents have new questions: How does a city spring to life from a single property owner? Will the proposal raise adjacent land prices? Will it lead to gentrification in what is now a pastoral town?
Flannery’s pitch will have to answer those and even more pressing concerns, according to political consultants in the state. The project’s proximity to Travis Air Force Base is likely to prompt federal pushback. Powerful labor groups will have to be convinced that the plan will adequately benefit unions. Environmental groups have begun coming out against it, arguing that housing should be built closer to population centers.
David Townsend, a Democratic consultant with decades of experience in land use issues in Northern California, said local opposition would also most likely be significant in an agricultural county where many longtime residents had moved to escape development and traffic.
“What happens in these things is, people show up in red T-shirts yelling that a bunch of rich guys who don’t even live here want to put 20,000 more cars on our roads, and what do we get for it? A couple of parks?” Townsend said, adding: “Something like this could take years and years.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Agriculture; Politics; Internet service providers; Windmills; Public utilities; Political campaigns; Voters; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Public utilities

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; Solano County California; Northern California

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Travis Air Force Base; NAICS: 928110

Identifier / keyword: Gentrification; San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Fairfield University; Wind Power; Computers And The Internet; Law And Legislation; Area Planning And Renewal; Real Estate (Commercial); Disneyland (Anaheim, Calif); Conservation Of Resources; Sacramento (Calif); Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Military Bases And Installations; Venture Capital; United States; Agriculture And Farming; Alternative And Renewable Energy; Linkedin Corporation; Santa Clara County (Calif); Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Politics And Government; Sacramento River (Calif); California; Travis Air Force Base (Calif); Czech Republic; Decisions And Verdicts; Moritz, Michael Jonathan; Facebook Inc; Democratic Party; Transportation Department (Calif); San Francisco (Calif); Emerson Collective; Vallejo (Calif); Labor And Jobs; Andreessen, Marc L; Silicon Valley (Calif); Land Use Policies; Windmills; Business; Solano County (Calif); Transportation Department (Us)

Title: A California Land Mystery Is Solved. Now the Political Fight Begins.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-29T22:33:17Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2863306985

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-land-mystery-is-solved-now-political/docview/2863306985/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Alabama, White Tide Rushes On: [Op-Ed]

Author: Tressie Mcmillan Cottom

Publication info: Tressie Mcmillan Cottom. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alabama-white-tide-rushes-on/docview/2857512251/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sorority rush is a tradition at many colleges. But in the South, rush inspires the same passionate zeal as collegiate football. Thanks to TikTok, the University of Alabama's incarnation of that tradition -- peak neo-antebellum white Southern culture on display -- is now a global phenomenon. Since it entered the zeitgeist in 2021, millions of people have followed Bama Rush, as if they're royal watching through Mason-jar-tinted glasses.
When a small phalanx of white coeds in Tuscaloosa self-organizes under the Bama Rush banner to promote their sorority, they are battling for ritual supremacy. The current sorority members choose coordinated outfits like crop tops and tennis skorts for synchronized dance routines to promote their chapters on TikTok. There is a lot of hair in these videos -- standardized for length and blond in ratios impossible without chemical intervention; it swings exuberantly, signaling good health and traditional femininity. Their robotic dancing to hip-hop songs showcases gymnastic athleticism instead of looser routines made for the club. They keep time, but even the fact that they aren't clapping on the one and three seems intentional -- being cute rather than sexy protects them from the dreaded label "trashy." Walking that fine line without mussing their hair is part of their popular appeal.
The rushees who wish to join the dancers' ranks give daily reports, with noticeable twang, on what they are wearing. Their Southern accents are the linguistic equivalent of pointing a ring light at their shiny hair and tasteful makeup. The sororities purport to make these videos to attract the highest quality rushees. But they have found a wider audience.
For a mainstream culture struggling to adapt to the ways that gender is exploding all around them, that accent is seductive. It says these are ideal women from a regional culture that values traditional gender norms -- and people cannot get enough of it.
As for myself, I'm proud to say that my TikTok algorithm has not delivered me any Bama Rush videos. All my exposure has been secondhand. My friends who love true-crime podcasts were excited for the documentary from Rachel Fleit, "Bama Rush," that was released on Max earlier this year. My feminist academic friends forwarded me Bama Rush memes during a recent faculty dinner to dissect the kitschiness of sorority microcelebrities. Anne Helen Petersen, a culture writer, has been obsessively unpacking Bama Rush 2023 "like we're a 400-level Sociology class," as she recently put it on Instagram.
A lot of my worlds are collapsing into the Bama Rush phenomenon, yet I am in Bama Rush's blind spot.
I assume I don't get Bama Rush videos on my social media feeds for the same reason that I would not have been an ideal Bama Rush candidate when I was a coed. Bama Rush is very, very white, and my algorithms are programmed for me -- someone who is not. Fleit's documentary touches on the inherited culture and code of conduct that filters for the "right" type of young woman -- thin, able-bodied, athletic and, yes, in most cases, white -- to rush at the University of Alabama.
Seeing that culture rendered so explicitly primes the progressive impulse to call for diversity. It feels like the response to the vague unsettled feeling that something is wrong with Bama Rush. It could be the hair or the matching outfits or the accents. But it is clear from watching RushTok that there are a lot of young white women involved. We fixate on that and haphazardly reach for the diversity hammer in our progressive tool kit, without thinking through why that lack of diversity exists in the first place -- or what it tells us about the American South.
Despite alumni and cultural pressure to maintain tradition, there have been a handful of attempts to integrate sorority rush at the University of Alabama over the last three or so decades. This is an example of the Faulkner adage that the past is never dead. When it comes to our willful collective amnesia about racism, the past isn't even past. Most recently, the university pushed to integrate the Greek system in 2013, the year the U.S. Department of Justice inquired about allegations of race discrimination in Alabama's rush process. Still, in 2022, almost 85 percent of the sorority members in the Alabama Panhellenic Association, comprising most of the university's sororities, were white, a percentage disproportionate to the racial makeup of the university and the state.
Consider the university's failed attempts to integrate rush in concert with its comfort with the social media blitz. While there is no definitive proof of causation between the Bama Rush popularity and the University of Alabama's fiscal health, the university is coming off record enrollment in 2022, even as the general higher education climate in the United States is being roiled by crises.
Alabama's cousins in Florida are dealing with a hostile political leader and takeover of their curriculum. West Virginia is facing fiscal insolvency of its flagship public university. The general public's faith in higher education is waning, whatever the individual's politics. For too much of the public, higher education's complex problems are reduced to culture wars about diversity, gender studies or critical race theory, which have become the brands of many elite Northeastern schools. In this climate, these sororities' annual viral juggernaut is counterprogramming to the Northeastern elite university brand. The Bama version is wholesome, nonthreatening, traditional femininity in Lululemon athleisure. For free. Welcome to Emotional Labor 101, Bama Rush ladies. You already aced it.
These young women's world -- which exists outside the frame of a TikTok video -- deserves to be taken seriously. Their emotional labor moves a lot of capital. And their sorority system is a legitimate status culture, just like fraternities and sports leagues, with a clear hierarchy; the top dogs get more privileges and honor than the lesser-ranked sororities. To defend their position, sororities have a code of conduct to keep its sisters -- and the wannabes -- in line. How to talk, how to dress, how to act, and most important of all, how to aspire. The code is so elaborate that aspiring pledges can hire Rush coaches to learn exactly what it takes to be the right kind of woman. It boils down to performing hyperfemininity and settling for referent or secondhand authority while deferring to masculine power. The cute dances and OOTDs also reveal how complicated it is for today's young women to live feminist lives.
Rushees are cautioned not to speak of boys during rush, but that is a silence that screams. As becomes clear over the course of Fleit's documentary, what men might want from these young women shapes their beauty standards and obsession with weight and career plans and outfits and friend groups. It determines the sorority's rank, the value of its members and its ultimate power to influence the campus culture as future alumnae. The Deep South's sorority culture gets its power from the rewards that come from compliance. You get cool campus housing, cool friends, study buddies, social invitations, a defined dating pool and maybe a little social media fame.
The rewards don't stop at the edge of campus. Sorority members anywhere come with networks that can grease the machinery of mobility. But in the Deep South, of which Alabama is a cultural and geographic linchpin, the sorority system carries greater influence. It gets you close to the women who are close to the men who tend to dominate the state's network power.
At Alabama, that power is most visible in the form of "the Machine," the university's not-so-secret society that extends the power of the many predominantly white fraternities and sororities it represents. The Machine is like the mob with training wheels, teaching the fine art of political influence through campus elections and grooming university student leaders for politics and industry.
Greek life and the Machine do the same work that supper clubs and social clubs and secret societies do at elite universities and boarding schools in every privileged enclave across the country. When you think of fraternities and sororities as the gateway to a seat at the table that manages the social reproduction of the entire region's cultural, economic and political elite, rushing is serious business.
Young women know that. For 20 years, they have outpaced their male peers in educational attainment and achievement. Today's traditional-aged female college student could be inheriting up to four generations of gendered expertise on navigating higher education -- the bureaucracy of achievement.
Progressives and conservatives have at least one thing in common. For decades, both sides have told young people that going to college overdetermines their life's trajectory; they must amass all the power and wealth they can, in one shot, or their lives will be abject failures. For women, there is the added burden of amassing all the economic capital possible while also earning all the social capital to be desired.
Joining an elite sorority solves multiple problems at one time. It gives you a college cohort, seeds your LinkedIn connections and grooms you into the ideal partner for the men who are joining the fraternities.
Elite status cultures invest a lot in marriages, and that is no different in the South. For all that the sorority sisters talk about bonding and lifelong friends, the power of these sororities is not sisterhood. It's the brotherhood that desires it. Bama Rush codifies the many incentives behind marrying power and turns them into a long audition to become a handmaiden to patriarchal privilege. Becoming pretty enough to sit at the right hand of machines that chew up history and the future is not my idea of getting ahead.
One biracial rushee in Fleit's documentary discovers the true qualifications to this culture when joining the sorority does not get her the same male attention as her white sisters. Even if you could integrate Bama the brand, you cannot integrate Bama the social reproduction machine.
The impulse to diversify Bama Rush got me thinking about the book "Elite Capture." Author Olúfẹ́mi O. Táíwò's thesis is that radical terms d'art like "identity politics" and "racial capitalism" have lost their radical potential. They are victims of elite capture, the process by which the nominal winners of our system strip the terms down to a brand. In the case of "integrating" Bama Rush, no one is talking about the radical roots of integration. They don't even mean integration as an accommodationist principle. They mean the neoliberal branding of integration as cosmetic diversity. That would look like adding a few plus-size bodies, a racially ambiguous but nonwhite young woman, and some dark hair here and there and calling that fixing Bama Rush for our new sensibilities.
We can quibble about whether integration ever had a hope of being radically transformative, but it was more radical in practice than its mealy-mouthed descendants "diversity" and "inclusion." But reaching for the diversity canard to fix our discomfort with Bama Rush content is an overreach. This is Alabama. The University of Alabama. This is the university where George Wallace infamously stood in the classroom doorway on the first day of class in 1963 to block Vivian Malone and James A. Hood from matriculating. You look at the images from that period of massive resistance to school integration, at the crowd shots of young white men and women chanting at Vivian and James who are flanked by the National Guard as they broker integration with their lives. The idea that joining a sorority is integration feels hollow, but especially at a place where integration once meant so much.
It might be reasonable to want everyone to have access to what Bama Rush promises. But the sorority does not have the power to confer it, not really. It can only brand it and, if it works really hard and looks pretty while doing it, can grow up to marry it. And I ask, why would anyone want to integrate that?
Sometimes the proper place for something is the past, and the thing just does not yet know it.
Tressie McMillan Cottom (@tressiemcphd) is an associate professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Information and Library Science, the author of "Thick: And Other Essays" and a 2020 MacArthur fellow.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY COSBY JR./IMAGN) This article appeared in print on page SR8.

ERIC Subject: Sororities; Educational Attainment; Algorithms

Subject: Hair; Young adults; Higher education; Fraternities & sororities; Culture; Politics; College campuses; Gender; Social networks; Femininity; Traditions; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Women

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Alabama

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: University of Alabama; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/22/opinion/bama-rush-tiktok-race.html

Title: In Alabama, White Tide Rushes On:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 27, 2023

column: Tressie Mcmillan Cottom

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2857512251

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alabama-white-tide-rushes-on/docview/2857512251/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 27, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tech Elite Bankroll Mystery Plan to Construct City From Scratch: [National Desk]

Author: Dougherty, Conor; Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor; Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-elite-bankroll-mystery-plan-construct-city/docview/2857202561/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A mysterious company has spent $ 800 million in an effort to buy thousands of acres of San Francisco Bay Area land. The people behind the deals are said to be a who's who of the tech industry.
In 2017, Michael Moritz, the billionaire venture capitalist, sent a note to a potential investor about what he described as an unusual opportunity: a chance to invest in the creation of a new California city.
The site was in a corner of the San Francisco Bay Area where land was cheap. Mr. Moritz and others had dreams of transforming tens of thousands of acres into a bustling metropolis that, according to the pitch, could generate thousands of jobs and be as walkable as Paris or the West Village in New York.
He painted a kind of urban blank slate where everything from design to construction methods and new forms of governance could be rethought. And it would all be a short distance from San Francisco and Silicon Valley. "Let me know if this tickles your fancy," he said in the note, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times.
Since then, a company called Flannery Associates has been buying large plots of land in a largely agricultural region 60 miles northeast of San Francisco. The company, which has little information public about its operations, has committed more than $ 800 million to secure thousands of acres of farmland, court documents show. One parcel after another, Flannery made offers to every landowner for miles, paying several times the market rate, whether the land had been listed for sale or not.
The purchases by a company that no one in the area had heard of and whose business was a mystery have become the subject of heavy speculation and developing news stories, rattling landowners, local supervisors, the nearby Air Force base and members of Congress. Was Disney buying it for a new theme park? Could the purchases be linked to China? A deepwater port?
Flannery is the brainchild of Jan Sramek, 36, a former Goldman Sachs trader who has quietly courted some of the tech industry's biggest names as investors, according to the pitch and people familiar with the matter. The company's ambitions expand on the 2017 pitch: Take an arid patch of brown hills cut by a two-lane highway between suburbs and rural land, and convert into it into a community with tens of thousands of residents, clean energy, public transportation and dense urban life.
The company's investors, whose identities have not been previously reported, are a who's who of Silicon Valley, according to three people who were not authorized to speak publicly about the plans.
They include Mr. Moritz; Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, venture capitalist and Democratic donor; Marc Andreessen and Chris Dixon, investors at the Andreessen Horowitz venture capital firm; Patrick and John Collison, the sibling co-founders of the payments company Stripe; Laurene Powell Jobs, founder of the Emerson Collective; and Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross, entrepreneurs turned investors. Andreessen Horowitz is also a backer. It was unclear how much each had invested.
Brian Brokaw, a representative for the investor group, said in a statement that the group was made up of "Californians who believe that Solano County's and California's best days are ahead." He said the group planned to start working with Solano County residents and elected officials, as well as with Travis Air Force Base, next week.
In California, housing has long been an intractable problem, and Silicon Valley's moguls have long been frustrated with the Bay Area's real estate shortage, and the difficulty of building in California generally, as their work forces have exploded. Companies like Google have clashed with cities like Palo Alto and Mountain View over expanding their headquarters, while their executives have funded pro-development politicians and the "Yes in my backyard" activists who have pushed for looser development and zoning laws in hopes of making it easier to build faster and taller.
The practical need for more space has at times morphed into lofty visions of building entire cities from scratch. Several years ago, Y Combinator, the start-up incubator, announced an initiative with dreams of turning empty land into a new economy and society. Years before that, Peter Thiel, the PayPal co-founder and billionaire Facebook investor, invested in the Seasteading Institute, an attempt to build a new society on lily pad-like structures in the law-and-tax-free open ocean.
But while these ideas have garnered lots of attention and curiosity -- lauded in some corners for vision and derided in others for hubris -- they have been little more than talk.
As Flannery began seeking property, it bought so much land, so fast, that it spooked locals who had no idea who the buyer was or the plans it had in mind. Catherine Moy, the mayor of Fairfield, Calif., started posting about the project on Facebook several years ago after she got a call from a farmer about some mystery buyer making offers throughout the county. In an interview, Ms. Moy said she had gone to the county assessor's office and found that Flannery had purchased tens of thousands of acres.
John Garamendi, a Democrat who along with Mike Thompson, another Democrat, represents the surrounding region in Congress, said he had been trying to figure out the company's identity for four years.
"I couldn't find out anything," he said.
On Friday, he said that had suddenly changed. This week representatives for Flannery reached out to him and other elected officials requesting meetings about their plans. That meeting is now being scheduled, he said.
"This is their first effort, ever, to talk to any of the local representatives, myself included," he said.
The land that Flannery has been purchasing is not zoned for residential use, and even in his 2017 pitch, Mr. Moritz acknowledged that rezoning could "clearly be challenging" -- a nod to California's notoriously difficult and litigious development process.
To pull off the project, the company will almost certainly have to use the state's initiative system to get Solano County residents to vote on it. The hope is that voters will be enticed by promises of thousands of local jobs, increased tax revenue and investments in infrastructure like parks, a performing arts center, shopping, dining and a trade school.
The financial gains could be huge, Mr. Moritz said in the 2017 pitch. He estimated the return could be many times the initial investment just from the rezoning, and far more if and when they started building.
"If the plans materialize anywhere close to what is being contemplated, this should be a spectacular investment," Mr. Moritz wrote.
The Bay Area is among the country's most expensive regions, even after rent and home prices fell after the pandemic. Economists and housing experts have for decades blamed a longstanding housing shortage and California's inability to build enough to meet demand.
Mr. Moritz nodded to this in the email to the investor, arguing that "this effort should relieve some of the Silicon Valley pressures we all feel -- rising home prices, homelessness, congestion etc." He added that his group had secured some 1,400 acres for less than $ 5,000 per acre. The price per acre has since escalated, and the company's most recent purchases have neared $ 20,000 per acre, according to court documents and people familiar with the matter.
The purchases burst into public view this spring when lawyers for Flannery filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court, accusing landowners of colluding to inflate prices.
The group focused on Jepson Prairie and Montezuma Hills, an agricultural patch of eastern Solano County between the cities of Fairfield and Rio Vista, according to the lawsuit. This area is mostly unpopulated and covered with ranches, windmills and power lines.
In November 2018, the company sent offers to "most landowners in this area," the lawsuit said, and included incentives such as allowing sellers to retain income from wind turbines, as well as stay on the properties rent-free under long-term lease-back agreements. Over the five years, the company purchased some 140 properties from 400 owners, the lawsuit said.
This month, a lawyer representing landowners jointly filed a motion to dismiss the case. In July, three landowners said they had reached a potential settlement with Flannery. Other owners could not be reached for comment this week, or had declined to do so.
As the offers continued and prices escalated, landowners in Solano County started buzzing about who was buying so much land for so much money.
"They would come with an offer of four and five times over the market at the time," Ms. Moy said. "They were deals that they couldn't pass up."
Flannery's offers were creating multimillionaires across the county, but no one seemed to know what the mysterious company intended to do with land that now amounted to a large chunk of the entire county.
That changed last week, when residents started receiving texts and emails with a poll gauging their opinions on a number of questions. One asked them to rate the favorability of several names including "Joe Biden," "Donald Trump" and "Flannery Associates." Another question began with a description of a possible ballot initiative for a project that "would include a new city with tens of thousands of new homes, a large solar energy farm, orchards with over a million new trees, and over 10,000 acres of new parks and open space."
Ms. Moy cited poor infrastructure, including the two-lane highway bisecting the region that she said was already clogged by super-commuters driving to the edges of the Bay Area and beyond. The area is also prone to regular droughts and is at high risk for wildfires.
"It seems very pie in the sky," she said.
Sheelagh McNeill contributed research. Yiwen Lu contributed reporting.
Sheelagh McNeill contributed research. Yiwen Lu contributed reporting.
Photograph Michael Moritz, top, a billionaire venture capitalist, is behind Flannery Associates, a company that has spent $ 800 million in an effort to buy thousands of acres of San Francisco Bay Area land. John Garamendi, a Democrat who represents the area in Congress, said he had been trying to figure out what was going on for four years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX FLYNN/BLOOMBERG; RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS; JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Landowners; Housing prices; Venture capital; Land purchases; High tech industries

Business indexing term: Subject: Housing prices Venture capital High tech industries

Location: Silicon Valley-California; San Francisco Bay; California; New York; United States--US; San Francisco California; Solano County California

People: Moritz, Michael

Company / organization: Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Flannery Associates (California); NAICS: 531390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/25/business/land-purchases-solano-county.html

Title: Tech Elite Bankroll Mystery Plan to Construct City From Scratch:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 26, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857202561

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-elite-bankroll-mystery-plan-construct-city/docview/2857202561/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Silicon Valley Elite Who Want to Build a City From Scratch

Author: Dougherty, Conor; Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor; Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-elite-who-want-build-city-scratch/docview/2857150606/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In 2017, Michael Moritz, a billionaire venture capitalist, sent a note to a potential investor about what he described as an unusual opportunity: a chance to invest in the creation of a new California city.
The site was in a corner of the San Francisco Bay Area where land was cheap. Moritz and others had dreams of transforming tens of thousands of acres into a bustling metropolis that, according to the pitch, could generate thousands of jobs and be as walkable as Paris or the West Village in New York.
He painted a kind of urban blank slate where everything from design to construction methods and new forms of governance could be rethought. And it would all be a short distance from San Francisco and Silicon Valley. “Let me know if this tickles your fancy,” he said in the note, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times.
Since then, a company called Flannery Associates has been buying large plots of land in a largely agricultural region 60 miles northeast of San Francisco. The company, which has little information public about its operations, has committed more than $800 million to secure thousands of acres of farmland, court documents show. One parcel after another, Flannery made offers to every landowner for miles, paying several times the market rate, whether the land had been listed for sale or not.
The purchases by a company that no one in the area had heard of and whose business was a mystery have become the subject of heavy speculation and developing news stories, rattling landowners, local supervisors, the nearby Air Force base and members of Congress. Was Disney buying it for a new theme park? Could the purchases be linked to China? A deep-water port?
Flannery is the brainchild of Jan Sramek, 36, a former Goldman Sachs trader who has quietly courted some of the tech industry’s biggest names as investors, according to the pitch and people familiar with the matter. The company’s ambitions expand on the 2017 pitch: Take an arid patch of brown hills cut by a two-lane highway between suburbs and rural land, and convert it into a community with tens of thousands of residents, clean energy, public transportation and dense urban life.
The company’s investors, whose identities have not been previously reported, are a who’s who of Silicon Valley, according to three people who were not authorized to speak publicly about the plans. They include Moritz; Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, venture capitalist and Democratic donor; Marc Andreessen and Chris Dixon, investors at the Andreessen Horowitz venture capital firm; Patrick and John Collison, the sibling co-founders of payments company Stripe; Laurene Powell Jobs, founder of the Emerson Collective; and Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross, entrepreneurs-turned-investors. Andreessen Horowitz is also a backer. It was unclear how much each had invested.
Brian Brokaw, a representative for the investor group, said in a statement that the group was made up of “Californians who believe that Solano County’s and California’s best days are ahead.” He said the group planned to start working with Solano County residents and elected officials, as well as with Travis Air Force Base, next week.
In California, housing has long been an intractable problem, and Silicon Valley’s moguls have long been frustrated with the Bay Area’s real estate shortage, and the difficulty of building in California generally, as their workforces have exploded. Companies like Google have clashed with cities like Palo Alto and Mountain View over expanding their headquarters, while their executives have funded pro-development politicians and the “Yes in my backyard” activists who have pushed for looser development and zoning laws in hopes of making it easier to build faster and taller.
The practical need for more space has at times morphed into lofty visions of building entire cities from scratch. Several years ago, Y Combinator, a startup incubator, announced an initiative with dreams of turning empty land into a new economy and society. Years before that, Peter Thiel, the PayPal co-founder and billionaire Facebook investor, invested in the Seasteading Institute, an attempt to build a new society on lily padlike structures in the law-and-tax free open ocean.
But while these ideas have garnered lots of attention and curiosity — lauded in some corners for vision and derided in others for hubris — they have been little more than talk.
As Flannery began seeking property, it bought so much land, so fast, that it spooked locals who had no idea who the buyer was or the plans it had in mind. Catherine Moy, mayor of Fairfield, California, started posting about the project on Facebook several years ago after she got a call from a farmer about some mystery buyer making offers throughout the county. In an interview, Moy said she had gone to the county assessor’s office and found that Flannery had purchased tens of thousands of acres.
Rep. John Garamendi, D-Calif., who along with Mike Thompson, another Democrat, represents the surrounding region in Congress, said he had been trying to figure out the company’s identity for four years.
“I couldn’t find out anything,” he said.
On Friday, he said that had suddenly changed. This week, representatives for Flannery reached out to him and other elected officials requesting meetings about their plans. That meeting is now being scheduled, he said.
“This is their first effort, ever, to talk to any of the local representatives, myself included,” he said.
The land that Flannery has been purchasing is not zoned for residential use, and even in his 2017 pitch, Moritz acknowledged that rezoning could “clearly be challenging” — a nod to California’s notoriously difficult and litigious development process.
To pull off the project, the company will almost certainly have to use the state’s initiative system to get Solano County residents to vote on it. The hope is that voters will be enticed by promises of thousands of local jobs; increased tax revenue; and investments in infrastructure like parks, a performing arts center, shopping, dining and a trade school.
The financial gains could be huge, Moritz said in the 2017 pitch. He estimated the return could be many times the initial investment just from the rezoning, and far more if and when they started building.
“If the plans materialize anywhere close to what is being contemplated, this should be a spectacular investment,” Moritz wrote.
The Bay Area is among the country’s most expensive regions, even after rent and home prices fell after the pandemic. Economists and housing experts have for decades blamed a long-standing housing shortage and California’s inability to build enough to meet demand.
Moritz nodded to this in the email to the investor, arguing “this effort should relieve some of the Silicon Valley pressures we all feel — rising home prices, homelessness, congestion etc.” He added that his group had secured some 1,400 acres for less than $5,000 per acre. The price per acre has since escalated, and the company’s most recent purchases have neared $20,000 per acre, according to court documents and people familiar with the matter.
The purchases burst into public view this spring, when lawyers for Flannery filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court, accusing landowners of colluding to inflate prices.
The group focused on Jepson Prairie and Montezuma Hills, an agricultural patch of eastern Solano County between the cities of Fairfield and Rio Vista, according to the lawsuit. This area is mostly unpopulated and covered with ranches, windmills and power lines.
In November 2018, the company sent offers to “most landowners in this area,” the lawsuit said, and included incentives such as allowing sellers to retain income from wind turbines, as well as stay on the properties rent-free under long-term lease-back agreements. Over the five years, the company purchased some 140 properties from 400 owners, the lawsuit said.
This month, a lawyer representing landowners jointly filed a motion to dismiss the case. In July, three landowners said they had reached a potential settlement with Flannery. Other owners could not be reached for comment this week or had declined to do so.
As the offers continued and prices escalated, landowners in Solano County started buzzing about who was buying so much land for so much money.
“They would come with an offer of four and five times over the market at the time,” Moy said. “They were deals that they couldn’t pass up.”
Flannery’s offers were creating multimillionaires across the county, but no one seemed to know what the mysterious company intended to do with land that now amounted to a large chunk of the entire county.
That changed last week, when residents started receiving texts and emails with a poll gauging their opinions on a number of questions. One asked them to rate the favorability of several names including “Joe Biden,” “Donald Trump” and “Flannery Associates.” Another question began with a description of a possible ballot initiative for a project that “would include a new city with tens of thousands of new homes, a large solar energy farm, orchards with over a million new trees, and over 10,000 acres of new parks and open space.”
Moy cited poor infrastructure, including the two-lane highway bisecting the region that she said was already clogged by super-commuters driving to the edges of the Bay Area and beyond. The area is also prone to regular droughts and is at high risk for wildfires.
“It seems very pie in the sky,” she said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Landowners; Housing prices; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Housing prices Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; California; New York; United States--US; San Francisco California; Solano County California

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

Identifier /keyword: Military Bases And Installations; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Zoning; Real Estate (Commercial); Walt Disney Company; Palo Alto (Calif); Stripe Inc; Shortages; Livestock; Venture Capital; United States; Seasteading Institute; Agriculture And Farming; Alternative And Renewable Energy; United States Air Force; Linkedin Corporation; Careers And Professions; Corporations; Collison, John; Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Referendums; California; Andreessen Horowitz; Suits And Litigation (Civil); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Y Combinator; Thiel, Peter A; Google Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); United States Politics And Government; Fairfield University; Wildfires; Wind Power; Computers And The Internet; State Legislatures; Entrepreneurship; Dixon, Chris (1972 ); Law And Legislation; News And News Media; Moritz, Michael Jonathan; Facebook Inc; Democratic Party; West Village (Manhattan, Ny); Text Messaging; San Francisco (Calif); Polls And Public Opinion; Area Planning And Renewal; Stocks And Bonds; United States Defense And Military Forces; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Andreessen, Marc L; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Silicon Valley (Calif); Trump, Donald J; Windmills; Solar Energy; Business; American Jobs Plan (2021); Solano County (Calif); United States Economy; Urban Areas; Start Ups; New York Times; Infrastructure (Public Works); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Mountain View (Calif); China; Paypal

Title: The Silicon Valley Elite Who Want to Build a City From Scratch

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 25, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-25T22:05:37Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857150606

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-elite-who-want-build-city-scratch/docview/2857150606/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Citizen Said to Be Held On Spy Charges in Moscow: [Live Blog Post]

Author: Gupta, Gaya

Publication info: Gupta, Gaya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-citizen-said-be-held-on-spy-charges-moscow/docview/2852310560/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: An American citizen originally from Russia has been taken into custody on charges of espionage by a Moscow court, according to Tass, the Russian state news agency.
The U.S. State Department said in a statement on Thursday evening that it was aware of reports of charges against a U.S. citizen in Russia.
The man, Gene Spektor, had been serving a 3.5-year sentence for a bribery conviction in 2021, Tass said. In that case, he was accused of having given, in 2015 and 2016, four million rubles -- or tens of thousands of dollars -- to Anastasia Alekseeva, the assistant of the former deputy prime minister of the Russian Federation, Arkady Dvorkovich, in the form of two holiday packages to Thailand and the Dominican Republic, according to Tass.
The original sentence was for four years, but, according to Interfax, the case was reheard and a new sentence of 3.5 years was handed down in 2022. The Tass report on Thursday did not make clear whether he was still in prison.
The Tass report gave no details regarding the nature of the espionage charges brought against Mr. Spektor.
Mr. Spektor was born and raised in Leningrad, now St. Petersburg, but later moved to the United States and became a U.S. citizen, according to Tass. Europe's patent office lists Mr. Spektor as one of four inventors of an antibody designed for cancer treatment use. He was the chairman of the board of directors of the Medpolymerprom Group of Companies, which specialized in drugs for cancer, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Edward Wong contributed reporting.
Edward Wong contributed reporting.
This article appeared in print on page A6.

Subject: Espionage

Location: Russia; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/live/2023/08/17/world/russia-ukraine-news/russian-media-reports-that-a-us-citizen-of-russian-origin-was-taken-into-custody-on-espionage-charges

Title: U.S. Citizen Said to Be Held On Spy Charges in Moscow:   [Live Blog Post ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852310560

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-citizen-said-be-held-on-spy-charges-moscow/docview/2852310560/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Zoom Meeting, Fake Names And an A.I. Demo Gone Awry: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/zoom-meeting-fake-names-i-demo-gone-awry/docview/2850989649/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A.I. start-ups are competing fiercely with one another as a race to get ahead in the technology intensifies.
Arthur AI, an artificial intelligence company in New York, received a message in April last year from a start-up called OneOneThree. Yan Fung, OneOneThree's head of technology, said he was interested in buying Arthur AI's technology and wanted a demonstration.
A week later, Arthur AI held a Zoom meeting with Mr. Fung to show him its software, according to emails and a video recording viewed by The New York Times. When Mr. Fung's colleague joined the call, the Arthur AI team realized something was off.
Mr. Fung said Karina Patel, OneOneThree's "main engineer," would dial in. But the name that flashed up in the Zoom call was Aparna Dhinakaran. An Arthur AI employee recognized the name as belonging to a founder of Arize AI, a rival start-up. "That's so strange -- I don't know how they could have possibly gotten the link," the Arthur AI employee said.
The new attendee quickly logged off, and Mr. Fung said he did not know Ms. Dhinakaran.
Arthur AI later surmised from online photos that Mr. Fung was an employee of ArizeAI named Dat Ngo, a person with knowledge of the situation said. OneOneThree appeared to be an inactive company of his.
The world of A.I. has become increasingly competitive as big tech companies and start-ups fight for customers, talent, funding and publicity. As a race over the technology heats up, large companies have raided universities for engineers while some of their top talent have left to start their own A.I. companies. In recent months, venture capitalists have also dueled ferociously to invest in A.I. start-ups by dangling large sums at soaring valuations.
The jockeying among A.I. start-ups is particularly intense. Only the ones that strike the right partnerships, land the biggest customers and generate the most buzz have a chance at riding the wave of hype to success.
When A.I. has attracted interest in the past, some companies have overpromised what they can do. A 2019 study by MMC, a London-based venture capital firm, found that 40 percent of 2,830 European start-ups that were classified as A.I. companies did not use A.I. technology for any material business reason.
"We know people would do crazy things to get ahead," said Olivier Toubia, a professor of behavioral economics and entrepreneurship at Columbia Business School. He said the tech industry's history of cutthroat competition, especially during times of frenzied investment and opportunity, went back to the late-1990s dot-com boom.
Many businesses track their rivals, and tech start-ups are known for using aggressive and unconventional tactics to grow as quickly as possible. But most draw a line at behavior like using a false identity or another company's name to pose as a customer.
Arthur AI's chief executive and an Arize AI spokesman declined to comment. Ms. Dhinakaran and Mr. Ngo did not respond to requests for comment.
Arize AI and Arthur AI both offer "observability" software, which helps companies monitor and solve problems with A.I. models. Customers would most likely compare the offerings and choose one.
Ms. Dhinakaran started Arize AI in 2020 in the San Francisco Bay Area with Jason Lopatecki, a former executive at TubeMogul, an advertising technology company. The start-up has raised $ 61 million from investors including Battery Ventures, Foundation Capital, TCV and Trinity Ventures, valuing it at $ 155 million, according to PitchBook, which tracks start-ups.
In a 2022 presentation, Arize AI listed Uber, eBay and Instacart as customers. The presentation ended with an A.I.-generated image of the company's hypothetical initial public offering.
Ms. Dhinakaran, 29, is active in the A.I. start-up scene. She speaks at industry events and writes a column about A.I. for Forbes, which has listed her as a 30 under 30 honoree, an award for successful young people in business. She promotes her experience as "an ML engineer and leader" at Uber, where she worked for three years, and at Apple and TubeMogul, where she was an intern.
In 2020, Ms. Dhinakaran competed in the reality television show "The Amazing Race" with her brother. They finished fifth.
"I'm passionate about making A.I. successful, fair and transparent," she wrote in a biography for the show. She added that she was a foodie who enjoyed trying new cuisines, with other favorite hobbies including tennis and "hosting board game nights that involve lying."
On LinkedIn, Mr. Ngo is listed as a founder of the OneOneThree Project, which was described as a research provider for autonomous vehicle networks, from June 2020 to July 2021. During that time, he worked as a data scientist at the software company Point Predictive and the tax consulting firm Alliantgroup, according to his LinkedIn profile. He joined Arize AI in January 2022.
Mr. Ngo registered a business called OneOneThree in Delaware in April 2021, a year before the Arthur AI meeting and eight months before he started working at Arize AI, according to corporate filings. OneOneThree had no website at the time of the meeting and lists two former employees, including Mr. Ngo, on LinkedIn. OneOneThree's registration has not been active since March, according to a filing and a representative for the Delaware secretary of state.
OneOneThree has also appeared in a customer contact list for WhyLabs, another A.I. start-up that competes with Arize, indicating that OneOneThree signed up for a demonstration or attended an event hosted by WhyLabs, the person with knowledge of the situation said. On the call with Arthur AI, Mr. Ngo, appearing as Mr. Fung, said that OneOneThree had looked at WhyLabs's software and liked some aspects of it, but that "it didn't go deep enough for me."
Before that Zoom meeting last year between Arthur AI and OneOneThree, the person calling himself Mr. Fung explained that OneOneThree was in "stealth mode," which is why it had no website, the person with knowledge of the situation said.
Arthur AI asked Mr. Fung to sign a mutual nondisclosure agreement, which is common among tech companies to protect trade secrets. He asked Arthur AI to "hold off on the NDA," according to messages viewed by The Times. The company agreed.
During the call, Mr. Ngo answered Arthur AI's questions about OneOneThree, according to the video recording of the meeting. Then he said his colleague Ms. Patel would join.
That was when Ms. Dhinakaran's name came up onscreen, before quickly logging off. The meeting went silent. An Arthur AI employee asked Mr. Ngo if he knew Ms. Dhinakaran and why a competing start-up's founder would try to see the demonstration, according to the recording.
"Nope, shouldn't be anyone I know," he replied.
Shortly after the call, an Arthur AI employee confronted Mr. Ngo in a LinkedIn message, a person with knowledge of the exchange said. Mr. Ngo responded by trying to recruit the Arthur AI employee to Arize AI, the person said.
Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Customers; Video recordings; Awards & honors; Startups; Engineers; False information; Artificial intelligence; High tech industries

Business indexing term: Subject: Customers Startups Artificial intelligence High tech industries

Location: New York; United States--US; Delaware

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: TubeMogul; NAICS: 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/07/technology/ai-start-ups-competition.html

Title: A Zoom Meeting, Fake Names And an A.I. Demo Gone Awry:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 16, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2850989649

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/zoom-meeting-fake-names-i-demo-gone-awry/docview/2850989649/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Zoom Call, Fake Names and an AI Presentation Gone Awry

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/zoom-call-fake-names-ai-presentation-gone-awry/docview/2850877344/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — Arthur AI, an artificial intelligence company in New York, received a message in April last year from a startup called OneOneThree. Yan Fung, OneOneThree’s head of technology, said he was interested in buying Arthur AI’s technology and wanted a demonstration.
A week later, Arthur AI held a Zoom meeting with Fung to show him its software, according to emails and a video recording viewed by The New York Times. When Fung’s colleague joined the call, the Arthur AI team realized something was off.
Fung said Karina Patel, OneOneThree’s “main engineer,” would dial in. But the name that flashed up in the Zoom call was Aparna Dhinakaran. An Arthur AI employee recognized the name as belonging to a founder of Arize AI, a rival startup. “That’s so strange — I don’t know how they could have possibly gotten the link,” the Arthur AI employee said.
The new attendee quickly logged off, and Fung said he did not know Dhinakaran.
Arthur AI later surmised from online photos that Fung was an employee of ArizeAI named Dat Ngo, a person with knowledge of the situation said. OneOneThree appeared to be an inactive company of his.
The world of AI has become increasingly competitive as big tech companies and startups fight for customers, talent, funding and publicity. As a race over the technology heats up, large companies have raided universities for engineers while some of their top talent have left to start their own AI companies. In recent months, venture capitalists have also dueled ferociously to invest in AI startups by dangling large sums at soaring valuations.
The jockeying among AI startups is particularly intense. Only the ones that strike the right partnerships, land the biggest customers and generate the most buzz have a chance at riding the wave of hype to success.
When AI has attracted interest in the past, some companies have overpromised what they can do. A 2019 study by MMC, a London-based venture capital firm, found that 40% of 2,830 European startups that were classified as AI companies did not use AI technology for any material business reason.
“We know people would do crazy things to get ahead,” said Olivier Toubia, a professor of behavioral economics and entrepreneurship at Columbia Business School. He said the tech industry’s history of cutthroat competition, especially during times of frenzied investment and opportunity, went back to the late-1990s dot-com boom.
Many businesses track their rivals, and tech startups are known for using aggressive and unconventional tactics to grow as quickly as possible. But most draw a line at behavior like using a false identity or another company’s name to pose as a customer.
Arthur AI’s CEO and an Arize AI spokesperson declined to comment. Dhinakaran and Ngo did not respond to requests for comment.
Arize AI and Arthur AI both offer “observability” software, which helps companies monitor and solve problems with AI models. Customers would most likely compare the offerings and choose one.
Dhinakaran started Arize AI in 2020 in the San Francisco Bay Area with Jason Lopatecki, a former executive at TubeMogul, an advertising technology company. The startup has raised $61 million from investors including Battery Ventures, Foundation Capital, TCV and Trinity Ventures, valuing it at $155 million, according to PitchBook, which tracks startups.
In a 2022 presentation, Arize AI listed Uber, eBay and Instacart as customers. The presentation ended with an AI-generated image of the company’s hypothetical initial public offering.
Dhinakaran, 29, is active in the AI startup scene. She speaks at industry events and writes a column about AI for Forbes, which has listed her as a 30 under 30 honoree, an award for successful young people in business. She promotes her experience as “an ML engineer and leader” at Uber, where she worked for three years, and at Apple and TubeMogul, where she was an intern.
In 2020, Dhinakaran competed in the reality television show “The Amazing Race” with her brother. They finished fifth.
“I’m passionate about making AI successful, fair and transparent,” she wrote in a biography for the show. She added that she was a foodie who enjoyed trying new cuisines, with other favorite hobbies including tennis and “hosting board game nights that involve lying.”
On LinkedIn, Ngo is listed as a founder of the OneOneThree Project, which was described as a research provider for autonomous vehicle networks, from June 2020 to July 2021. During that time, he worked as a data scientist at the software company Point Predictive and the tax consulting firm Alliantgroup, according to his LinkedIn profile. He joined Arize AI in January 2022.
Ngo registered a business called OneOneThree in Delaware in April 2021, a year before the Arthur AI meeting and eight months before he started working at Arize AI, according to corporate filings. OneOneThree had no website at the time of the meeting and lists two former employees, including Ngo, on LinkedIn. OneOneThree’s registration has not been active since March, according to a filing and a representative for the Delaware secretary of state.
OneOneThree has also appeared in a customer contact list for WhyLabs, another AI startup that competes with Arize, indicating that OneOneThree signed up for a demonstration or attended an event hosted by WhyLabs, the person with knowledge of the situation said. On the call with Arthur AI, Ngo, appearing as Fung, said that OneOneThree had looked at WhyLabs’ software and liked some aspects of it, but that “it didn’t go deep enough for me.”
Before that Zoom meeting last year between Arthur AI and OneOneThree, the person calling himself Fung explained that OneOneThree was in “stealth mode,” which is why it had no website, the person with knowledge of the situation said.
Arthur AI asked Fung to sign a mutual nondisclosure agreement, which is common among tech companies to protect trade secrets. He asked Arthur AI to “hold off on the NDA,” according to messages viewed by the Times. The company agreed.
During the call, Ngo answered Arthur AI’s questions about OneOneThree, according to the video recording of the meeting. Then he said his colleague Patel would join.
That was when Dhinakaran’s name came up on screen, before quickly logging off. The meeting went silent. An Arthur AI employee asked Ngo if he knew Dhinakaran and why a competing startup’s founder would try to see the demonstration, according to the recording.
“Nope, shouldn’t be anyone I know,” he replied.
Shortly after the call, an Arthur AI employee confronted Ngo in a LinkedIn message, a person with knowledge of the exchange said. Ngo responded by trying to recruit the Arthur AI employee to Arize AI, the person said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Customers; Awards & honors; Video recordings; Startups; Engineers

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Customers Startups

Location: New York; United States--US; Delaware

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: TubeMogul; NAICS: 513210

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Tubemogul Inc; Corporations; Forbes Magazine; Ebay Inc; San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Uber Technologies Inc; Workplace Environment; San Francisco (Calif); Business; Delaware; Alliantgroup Lp; Venture Capital; Initial Public Offerings; Videophones And Videoconferencing; Reality Television; Linkedin Corporation; Apple Inc; Europe; Forgery; Computers And The Internet; Foundation Capital; Newspapers; Artificial Intelligence; Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Labor And Jobs; Magazines; Television; Zoom Video Communications; Instacart; Start Ups; New York Times; Nondisclosure Agreements

Title: A Zoom Call, Fake Names and an AI Presentation Gone Awry

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 15, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-15T22:11:51Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2850877344

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/zoom-call-fake-names-ai-presentation-gone-awry/docview/2850877344/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

We're in the Era of the 'Top Gun' C.E.O.: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/were-era-top-gun-c-e-o/docview/2843499844/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Work is war -- or it can feel that way to certain executives. To meet the moment, they're getting in a cockpit.
"Your company is about to go on a rescue," declared Christian Boucousis, who goes by the name Boo at work. "One of your company members went out to do reconnaissance and was shot down. Now you're going to rescue your teammate and bring them home."
Mr. Boucousis, a former fighter pilot, is chief executive of an organization called Afterburner, which promises to teach "the same precision and accuracy as elite military aviators" to corporate clients. His firm has worked with Nike, Pepsi, Bank of America and many other brands. These businesses aren't struggling to save teammates shot down by enemy squadrons. Their problems? Market competition, shareholder pressures, employee turnover.
Some corporate executives find it thrilling, though, to spend a few hours feeling less like C-suite dwellers and more like Tom Cruise.Even for a significant cost: Afterburner's "Top Gun Experience" training starts at $ 10,000 for a small team and can climb to $ 100,000 for a larger one.
"If you lose sight of the airplane you're fighting against, you lose the fight," Mr. Boucousis said. "We use that as a metaphor -- if you lose sight of your business objectives, you're not going to achieve them."
There are a lot metaphors at work in this growing field: The office as battlefield. Landing the plane in a tough quarter. Rallying the troops for a product launch.
Work is war -- or it can feel that way to certain chief executives. To meet the moment, it's the era of Top Gun-style leadership training.
Many business leaders responded to the last few years of uncertainty -- work force churn, return-to-office struggles, economic flux -- by bringing softer, more emotional conversations into boardrooms. Some encouraged open discussions of employee mental health in the office. One chief executive, drawing backlash, even posted a selfie on LinkedIn showing tears streaming down his face after he laid off two employees.
Others went in the opposite direction, embracing a new style of corporate machismo. Elon Musk challenged Mark Zuckerberg to a cage match; Mr. Zuckerberg, who has been training in Brazilian jiujitsu over the past 18 months, texted the president of the Ultimate Fighting Championship to see if his rival had been serious about the proposition.
Corporate offices have long been filled with signs of aggression: shouting, cursing, traders pacing the floors with lacrosse sticks. Many of those came under scrutiny amid a push for more diversity and inclusion in the corporate world. But during times of economic pressure, the chest-thumping can sometimes come back in full force, some management experts say.
"Leaders are trying to regain a sense of control they feel they've lost over the last few years," said Cali Williams Yost, a workplace strategist. "They're searching to reassert control and power in a way that feels familiar."
Companies have long valued military experience in hiring. Hollywood has for decades valorized military leaders as the ultimate examples of strength. But now corporate executives are actually play acting as military members. Hundreds of companies are turning to unorthodox programs that use fighter pilot simulations, military principles and even NASCAR pit stop techniques to train business executives on responding to uncertainty and flux.
Women can and do participate in these trainings, but many of the companies offering them are run by men -- a source of concern for some management experts, who say workers are looking for more empathic leadership styles, not hyperaggressive ones. The share of Fortune 500 companies run by women only just crept over the 10 percent mark this year.
"I don't think it aligns with what most people say they're looking for in a leader, which is human-centric, empathetic, collaborative," Ms. Yost added.
I spent two hours doing my own F35 flight simulation through a company called the Squadron, which has an office in the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan. I put on a jumpsuit, sat behind a simulator and tried to navigate a fighter plane around Lake Mead, near Las Vegas. The Squadron team told me I should be aiming to crash no more than two times. I crashed five times.
A trainer had explained preflight that crashing isn't all bad: "If you didn't crash, what's the cost? You didn't take any chances."
Five crashes also wasn't ideal. "Plan better and know which targets you want to take," another Squadron trainer advised me. "Planning is big money for you."
Walking around the Squadron's office, I met Tal Kerret, president of Silverstein Properties, which controls the lease on the World Trade Center site, who told me he had completed the F35 simulation and encouraged his employees to do the same.
"I need my team to perform under pressure," Mr. Kerret said, explaining the stress of owning corporate real estate in New York City right now, as the industry endures its own crash driven by remote work. "We live in a world of risk. When you buy a property, when you develop a property, it's an impossible thing to do something with zero risk."
For clients of Afterburner and the Squadron (which came to New York in 2022), the experience of going on a fighter jet mission is not really the point. What's more important is the debrief that follows the mission, when teammates discuss their weaknesses and identify the causes of their mistakes, so they can avoid those errors going forward.
"We come back after a mission and ask ourselves, 'Hey, what did we set out to achieve today?"' Mr. Boucousis said.
Military veterans, like Jocko Willink, a former Navy SEAL, are unsurprised that a period of workplace chaos is pushing companies to rethink management, sometimes in extreme ways.
"The pandemic revealed that we need better leadership," Mr. Willink said. "When people aren't coming into work and you no longer see them every day, you have to use better decentralized command. That's a classic law of combat leadership."
Mr. Willink recalled a frightening operation during his time as a SEAL when he had to send his team to an isolated area where he wouldn't be able to support them. "A lot was riding on my guys being able to execute their mission," he said, adding that business leaders also have to constantly weigh risk. "It's not the same consequences, but you have a lot riding on your shoulders."
Whether Navy SEALS wisdom translates to a product release, though, isn't clear. "The question is -- is it meant to be fun? Is it meant to be photographed? Or is it meant to be impactful?" Melissa Nightingale, a co-founder of the management training firm Raw Signal Group, said of professional development. "About 75 percent of professional development efforts fall on the floor."
Still, regardless of how fleeting the benefits, the management machismo keeps spreading, as companies clamor to train their employees in ways that don't involve a Zoom screen. Like, for example, in a racecar pit.
In Raleigh, N.C., a financial technology company called Constellation Digital Partners brought its employees together -- some meeting in person for the first time -- to simulate a NASCAR pit stop. The training was facilitated by a company called Over the Wall, which was started by a former NASCAR pit crew coach, Andy Papathanassiou; rates start at $ 10,000 and vary depending on the size of the group and how much time it spends training.
Constellation's roughly 30 employees gathered in their office parking lot around a green racecar. The employees took off lug nuts with an air wrench, hoisted off the car's 50-pound tire, swapped in a new tire and got the lug nuts back on. They were dripping in sweat, sunscreen and grease, looking like the harried pit stop crew members of the Tom Cruise movie "Days of Thunder."
"It sounds silly for me to say, but the hardest part is actually getting the tire on," said Kris Kovacs, the company's chief executive. "What that teaches you is you've got to preplan. Hard things, if you practice at them and preplan, become easier and easier."
In the months after the training, Mr. Kovacs said he saw his staff become more communicative. They understood how to share their weak points with one another.
"You can do all the 'Kumbaya' trust fall stuff," he said. "Or you can get dirty with your team throwing tires onto NASCARs."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Leadership; Training; Employees; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Training Employees Executives

People: Cruise, Tom

Company / organization: Name: World Trade Center-New York City NY; NAICS: 813910; Name: National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing; NAICS: 711320, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/30/business/were-in-the-era-of-the-top-gun-ceo.html

Title: We're in the Era of the 'Top Gun' C.E.O.:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 30, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843499844

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/were-era-top-gun-c-e-o/docview/2843499844/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Angelo Mozilo, Leader of Lender In 2008 Housing Bust, Dies at 84: [Biography]

Author: Tara Siegel Bernard

Publication info: Tara Siegel Bernard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/angelo-mozilo-leader-lender-2008-housing-bust/docview/2838922728/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He built Countrywide Financial into the country's largest mortgage lender, but its increasingly risky loans helped precipitate the 2008 financial crisis.
Angelo Mozilo, a founder of Countrywide Financial who presided over that lending giant's rapid ascent and then its collapse during the financial crisis of 2008, died on Sunday. He was 84.
His death, in the Santa Barbara, Calif., area, was announced in a statement by the Mozilo Family Foundation, the family's philanthropic organization. It did not specify a cause.
Countrywide was a major player in the run-up to the housing crisis, when looser financial regulations enabled lenders to aggressively sell risky mortgage products to prospective homeowners, contributing to a bubble in housing prices. That burst, in 2008, when home values came crashing down, led the U.S. economy into a prolonged recession.
Mr. Mozilo, who was the son of a Bronx butcher and worked his way through Fordham University, became one of the most recognized executives associated with the crisis. Motivated by his modest beginnings, he had built Countrywide into one of the nation's largest mortgage lenders by the early 2000s. But he still wasn't satisfied: He wanted the company to attain 30 to 40 percent market share, far more than any single lender had achieved.
Countrywide began pushing sales of complex mortgages to prospective homeowners with weaker financial profiles, a group often referred to as "subprime" borrowers. The loans required little or no money down and put many borrowers in homes they would have otherwise been unable to afford. Many of these loans, known as "no-doc" loans, did not require any income verification.
That go-go sales culture propelled the company's growth and profits but ultimately led to its downfall. As the housing market crashed and borrower defaults soared, Countrywide's lending practices came under the scrutiny of legislators, regulators and consumer advocates.
Financial pressures began to mount, and the company, based in Calabasas, Calif., west of Los Angeles, was acquired by Bank of America in 2008 at the fire sale price of $ 4 billion. But the purchase ended up costing Bank of America billions more in legal and other costs it had inherited.
At the time, nearly 150 mortgage lenders had failed, many of which were taken over by healthier institutions.
Mr. Mozilo, recognizable by his crisp suits and deep tan, continued to defend his company throughout the ordeal. "Countrywide was one of the greatest companies in the history of this country," he told congressional examiners in September 2010, more than two years after Bank of America bought the company.
Regulators had a decidedly different take. In October 2010, Mr. Mozilo agreed to pay $ 22.5 million to settle federal charges that he had misled investors about Countrywide's risky loan portfolio. At the time, the settlement was the largest penalty levied by the Securities and Exchange Commission against a senior executive of a public company.
As part of the deal, Mr. Mozilo, who did not admit or deny wrongdoing, agreed to forfeit $ 45 million in "ill-gotten gains" to settle insider trading and other charges.
Angelo Robert Mozilo, the oldest of five children, was born on Dec. 16, 1938, in the Bronx, where he was raised. When he was about 12, he started helping his father, Ralph Mozilo, in his butcher shop, cleaning floors and cutting up chickens, according to his member profile in the Horatio Alger Association.
By the time he was 14 he had his first job in the financial industry, working as a messenger boy for a Manhattan mortgage company.
He was married to Phyllis (Ardese) Mozilo for more than 50 years. She died in 2017. He is survived by their five children, Christy Mozilo Larsen and David, Elizabeth, Eric and Mark Mozilo; and 11 grandchildren.
Mr. Mozilo said he had been unfairly portrayed as the villain of the housing crisis when scores of other lenders were involved, a perspective echoed by his family.
"Independent of how people outside of the industry may perceive this man, insiders know what an incredible force he was," Eric Mozilo said in a LinkedIn post on Tuesday.
"He was an excellent father and a legend in the mortgage industry," he added during a phone call.
Mr. Mozilo and a partner, David Loeb, who died in 2003, started Countrywide in 1969 with $ 500,000. Within a few decades, the company had grown from a conservative home lender, originally based in New York, to the largest mortgage lender in the United States. As of 2007, it had 900 offices and $ 200 billion in assets and made $ 500 billion in loans that year.
In the early 1990s, after government data revealed that lenders were disproportionately rejecting minority borrowers for home loans, Countrywide saw an untapped market and began offering more loans in low-income and minority communities.
"When I first brought the loans into the office, they said: 'You're nuts, you're crazy, don't do this. There's a reason why we're rejecting these people,"' Mr. Mozilo later told the congressional commission investigating the crisis. The loan officers, he said, "had very static, inflexible guidelines."
As he saw it, Countrywide was helping to break down the racial and economic barriers to homeownership.
So he put the staff through "sensitivity training" and hired more Black and Hispanic employees. Countrywide soon started approving one loan for every two applications reviewed, according to Mr. Mozilo. Previously, it had been approving one loan for every four applications. The new loans "did perform," he said.
But that performance did not last. In 2006, Mr. Mozilo described some of the company's riskier loans as "poison," according to internal Countrywide emails released by the S.E.C. in 2009. "In all my years in the business, I have never seen a more toxic" product, he wrote in one email.
More than a decade later, Mr. Mozilo recalled how difficult that period was for his family, but continued to defend his and his company's legacy at a financial conference in Las Vegas.
"Of course it bothers me," he said, according to a 2019 CNBC report. "It affected my reputation, it affected my family, it had a profound impact on my entire life. So I cared. Then a lot of years went by, and my wife passed away, and I turned 80 years old, and now I don't care. There's other things more important in life."
Ben Protess contributed reporting.
Ben Protess contributed reporting.
Photograph Angelo Mozilo in 2019. He and a partner started Countrywide Financial in 1969 with $ 500,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE BUGLEWICZ/BLOOMBERG) This article appeared in print on page B11.

Subject: Mortgage companies; Economic crisis; Loans; Housing prices; Regulation of financial institutions; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Mortgage companies Economic crisis Loans Housing prices Regulation of financial institutions

Location: United States--US

People: Mozilo, Angelo

Company / organization: Name: Bank of America Corp; NAICS: 522110, 551111; Name: Countrywide Financial Corp; NAICS: 522110, 522390, 523150, 551111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/18/business/angelo-mozilo-dead.html

Title: Angelo Mozilo, Leader of Lender In 2008 Housing Bust, Dies at 84:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 19, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuestdocument ID: 2838922728

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/angelo-mozilo-leader-lender-2008-housing-bust/docview/2838922728/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Small Donations Are Still Sluggish for Biden Campaign: [National Desk]

Author: Epstein, Reid J

Publication info: Epstein, Reid J. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-donations-are-still-sluggish-biden-campaign/docview/2838145796/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Wealthy Democrats have thrown their money behind the president's re-election bid, but for many reasons, the party's small donors have yet to step up their contributions.
When President Biden traveled to San Francisco last month, he raised more than $ 10 million in 36 hours from wealthy Democrats. Trips to Chicago and New York netted millions more, as did fund-raising events around Washington, proving that the party's big-donor class is fully committed to Mr. Biden's re-election campaign.
But the small-dollar online money spigot that helped Mr. Biden smash fund-raising records during his 2020 presidential campaign has not yet turned on, and there are ample signs that it may be months before it does.
The Biden campaign and the Biden Victory Fund, its joint fund-raising vehicle, collected $ 10.2 million from small donors -- defined as those who gave $ 200 or less -- during the three-month fund-raising period that ended June 30, according to a Federal Election Commission report filed Saturday. That figure is about half of the $ 21 million President Barack Obama's campaign raised during the same period of his 2012 re-election effort.
Democrats involved with Mr. Biden's campaign and the world of online fund-raising detailed a host of reasons for Mr. Biden's relatively low small-dollar haul.
Google and Apple have made it harder for email senders to see data about who has opened solicitations. Inflation slowed political donations across the board. Donors are exhausted by the unending flow of emails asking for money, and recipients are responding to far fewer of them.
At the moment, Democrats aren't quite as fired up as they were in 2018 and 2020, when Donald J. Trump's presidency opened floodgates of liberal money, or ahead of the 2022 midterms, when the Capitol riot, the rise of the election-denial movement and the Supreme Court's decision overturning Roe v. Wade all motivated donors.
And Mr. Biden is not an insurgent candidate who is motivating students to put up posters of him on dorm-room walls, as Mr. Obama or Senator Bernie Sanders did in their campaigns. His low-key White House and bare-bones campaign haven't yet motivated supporters to rage-donate to his campaign.
"Right now there's there is no day-to-day competition combat going on," said Jeffrey Katzenberg, the Hollywood mogul, whom Mr. Biden named a co-chairman of his campaign. "So these are the most loyal, most dedicated believers and supporters. It'll build over time."
Mr. Biden's campaign highlighted an array of statistics to promote its grass-roots donor operation. Nearly a third of its 394,000 donors did not contribute to Mr. Biden in 2020, the campaign said.
Yet the president's finance reports show that he is far more dependent on the wealthiest donors than Mr. Trump was in his re-election bid or Mr. Biden's opponents were in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary contest.
Ten donors, including Mr. Katzenberg, Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn, and Stewart W. Bainum Jr., the Maryland hotel magnate, gave $ 500,000 or more to the Biden Victory Fund. Another 82 donors contributed $ 100,000 or more.
Four years ago, 35 percent of the money raised by Mr. Trump and the two joint committees his campaign formed with the national committee -- Trump Victory and Trump Make America Great Again Committee -- came from donors who gave $ 200 or less. For Mr. Biden, 21 percent of funds to his campaign and the joint finance committee came from small donors.
Small-dollar contributions are down across the political spectrum. An analysis conducted by Middle Seat, a digital fund-raising firm with an array of Democratic clients, found that small donors had given less money during the first fund-raising period of 2023 than they had in nearly four years -- since early 2019.
"If I were on the Biden team right now, I'd be really happy with the numbers," said Kenneth Pennington, a partner at Middle Seat. "It's a terrible fund-raising environment, and he's not launching a new campaign."
While Mr. Biden's total fund-raising was roughly on par with the Republican candidates, he outpaced them with small donors. Combined, the G.O.P. candidates raised $ 7.5 million from small donors to his $ 10.2 million.
The percentage of contributions of less than $ 200 is typically at its high point at the beginning of a campaign and drops as campaigns proceed, because when the amount an individual donor has given exceeds $ 200, it triggers a federal disclosure requirement.
When Mr. Biden began his 2020 campaign for president, 38 percent of the money his campaign raised during the comparable reporting period came from small donors.
Democratic online fund-raising experts said they expected the pace of online giving to the Biden campaign to pick up early next year, once voters begin to pay more attention to the Republican primary race and the nominee to oppose Mr. Biden emerges.
"Once Democratic donors become focused on the Republican primary and what's at stake in the 2024 election, the Biden campaign will have no problem raising record amounts of money online," said Lauren Miller, who served as digital director to Elizabeth Warren's Senate campaigns.
Mr. Trump's small-dollar percentage cannot be discerned until his joint fund-raising committees, into which most of his online solicitations direct money, report finances. They are not required to do so until July 31.
Finance reports for the other Republican candidates reveal a party that, even more than Mr. Biden, is heavily reliant on large donors.
Among the other Republican candidates, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida reported $ 2.9 million from small donors, but that figure accounts for a mere 14 percent of what his campaign raised. The small-dollar percentages among other candidates ranged from 34 percent for former Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey to 2 percent for Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota, who is largely self-financing his campaign.
Unlike the Obama and Trump campaigns, the Biden campaign didn't begin with a digital fund-raising team in place. Instead, it has relied on the Democratic National Committee for its online solicitations. The campaign advertised last week that it was seeking a "director of email and SMS" to lead a division that typically would have more than a dozen people. The campaign recently hired a grass-roots fund-raising director, an official said Saturday.
Mr. Biden's campaign has plowed at least $ 3.3 million into advertising on Facebook and Google, according to data compiled by Bully Pulpit Interactive, a marketing and communications agency. That figure is far more than any Republican candidate has spent on the platforms and suggests that the campaign is investing in its search for small donors.
Two of Mr. Biden's top advisers, Anita Dunn and Jennifer O'Malley Dillon, who are overseeing his re-election campaign from the White House, this week formally blessed a super PAC, Future Forward, as the chief outlet for large sums of cash from supportive billionaires and multimillionaires.
Photograph President Biden's campaign and its joint fund-raising vehicle collected $ 10.2 million from small donors in the most recent quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A13.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Candidates; Political advertising

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/16/us/politics/biden-fundraising-2024.html

Title: Small Donations Are Still Sluggish for Biden Campaign:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2838145796

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-donations-are-still-sluggish-biden-campaign/docview/2838145796/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

United and Pilots Reach Deal To Increase Pay by Up to 40%: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Penn, Ivan

Publication info: Penn, Ivan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/united-pilots-reach-deal-increase-pay-up-40/docview/2838145786/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The proposed four-year agreement would be worth $ 10 billion over the life of the contract.
United Airlines pilots reached agreement with the company on Saturday on a contract valued at $ 10 billion that would increase pay up to 40 percent over four years.
The proposed contract offers another big wage victory for pilots in the United States after a deal with Delta Air Lines was approved in March. The substantial raises are a reflection of a shortage of pilots in the United States and the strong recovery in demand for air travel.
In addition to the higher compensation, the agreement provides better job security, work rules, vacation, retirement and other benefits.
At a major airline like United, pilots easily earn six-figure salaries. The most senior pilots, who typically fly larger planes on international routes, can earn several hundred thousand dollars a year.
In a statement, United, which is based in Chicago, said the deal would help its "United Next" strategy, an expansion plan that includes the purchase of larger planes to increase in the number of seats per flight in North America by almost 30 percent and the number of premium seats per flight by 75 percent by 2026.
"We promised our world-class pilots the industry-leading contract they deserve, and we're pleased to have reached an agreement," Scott Kirby, chief executive at United Airlines, wrote on the social media network LinkedIn.
Union officials said the agreement was the result of four years of negotiations and represented a "landmark" deal in the airline industry as travel demand rises after the steep drop during the height of the pandemic.
"The tireless dedication demonstrated by United pilots over the past several years ensured our solidarity, which was instrumental in achieving this historic agreement," Capt. Garth Thompson, chairman of the Master Executive Council of the United Air Line Pilots Association International, said in a statement.
The Air Line Pilots Association, the largest airline pilot union in the world, represents 74,000 pilots at 42 airlines in the United States and Canada, including 16,000 pilots at United Airlines.
The union and management will now complete the final language of the deal. The agreement must then be approved by a vote of the members of the pilots association, which is expected in the next several weeks.
In March, Delta approved a contract that increases wages 34 percent by 2026 and includes improvements to scheduling, retirement and other benefits. Delta's deal raised the standard for pilot compensation and benefits.
The shortage of pilots is the result of the airlines reducing the number of pilots through buyouts and retirements when air travel was significantly curtailed early in the pandemic. But with rapidly growing demand for airline flights over the last year, the carriers have been increasing pilot pay and benefits as they hire thousands to fill the depleted ranks.
Niraj Chokshi contributed reporting.
Niraj Chokshi contributed reporting.
Photograph The contract is supposed to help "United Next," a new expansion strategy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO MUNOZ/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Agreements; Expansion; Airlines; Air travel; Pilots; Pandemics

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Air Line Pilots Association; NAICS: 813930; Name: United Airlines Inc; NAICS: 481111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/16/business/united-airlines-pilots-contract.html

Title: United and Pilots Reach Deal To Increase Pay by Up to 40%:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 17, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2838145786

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/united-pilots-reach-deal-increase-pay-up-40/docview/2838145786/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Drilling for Stars, Saudis Cause 'Chaos' In the Transfer Market: [Sports Desk]

Author: Smith, Rory; Panja, Tariq; Ahmed Al Omran

Publication info: Smith, Rory; Panja, Tariq; Ahmed Al Omran. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/drilling-stars-saudis-cause-chaos-transfer-market/docview/2837236325/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The cold calls and text messages started arriving on Jan Van Winckel's phone a couple of months ago, and they have not stopped. They come at a rate of about 10 a day, he said, a steady stream of hope-you're-wells and long-time-no-speaks from old acquaintances, archived contacts, friends of friends of friends.
The bromides change but the brass tacks are the same. Van Winckel, 49, now works in the United Arab Emirates, but he has spent a good portion of his career in soccer in Saudi Arabia, serving as both a coach and the technical director of the country's national teams.
That is what makes him valuable to agents, brokers and executives pinging his phone, over and over, all asking for the same thing: an introduction to a Saudi club president, a connection to an official at the Saudi Pro League, the phone number of someone, anyone, who might be able to help them stake their claim in soccer's new gold rush.
In the first week of June, Saudi Arabia's soccer authorities and its sovereign wealth fund announced an audacious plan to transform the game in the kingdom: The Public Investment Fund, they announced, would take control of four of Saudi Arabia's most prominent teams, and hundreds of millions of dollars would be made available to buy some of the game's biggest stars. And in that moment, even before the first checks were cut, the Pro League became one of the most appealing destinations in the world.
Just as with its interventions in golf, boxing and a host of other sports, the rationale offered by the Saudi authorities focused on public health benefits, the need to diversify the country's economy, a desire to help wean it from a reliance on oil. Outside, a more cynical explanation took hold: This was just another attempt by the country's autocratic leaders to hide its abysmal human rights record behind sport's gilded drapes.
Soccer, though, did not waste time wondering about the whys and wherefores. Instead, the sport -- or rather, the web of agents and intermediaries, fixers and middlemen who operate in the game's opaque player trading industry -- did what it always does when there are deals to be done and money to be made. It got to work.
Maelstrom
It did not take long for Saudi Arabia's bold vision of the future to bear fruit. A couple of days after the Public Investment Fund's announcement, Karim Benzema -- the reigning Ballon d'Or winner -- was on a private jet to Jeddah, where he would sign with Al-Ittihad. In the weeks since, a half-dozen other pros who played in Europe have followed, among them N'Golo Kanté, Rúben Neves and Roberto Firmino.
That is probably only the start. Saudi Arabia's sports ministry has reportedly set aside about $ 800 million to beef up the league's rosters this summer, with the aim of making at least 18 high-profile signings. Philippe Coutinho and Jordan Henderson may join Al-Ettifaq, now coached by the former Liverpool and England star Steven Gerrard. The Colombians Radamel Falcao and James Rodríguez and the Brazilian midfielder Fabinho are considering lucrative offers, too.
The speed at which the Saudi league has been able to cherry-pick such familiar, if fading, names from Europe's elite clubs has made the country's ambition feel like an inevitability. In conversations with two dozen agents, coaches, officials and executives with firsthand experience of Saudi Arabia's transfer dealings this summer, a very different picture emerged.
The Saudi intervention, as one agent put it, has unleashed a "free-for-all" in soccer's transfer market. An executive at a major European club described the last few weeks as "chaos." Like most of the people interviewed for this article, they agreed to speak on condition of anonymity because they were not permitted to discuss commercially sensitive matters publicly.
And it is not just Van Winckel who has been inundated with requests in the search for contacts. Staff members at Saudi clubs have been "bombarded" by unsolicited connections on their LinkedIn profiles, several said. Agents with relationships in the country have been pressed for information and introductions.
Clubs in Europe, meanwhile, have been contacted by fixers with dubious claims to represent Saudi teams. Major agencies have found their inboxes clogged with apparent offers for their players from Pro League teams. At least one has had to spend hours performing due diligence on each approach, trying to separate the genuine from the spurious.
Even current and former employees at Newcastle United -- the Premier League team majority owned by the Public Investment Fund -- have found their phones unexpectedly busy. Some calls come from agents with players to hawk. Others are from teams desperate to offload their surplus to Saudi Arabia. Far too many come from self-appointed rainmakers of indeterminate credibility.
Nobody, though, has been quite so affected by the maelstrom created by Saudi Arabia's vision of the future -- either carelessly or inadvertently -- as the Saudis themselves.
Going Rogue
It took months for the Saudi Pro League, the Ministry of Sport and the Public Investment Fund, or PIF, to draw up a plan to change Saudi soccer. External consultants, paid princely sums for their advice, were hired to make sure the venture felt "authentic."
The country did not, it made plain, want to repeat the myriad mistakes made by the Chinese Super League in its brief, dazzling moment in the sun in 2016. The intention, as with many of the projects linked to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's Vision 2030 program, was to build something sustainable.
Saudi Arabia's teams are among the best in Asia, but many of them have only the loosest internal structures. Few have sophisticated recruitment departments: For years, they have been "passive" purchasers, one executive said, reliant on agents to pitch players to them.
The clubs' finances, too, can be surprisingly fly-by-night. At one point this season, Al-Ittihad -- now home to Benzema and Kanté and their nine-figure contracts -- failed to pay some of its employees for three months. Even as those recent signings were being announced, the club had not yet fulfilled its bonuses for what had been a title-winning campaign last season.
It was also one of a number of Saudi clubs that still had a case outstanding at the dispute resolution chamber at FIFA's headquarters in Zurich, the body where players and teams that have been stiffed over unpaid salaries or transfer fees go to complain. So, too, did Al-Nassr, the home of Cristiano Ronaldo.
Several of those issues remained unresolved as a fresh wave of stars was starting to arrive in Jeddah and Riyadh. Until the cases are settled, the accused clubs cannot register their showpiece signings on the FIFA mechanism that authorizes cross-border transfers.
The Saudi authorities, then, realized that they would have to oversee player recruitment directly. The government would provide the money -- as a gift, rather than a loan -- but the league would have some central control over how it was spent, in order to make sure it was used to help the competition improve.
"They are very smart," said Van Winckel, who remains in contact with many of the executives tasked with implementing the new vision for the league. "They are not just splashing money around. There is a strategy."
To that end, the Pro League issued its clubs a list of a couple dozen recommended signings, mainly players in their early 30s, many of them out of contract at European teams, and a set of relatively simple ground rules.
Any player commanding an annual salary of more than $ 3 million would have to be approved by the league. Teams were not to negotiate against one another, and any player found to be using one team as a bargaining chip to elicit a more lucrative salary from a rival would be immediately blacklisted. The teams were urged to think collectively. The idea of appointing a sporting director to work across the league as a whole was suggested. The role may soon be handed to Michael Emenalo, who once held that post at Chelsea.
For the time being, though, the clubs were granted a degree of autonomy. They would be able to pursue the targets they felt best suited their needs. They would not have to accept players against their wishes.
Al-Hilal, for example, one of the four clubs slated to be taken over by the PIF, elected against signing Luka Modric when it became clear he would consider only a one-year contract. (Most of the deals being offered run for three years, ensuring that players who sign will be in Saudi club colors in the run-up to the 2026 World Cup.)
It did not take long, though, for the opportunists who populate the shadier corners of the transfer market to spot the cracks in the system. Saudi executives, unaccustomed to the active pursuit of players, found themselves flummoxed by the sheer number of agents claiming an exclusive mandate to negotiate on behalf of clients or to act as the sole representative of a European club.
At the same time, the league found that its valuations at times varied wildly from those of its team presidents, who were apparently more than happy to use government money to pay well above market value. When Al-Hilal submitted a bulk offer for five Chelsea players, officials privately fumed at what they perceived to be a massively inflated fee, one that might drive up prices elsewhere.
Within a couple of weeks, the league realized it needed to change its approach, to find a way to impose some sort of order on the chaos. The job of doing so would fall to an official who had built an influential, if low-profile, career in Saudi sports. That man, Saad Al-Lazeez, was about to become arguably the most important person in European soccer.
Receipts
One of Van Winckel's tasks after taking on a post as the technical director of the Saudi Arabian soccer federation in 2015 was to arrange a tour of a handful of major European clubs. He took, as his guests, a number of officials from the federation and a couple of team presidents. The aim was to see what Saudi Arabia could learn from Europe's most famous talent factories.
Van Winckel booked the hotels, organized the visits and arranged the travel. Although he was traveling with influential Saudis accustomed to a certain standard of luxury, he made a point of operating on what he describes as a reasonable budget. "We were not in five-star luxury hotels," he said. "It was nice, but we did not have Mercedes drivers or anything. I drove myself from Dortmund to Ajax, for example."
It was a good decision. At the end of the trip, Van Winckel not only gave a detailed presentation to a hundred or so staff members at the Saudi federation, showcasing what he and his cohort had learned, but he also submitted a full set of receipts for the trip.
He had been sent by Prince Abdullah bin Mosaad, the minister for the General Sports Authority, the precursor to the Ministry of Sports. But it was his vice president for technical and investment affairs who signed off on the expenses: Al-Lazeez.
Al-Lazeez has taken the same fastidious approach since replacing a British executive, Garry Cook, as chairman of the Saudi Pro League in May. Colleagues describe him, variously, as urbane, effective and smart. His English is "impeccable." He is, as Van Winckel put it, "someone who thinks in the macro."
Precise biographical details, though, are scant. Al-Lazeez is said to be an ardent N.F.L. fan. He has, according to a Pro League statement, a master's degree in project management from the University of Liverpool. He has had spells as the Pro League's chief executive and vice chairman, too, and has had places on the boards of a number of European teams owned by Prince Abdullah, including Sheffield United.
Quite how much any of those roles prepared him for his current task -- managing the flow of hundreds of millions of dollars and the acquisition and dispersal of some of the world's best soccer talent -- is unclear.
At Sheffield United, he helped allocate the budget and assess performance, but staff members at the club during his yearlong spell as a director do not recall him helping with player recruitment or attending board meetings. This summer, then, his learning curve has been steep.
In an attempt to streamline the Pro League's attempts to sign players, Al-Lazeez relocated to Europe. Splitting his time among London, Paris and Spain, he did all he could to cut through the noise and keep Saudi Arabia's carefully curated plans on track.
As such, access to him is tightly controlled. He deliberately maintains a low public profile, including to the news media, and did not respond to requests to be interviewed for this article. To obtain a meeting, agents claiming to represent a player must produce either a printed mandate or, better, the player himself, in flesh and blood. Al-Lazeez does not want to talk to middlemen. The policy, one agent said, is "only to go direct."
Even the most powerful agents in European soccer have been told that the Saudis will be in touch if one of their clients is required. There will be no preferential treatment for one stable of players over another, a key lesson that the Saudis have taken from the Chinese experience.
Instead, two European agencies have been unofficially appointed to act as his Sherpas through the morass of misinformation in the market, to make sure Al-Lazeez can pitch straight to the players what the league and its clubs want. His focus is on players who can "help develop the league," an official close to the league's management said. "They have to complement the master plan."
It is Al-Lazeez, now, who ultimately controls access to the Saudi market. He chooses which players, which agents and which clubs profit from the gold rush.
He is the person all of those people -- the agents and the intermediaries, the fixers and the fantasists -- must talk to if they are to stake their claim. His is the one phone number everyone wants. For most, it is the one number they will never get.
Photograph The Portuguese star Cristiano Ronaldo playing for the Saudi club Al-Nassr in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAYEZ NURELDINE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); The Saudi league and Super Cup trophies were displayed, above, during ceremony welcoming Benzema at King Abdullah Sports City on June 8. Saudi Arabia has clubs like Al-Hilal that have been champions of Asia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YASSER BAKHSH/GETTY IMAGES) (B8); Ronaldo at a ceremony introducing him in Riyadh in January. He and Benzema were among the first world-class stars to sign in Saudi Arabia, where the sports ministry reportedly set a target of at least 18 high-profile signings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; AHMED YOSRI/REUTERS) (B8-B9); Karim Benzema at a ceremony in Jeddah welcoming him to Al-Ittihad last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS); The Chelsea defender Kalidou Koulibaly, above, was signed by Al-Hilal in late June. Since the Ronaldo deal demonstrated the Saudis' ambitions, scammers and self-appointed rainmakers have been particularly active. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AL HILAL CLUB MEDIA OFFICE/VIA REUTERS; GIUSEPPE CACACE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAYEZ NURELDINE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B9) This article appeared in print on page B8, B9.

Subject: Soccer

Location: Saudi Arabia; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Federation Internationale de Football Association--FIFA; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/13/sports/soccer/saudi-soccer.html

Title: Drilling for Stars, Saudis Cause 'Chaos' In the Transfer Market:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2837236325

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/drilling-stars-saudis-cause-chaos-transfer-market/docview/2837236325/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New Smithsonian Director Withdraws From Role: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Jacobs, Julia

Publication info: Jacobs, Julia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-smithsonian-director-withdraws-role/docview/2833856721/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Nancy Yao was to lead a Smithsonian museum about the influence of American women. Her withdrawal came amid a review of how she had handled sexual harassment complaints in an earlier post.
The Smithsonian's choice for the founding director of its developing American Women's History Museum has withdrawn from the role, the institution said Wednesday.
A Smithsonian spokeswoman, Linda St. Thomas, said that the new director, Nancy Yao, had cited "family issues that require her attention" in deciding to withdraw. The announcement came after the completion of an investigation into how Yao had handled sexual harassment claims in her previous role as the leader of the Museum of Chinese in America, in Manhattan's Chinatown neighborhood, for eight years.
The Smithsonian declined to elaborate on the findings of the outside firm hired to investigate the sexual harassment issue and it did not detail the family issues Yao cited. But in a post on LinkedIn, Yao said her father is in hospice care, her two teenage children need her support and that the family situation meant she would not be able to give the museum the attention it deserved.
"Although it is an amazing opportunity, and one that I've always dreamed of, my family needs me now more than ever," she wrote.
About a month after the Smithsonian announced her appointment, The Washington Post reported that under Yao, the Museum of Chinese in America had settled three wrongful-termination lawsuits filed by employees who said they were fired in retaliation for reporting sexual harassment on behalf of young female staff members at the organization.
For months, Yao's appointment has hung in the balance as an outside firm investigated claims against her, which included an assertion in one of the lawsuits that, as museum president, she had "tolerated and endorsed two male employees' persistent sexual harassment" of several female employees at the organization. Yao denied the allegation in court papers, asserting that the museum had proper policies and procedures in place to respond to workplace harassment. She denied to The Post that the staffers had been let go in retaliation for their reports, attributing the decisions to budget pressures.
In a phone interview after the Smithsonian's announcement, Yao declined to discuss the investigation's findings but said she wanted to state "how important I believe a safe workplace is for everyone."
While the Smithsonian searches for a replacement, the women's history museum has appointed Melanie A. Adams, the director of the Smithsonian's Anacostia Community Museum, as interim director. The women's history museum's 18 staff members were informed of Yao's decision on Wednesday, St. Thomas said.
In leading the development of a new museum, which does not yet have a building, Yao would have been overseeing an ambitious endeavor -- curating a collection designed to represent the historical influence of American women. Establishing the museum, which is expected to open in roughly 10 years, was estimated to cost about $ 375 million between construction and the creation of exhibits.
The museum's creation is partly being funded by the federal government and partly by philanthropy, no doubt making Yao's track record with nonprofit fund-raising attractive to the Smithsonian.
A former Goldman Sachs employee in the investment banking division, Yao went on to lead a nonprofit dedicated to cultural exchange between the United States and China, before taking over the Museum of Chinese in America. She was leading the organization when a devastating fire ripped through the building, endangering roughly 85,000 artifacts. The museum secured a $ 3 million grant that would help preserve the collection, and later on, it announced plans for a new, significantly expanded headquarters designed by the architect Maya Lin and the museum designer Ralph Appelbaum. In its hiring announcement for Yao, the Smithsonian cited the organization's accomplishment in raising more than $ 60 million for the project.
During her tenure at the Chinatown museum, Yao became an influential leader in New York City's cultural sector, but also found herself the subject of fierce criticism in the surrounding community. In 2021, the museum was the site of protests by community members who objected to its decision to take $ 35 million from the city as part of a plan of community investment at a time when the city was expanding a jail in the neighborhood. At the time, Yao said that the protesters' grievances had been misplaced onto the small museum.
The Smithsonian had announced that Yao would step in as the museum's director on June 5, but the starting date had been delayed for weeks amid the investigation into Yao's handling of the internal complaints in New York.
Photograph Nancy Yao's appointment was troubled. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA MUSEUM OF CHINESE IN AMERICA) This article appeared in print on page C13.

Subject: Community; Appointments & personnel changes; Investigations; Sexual harassment; Employees; Museums; Womens history; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Appointments & personnel changes Employees

Company / organization: Name: Museum of Chinese in America-New York City NY; NAICS: 712110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/05/arts/design/director-smithsonian-womens-history-withdraws.html

Title: New Smithsonian Director Withdraws From Role:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 7, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Languageof publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2833856721

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-smithsonian-director-withdraws-role/docview/2833856721/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Thinkboi': [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thinkboi/docview/2831912837/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: /thĭngk-boi/
A slang term for wannabe experts.
There are two main paths to fame, fortune and followers in business. You can do a lot of work for a long time and hope you are someday rewarded with success. Or you can skip the grueling, boring part and tweet as if you already are a success. The first group -- business influencers who have made it -- are called thought leaders.
The second group -- those who haven't but post as if they have? Those are thinkbois. The road to thought leadership is littered with thinkbois.
Once you understand the difference, it's difficult to unsee.
Thought leaders give TED Talks. Thinkbois have podcasts.
Thought leaders commission ghostwritten books. Thinkbois use ChatGPT to write LinkedIn broetry and hustle-porn tweet storms.
Thought leaders work at Salesforce or Accenture. Thinkbois work at a start-up you've never heard of.
Thought leaders go to Davos. Thinkbois move to Miami.
They are quick to jump on whatever trend is getting the most attention, as the satirical Twitter account VCBrags recently pointed out, tweeting, "Absolutely wild how many tech thinkbois quietly rebranded themselves from Web3/Crypto experts to AI experts."
Thinkbois can graduate to the echelons of thought leadership, but why would they want to? The clout that comes with a large online following can open enough doors on its own. Attention begets more attention, and business lessons are often so generic and obvious that it barely matters whether they were obtained through decades of hard-won experience ... or from web-searching "legal definition fiduciary duty."
Thinkbois democratize who gets to preach the gospel of creating shareholder value. They inspire the world to hustle our way toward maximal optimization and reflect on our key wins at each turn. Who among us hasn't lusted for capitalist success after watching a viral TikTok about productivity? Who among us hasn't striven harder than we've ever striven with flow states, batch working and the Pomodoro technique?
What's that? You haven't? Perhaps you've been thought-led astray.
This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Leadership; Success

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/29/business/thought-leaders-vs-thinkbois-a-guide.html

Title: 'Thinkboi':   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 2, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2831912837

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thinkboi/docview/2831912837/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Estimating Their Worth Before an Offer Is Made: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Brown, H Claire

Publication info: Brown, H Claire. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/estimating-their-worth-before-offer-is-made/docview/2827849254/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Salary disclosure laws have been a boon for workers searching for jobs that pay fairly -- but only when the advertised pay bands are narrow enough to be useful.
Last December, Yun Yati Naing began searching for the job she would begin after graduating from Baruch College in New York City. It was one month after a law passed by the city went into effect requiring employers with four or more employees to post salary ranges on all new job advertisements.
"All my friends were talking about it," Ms. Naing said. "It really made a difference going into the work force as a fresh graduate. We had no idea what the wages of these entry-level jobs were."
Thanks to the new disclosure requirements, Ms. Naing, who was interested in a career in finance, was able to filter out opportunities that paid less than $ 50,000, the minimum salary she hoped to earn. She tracked job opportunities on an Excel spreadsheet, and, after a flurry of interviews and offers, she accepted a job in financial services that advertised starting pay between $ 54,000 and $ 79,000.
Her new employer's offer came in at $ 60,000, and she negotiated a modest increase. She graduated in early June and has just started work.
More and more young people like Ms. Naing are entering job searches with a cleareyed view of how much money they can expect to earn, the result of a spate of new laws that require employers to list pay ranges on job advertisements. Salary transparency legislation has been enacted in California, Washington State, Colorado and a handful of cities including New York. Illinois passed a wage transparency law in May.
More than one-fourth of the U.S. labor force is now covered by salary transparency legislation, according to an estimate by the National Women's Law Center. Norms are shifting nationwide: At Indeed, a job search website, about 45 percent of all advertisements for work in the United States now carry a pay range disclosure, up from less than 20 percent before the pandemic.
Lawmakers often introduce pay transparency laws in an effort to help reduce gender and racial wage gaps. Women working full time in the United States are paid about 84 percent as much as men, according to the Department of Labor, and Black, Hispanic and Native American workers earn 73 to 77 cents for every dollar earned by white workers. Requiring employers to list salary ranges helps demystify a job search.
"They can rest assured that what they're getting is fair, and they can feel more confident about that choice," said Ellen Stein, director of the Starr Career Development Center at Baruch.
Illuminating Pay Discrepancies
For some workers, the disclosure law has revealed pay disparities where they work. Kimberly Nguyen, a 25-year-old poet and UX writer who writes consumer-facing text for digital products, was scrolling through LinkedIn in March when she found a listing for her own job. She had recently been hired by the consulting agency Photon to work as a contractor for Citigroup on a team that included full-time employees and other contractors.
During the interview process, Ms. Nguyen said, she was told that the only way to secure a full-time job at Citi was to work as a contractor first, and that the company's goal was to eventually hire all contractors as full-time employees through a process called conversion. She was told that she would be eligible for conversion after six months of contract work.
When the job posting for a UX copywriting position at Citi popped up on her LinkedIn feed, Ms. Nguyen thought it might signal a permanent job opening for one of the contractors. The difference in pay was substantial: She was making $ 85,000, and the salary range on the job listing was $ 117,200 to $ 175,800.
"If the salary were maybe a $ 10,000 to $ 15,000 difference, I would be like, OK, that makes sense," Ms. Nguyen said. "The contracting agency has to get their cut. Citi's paying them to pay me. But the gap is so big."
Posting on Twitter about the situation, Ms. Nguyen wrote, "My company just listed on LinkedIn a job posting for what I'm currently doing (so we're hiring another UX writer) and now thanks to salary transparency laws, I see that they intend to pay this person $ 32k- $ 90k more than they currently pay me, so I applied."
Later, she attended a meeting where she asked her Citi supervisors about the job advertisement. Some of the other contractors on her team had also reached out to management with questions about the post and the salary, which was higher than what they were earning. Frustrated after not receiving a clear response, she added to her Twitter thread.
The thread went viral, drawing attention to the issue. But when we spoke in June, nothing had changed. Ms. Nguyen was still working for Photon as a contractor at Citi and had not received a raise. She hadn't heard of anyone on her team of contractors being hired full time at the bank, though a few had been laid off. Three weeks ago, she checked her application status for the Citi job. She was no longer being considered for the role. She has been searching for new opportunities.
"Obviously the point of the law is for people to be able to advocate for themselves," Ms. Nguyen said. "But no one's required to do anything as a result."
Neither Citi nor Photon responded to requests for comment.
Stretched-Out Salary Bands
In some cases, employers have avoided disclosing specific pay practices by posting job advertisements with salary ranges that could apply to anyone at the company, from a new hire in a cubicle to an executive with a corner office. At Netflix, for example, current job postings in California show pay ranges from $ 60,000 to $ 290,000 for a role in consumer products and $ 195,000 to $ 510,000 for a senior manager in talent and recruiting. Netflix did not respond to questions on how it had determined those ranges.
"While the whole enterprise is generally more helpful than not, there can be some ranges that are not that informative when they're so large," Dr. Stein of Baruch said.
Ms. Naing, the recent graduate, estimated that a quarter of the job postings she had encountered during her search in New York displayed ranges that were too wide to be useful.
The practice may be spreading in high-paying industries. Recent research by economists at the Indeed Hiring Lab has shown that published salary ranges are getting wider for occupations in pharmacy, medical information, scientific research and development, and other industries. Pay estimates for jobs in food preparation and child care are growing more precise.
"In general, occupations that are more likely to be remote and have higher pay seem to be having widening ranges, whereas those that are more likely to be lower-paid positions and are more likely to be in person are starting to see more narrowing in the last year," Cory Stahle, the author of the Hiring Lab report, said.
One possible explanation for the opposing trends is unevenness in the labor market. While hiring at many tech companies has slowed in the past year, demand for workers in child care has remained strong. A tight labor market may pressure an employer to compete for workers, resulting in a more precise (and potentially higher) pay rate on a job listing.
By contrast, in industries that have seen layoffs, employers may be able to attract qualified applicants without posting exact salaries.
Mr. Stahle's research also noted a geographic trend in pay data: Of the 10 cities with the most significantly widening ranges, seven were in areas with new transparency laws.
Enforcing Transparency Measures
State and local governments have not said how they intend to crack down on employers that list overly broad salary ranges or sidestep pay disclosure entirely. In Colorado, where a transparency law has been in effect since 2021, a spokesperson for the Department of Labor and Employment said the state had issued 19 citations for violations of the law, most of which did not include fines, and had notified more than 440 companies of possible noncompliance.
Most of these companies corrected the issue before the state began a formal investigation. The spokesperson said that Colorado had not issued any warnings for overly broad salary ranges, and that the state was focusing on voluntary compliance rather than fines.
A press officer for the New York City Commission on Human Rights said the city had received more than 300 tips about noncompliance, but the officer did not answer questions about the substance of the complaints or whether any fines or warning letters had been issued.
Companies may find it necessary to support transparency measures in order to attract job applicants. In a survey of more than 1,000 postsecondary students and recent graduates conducted in December by Adobe, 85 percent said they would be less likely to apply for a job if the company did not disclose the salary range in the job posting.
Ms. Naing, the recent graduate, said it felt as if some companies were listing huge salary ranges "just to be spiteful," adding that she hoped to see less of it in the future.
Photograph More than one-fourth of the work force in the United States is now covered by salary transparency legislation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW KELLY/REUTERS) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Hiring; Disclosure; Child care; Employees; Employment; Contractors; Employers; Occupations; Research & development--R & D; Job hunting; Cities; Labor market; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Hiring Disclosure Employees Employment Contractors Employers Job hunting Labor market Wages & salaries

Location: New York; United States--US; Colorado; New York City New York; California

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/20/business/job-search-salary-ranges.html

Title: Estimating Their Worth Before an Offer Is Made:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 21, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2827849254

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/estimating-their-worth-before-offer-is-made/docview/2827849254/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Job With a Fair Salary? What Pay Transparency Laws Are Revealing.

Author: Brown, H Claire

Publication info: Brown, H Claire. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/job-with-fair-salary-what-pay-transparency-laws/docview/2827791370/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Last December, Yun Yati Naing began searching for the job she would begin after graduating from Baruch College in New York City. It was one month after a law passed by the city went into effect requiring employers with four or more employees to post salary ranges on all new job advertisements.
“All my friends were talking about it,” Naing said. “It really made a difference going into the workforce as a fresh graduate. We had no idea what the wages of these entry-level jobs were.”
Thanks to the new disclosure requirements, Naing, who was interested in a career in finance, was able to filter out opportunities that paid less than $50,000, the minimum salary she hoped to earn. She tracked job opportunities on an Excel spreadsheet, and after a flurry of interviews and offers, she accepted a job in financial services that advertised starting pay between $54,000 and $79,000.
Her new employer’s offer came in at $60,000, and she negotiated a modest increase. She graduated in early June and has just started work.
More and more young people like Naing are entering job searches with a clear-eyed view of how much money they can expect to earn, the result of a spate of new laws that require employers to list pay ranges on job advertisements. Salary transparency legislation has been enacted in California, Washington state, Colorado and a handful of cities including New York. Illinois passed a wage transparency law in May.
More than one-fourth of the U.S. labor force is now covered by salary transparency legislation, according to an estimate by the National Women’s Law Center. Norms are shifting nationwide: At Indeed, a job search website, about 45% of all advertisements for work in the United States now carry a pay range disclosure, up from less than 20% before the pandemic.
Lawmakers often introduce pay transparency laws in an effort to help reduce gender and racial wage gaps. Women working full time in the United States are paid about 84% as much as men, according to the Department of Labor, and Black, Hispanic and Native American workers earn 73 to 77 cents for every dollar earned by white workers. Requiring employers to list salary ranges helps demystify a job search.
“They can rest assured that what they’re getting is fair, and they can feel more confident about that choice,” said Ellen Stein, director of the Starr Career Development Center at Baruch.
Illuminating Pay Discrepancies
For some workers, the disclosure law has revealed pay disparities where they work. Kimberly Nguyen, a 25-year-old poet and UX writer who writes consumer-facing text for digital products, was scrolling through LinkedIn in March when she found a listing for her own job. She had recently been hired by the consulting agency Photon to work as a contractor for Citigroup on a team that included full-time employees and other contractors.
During the interview process, Nguyen said, she was told that the only way to secure a full-time job at Citi was to work as a contractor first and that the company’s goal was to eventually hire all contractors as full-time employees through a process called conversion. She was told that she would be eligible for conversion after six months of contract work.
When the job posting for a UX copywriting position at Citi popped up on her LinkedIn feed, Nguyen thought it might signal a permanent job opening for one of the contractors. The difference in pay was substantial: She was making $85,000, and the salary range on the job listing was $117,200 to $175,800.
“If the salary were maybe a $10,000 to $15,000 difference, I would be like, OK, that makes sense,” Nguyen said. “The contracting agency has to get their cut. Citi’s paying them to pay me. But the gap is so big.”
Posting on Twitter about the situation, Nguyen wrote, “My company just listed on LinkedIn a job posting for what I’m currently doing (so we’re hiring another UX writer) and now thanks to salary transparency laws, I see that they intend to pay this person $32k-$90k more than they currently pay me, so I applied.”
Later, she attended a meeting where she asked her Citi supervisors about the job advertisement. Some of the other contractors on her team had also reached out to management with questions about the post and the salary, which was higher than what they were earning. Frustrated after not receiving a clear response, she added to her Twitter thread.
The thread went viral, drawing attention to the issue. But when we spoke in June, nothing had changed. Nguyen was still working for Photon as a contractor at Citi and had not received a raise. She hadn’t heard of anyone on her team of contractors being hired full time at the bank, though a few had been laid off. Three weeks ago, she checked her application status for the Citi job. She was no longer being considered for the role. She has been searching for new opportunities.
“Obviously, the point of the law is for people to be able to advocate for themselves,” Nguyen said. “But no one’s required to do anything as a result.”
Neither Citi nor Photon responded to requests for comment.
Stretched-Out Salary Bands
In some cases, employers have avoided disclosing specific pay practices by posting job advertisements with salary ranges that could apply to anyone at the company, from a new hire in a cubicle to an executive with a corner office. At Netflix, for example, current job postings in California show pay ranges from $60,000 to $290,000 for a role in consumer products and $195,000 to $510,000 for a senior manager in talent and recruiting. Netflix did not respond to questions on how it had determined those ranges.
“While the whole enterprise is generally more helpful than not, there can be some ranges that are not that informative when they’re so large,” Stein of Baruch said.
Naing, the recent graduate, estimated that one-quarter of the job postings she had encountered during her search in New York displayed ranges that were too wide to be useful.
The practice may be spreading in high-paying industries. Recent research by economists at the Indeed Hiring Lab has shown that published salary ranges are getting wider for occupations in pharmacy, medical information, scientific research and development, and other industries. Pay estimates for jobs in food preparation and child care are growing more precise.
“In general, occupations that are more likely to be remote and have higher pay seem to be having widening ranges, whereas those that are more likely to be lower-paid positions and are more likely to be in person are starting to see more narrowing in the last year,” said Cory Stahle, the author of the Hiring Lab report.
One possible explanation for the opposing trends is unevenness in the labor market. While hiring at many tech companies has slowed in the past year, demand for workers in child care has remained strong. A tight labor market may pressure an employer to compete for workers, resulting in a more precise (and potentially higher) pay rate on a job listing.
By contrast, in industries that have seen layoffs, employers may be able to attract qualified applicants without posting exact salaries.
Stahle’s research also noted a geographic trend in pay data: Of the 10 cities with the most significantly widening ranges, seven were in areas with new transparency laws.
Enforcing Transparency Measures
State and local governments have not said how they intend to crack down on employers that list overly broad salary ranges or sidestep pay disclosure entirely. In Colorado, where a transparency law has been in effect since 2021, a spokesperson for the Department of Labor and Employment said the state had issued 19 citations for violations of the law, most of which did not include fines, and had notified more than 440 companies of possible noncompliance.
Most of these companies corrected the issue before the state began a formal investigation. The spokesperson said that Colorado had not issued any warnings for overly broad salary ranges and that the state was focusing on voluntary compliance rather than fines.
A press officer for the New York City Commission on Human Rights said the city had received more than 300 tips about noncompliance, but the officer did not answer questions about the substance of the complaints or whether any fines or warning letters had been issued.
Companies may find it necessary to support transparency measures in order to attract job applicants. In a survey of more than 1,000 postsecondary students and recent graduates conducted in December by Adobe, 85% said they would be less likely to apply for a job if the company did not disclose the salary range in the job posting.
Naing, the recent graduate, said it felt as if some companies were listing huge salary ranges “just to be spiteful,” adding that she hoped to see less of it in the future.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Hiring; Disclosure; Child care; Employees; Employment; Contractors; Employers; Occupations; Research & development--R & D; Job hunting; Cities; Wages & salaries; Labor market

Business indexing term: Subject: Hiring Disclosure Employees Employment Contractors Employers Job hunting Wages & salaries Labor market

Location: New York; United States--US; Colorado; California; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

Identifier / keyword: Netflix Inc; Banking And Financial Institutions; New York City; United States; Linkedin Corporation; Careers And Professions; California; Illinois; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Executive Compensation; Colorado; Government Contracts And Procurement; Baruch College; Appointments And Executive Changes; Books And Literature; Records And Achievements; Hiring And Promotion; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; IndeedCom; Citigroup Inc; Discrimination; Wages And Salaries; Women And Girls; Brown University; National Women's Law Center; Law And Legislation; Writing And Writers; Twitter; Workplace Environment; Education (K 12); Polls And Public Opinion; States (Us); Day Care Centers; Employee Fringe Benefits; Labor Department (Us); Labor And Jobs; Business; Colleges And Universities

Title: A Job With a Fair Salary? What Pay Transparency Laws Are Revealing.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 20, 2023

Dateline: 2023-06-20T22:50:13Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2827791370

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/job-with-fair-salary-what-pay-transparency-laws/docview/2827791370/se-2?accountid=2646 3

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Fallout Continues at Fox News as 2 of Carlson's Ex-Producers Exit: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Robertson, Katie

Publication info: Robertson, Katie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fallout-continues-at-fox-news-as-2-carlsons-ex/docview/2826582595/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The departures are the latest fallout since the network sidelined Mr. Carlson in April.
Two top producers for Tucker Carlson's former show have left Fox News, in the latest fallout from the network's benching of Mr. Carlson.
Alexander McCaskill, a senior producer and formerly the managing editor of "Tucker Carlson Tonight," wrote on Instagram that his last day at the network was Thursday. Thomas Fox, who was a senior editorial producer on that show, also departed this week, according to two people with knowledge of the moves.
One of the people said Mr. McCaskill and Mr. Fox had been in discussions to leave the network before Tuesday, when a chyron that appeared on Fox News called President Biden a "wannabe dictator."
In a video posted to Twitter on Thursday, Mr. Carlson said the chyron had been posted by a producer at the network who had since left. While he did not identify Mr. McCaskill by name, Mr. Carlson listed facts about the person, such as his length of time at the network, that matched Mr. McCaskill.
"Inside Fox, the women who run the network panicked" after the chyron was put up, Mr. Carlson said. "First they scolded the producer who put the banner on the screen. Less than 24 hours after that he resigned. He'd been at Fox for more than a decade."
A Fox News spokeswoman declined to comment on Mr. McCaskill's and Mr. Fox's departures. In a statement on Wednesday, the company said that "the chyron was taken down immediately and was addressed."
Mr. Fox declined to comment on his departure in a brief phone call on Friday. Mr. McCaskill did not respond to a request for comment.
The Daily Beast earlier reported Mr. McCaskill's exit, which he confirmed in a post on his private Instagram on Thursday. "Today was my last day at Fox," the post said. "It's been a wild 10 years and it was the best place I ever worked because of the great people I met. But the time has come. I asked them to let me go, and they finally did."
Mr. McCaskill and Mr. Fox are also both named defendants in a discrimination lawsuit against Fox brought by Abby Grossberg, a former producer at the company who worked for a short time on Mr. Carlson's show.
Ms. Grossberg has accused Mr. McCaskill and other producers on "Tucker Carlson Tonight" of creating a toxic and misogynistic workplace in which they harassed her, frequently used a crude pejorative to describe women and made antisemitic remarks.
Fox News and Ms. Grossberg are in settlement talks, a person with knowledge of the discussions said. CNN reported earlier on a possible deal between the two sides.
A lawyer for Ms. Grossberg and the Fox News spokeswoman declined to comment on any possible discussions.
Ms. Grossberg had also accused Fox News of coercing her into providing a misleading deposition in the blockbuster defamation lawsuit filed by Dominion Voting Systems. She has since dropped that case.
Days after Fox settled the Dominion suit for $ 787.5 million, Fox took Mr. Carlson off the air. The New York Times reported that Fox leaders had become increasingly concerned about the problems he posed for the network. Mr. Carlson is still under contract with Fox, which has demanded that he stop posting videos to Twitter.
A third top member of Mr. Carlson's team also left Fox recently. Charles Couger, who was the executive producer of "Tucker Carlson Originals," Mr. Carlson's show on the Fox Nation streaming service, left the network in May, according to his LinkedIn profile. Mr. Couger declined to comment.
Photograph Fox News took Tucker Carlson off the air in April, days after settling the Dominion suit for $ 787.5 million. Three top members of his team have since left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEIGH VOGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Defamation; Television news

Company / organization: Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/16/business/media/tucker-carlson-producers-leave-fox.html

Title: Fallout Continues at Fox News as 2 of Carlson's Ex-Producers Exit:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 17, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2826582595

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fallout-continues-at-fox-news-as-2-carlsons-ex/docview/2826582595/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Teenage Fan's Homage Becomes Movie Reality: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Aguilar, Carlos

Publication info: Aguilar, Carlos. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teenage-fans-homage-becomes-movie-reality/docview/2824588296/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Preston Mutanga created a shot-for-shot version of the trailer with animated Lego characters. Then the producers asked him to work on the movie.
Early in the thrill-packed sequel "Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse," the story takes a brief yet memorable detour into a dimension that resembles Lego building blocks and figures.
The clever and amusing scene, a tribute to "The Lego Movie," was not the work of seasoned animation artists, but that of a 14-year-old fan turned professional creator living in Toronto.
Preston Mutanga, the prodigious Minnesota-born son of immigrant parents from the Northwest Region of Cameroon, had shown a flair for creativity from a young age. Forgoing the instructions for a set of Lego blocks, he built cars with his own designs.
"I also used to make comics when I was younger," Mutanga said during a recent video interview. "Looking back at them now, they're not the greatest, I'm not going to lie, but it was good practice for telling stories."
In December, the teenager started a project that would change the course of his young ambitions. Using his father's old computers, Mutanga recreated the trailer for "Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse" shot for shot to look as if it belonged in a Lego world.
By that point, he had been honing his skills for several years making short computer-generated Lego videos. "My dad showed me this 3-D software called Blender and I instantly got hooked on it," he said. "I watched a lot of YouTube videos to teach myself certain stuff."
He shared his version of the trailer online. The quality of his self-taught craftsmanship quickly gained attention and reached Phil Lord and Christopher Miller, the directors of "The Lego Movie" and two of the writer-producers of "Spider-Verse."
After deciding to include a segment in a Lego universe, Christina Steinberg, another of the film's producers, contacted Mutanga to ask him if he wanted to animate it.
"We found out that it was a 14-year-old kid who made it and we were like, 'This looks incredibly sophisticated for a nonadult, nonprofessional to have made," Miller said on a video call. "It blew us all away, including some of the best animators in the world."
Mutanga's supportive parents, Theodore and Gisele Mutanga, were skeptical when the production first contacted them. Not long before, their son's YouTube channel had been hacked, so the couple was reasonably wary that a Hollywood studio was seeking their son's talent.
But after finding the movie's Toronto-based production designer, Patrick O'Keefe, on LinkedIn, and confirming that Sony Pictures Animation's offer was legitimate, Theodore Mutanga, a medical physicist, built his son a new computer and bought him a state-of-the-art graphics card so he could render his work much faster.
His mother, Gisele Mutanga, a public health instructor, said, "I know Preston has a gift that was given to him by God, and once we identified that he had that gift, all we could do as parents was to nurture it and let him fly."
Over several weeks, first during spring break and then after finishing his homework on school nights, Mutanga worked on the Lego sequence. Every other week, he would meet via video with Miller, who would check on his progress and provide detailed input.
For the young storyteller, accustomed to working alone with complete creative freedom, collaborating as part of a larger production provided eye-opening. "One new thing I learned was definitely the feedback aspect of it, like how much stuff actually gets changed from the beginning to the final product," Mutanga said.
Miller saw Mutanga's contribution to "Across the Spider-Verse" not only as a testament to the democratization of filmmaking, but also to the artist's perseverance: he dedicated intensive time and effort to animation, which is "not ever fast or easy to make," Miller said.
"'The Lego Movie' is inspired by people making films with Lego bricks at home," Lord said by video. "That's what made us want to make the movie. Then the idea in 'Spider Verse' is that a hero can come from anywhere. And here comes this heroic young person who's inspired by the movie that was inspired by people like him."
While Mutanga is still dedicated to his high school studies, his career goal of becoming a full-time animator and director feels more within reach than he or his parents might have imagined at this stage. "I adored the first movie and was so hyped for the second one, so getting to work with the people who actually made this masterpiece was honestly like a dream," he said.
Photograph Above, Preston Mutanga, whose all-Lego fan trailer for a new Spider-Man film caused the filmmakers to ask him to animate a scene for the film itself. Below, Spidey in the Lego dimension, from the scene Mutanga worked on. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA SONY PICTURES) This article appeared in print on page C2.

Subject: Video recordings; Animation

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/07/movies/spider-man-across-the-spider-verse-lego.html

Title: Teenage Fan's Homage Becomes Movie Reality:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 12, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2824588296

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teenage-fans-homage-becomes-movie-reality/docview/2824588296/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ex-State Senator Claims Win In Denver's Mayoral Race: [National Desk]

Author: Fortin, Jacey

Publication info: Fortin, Jacey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-state-senator-claims-win-denvers-mayoral-race/docview/2823392975/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Johnston, a former Colorado state senator, benefited from far more outside spending than his opponent, who conceded on Tuesday night.
Mike Johnston, a former Colorado state senator buoyed by millions of dollars in outside spending, declared victory on Tuesday night in Denver's mayoral election, beating out a candidate who had been vying to become the first woman to hold the office.
Ballots were still left to be counted in the runoff contest -- which is nonpartisan though both candidates are Democrats -- and the city said that the official results would not be released until later this month. But as of Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Johnston had about 55 percent of the vote. His opponent, Kelly Brough, a former head of the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce, had about 45 percent. She conceded on Tuesday night.
"We can build a city that is big enough keep all of us safe, to house all of us, to support all of us," Mr. Johnston said in a victory speech on Tuesday night. "That is our dream of Denver."
Mr. Johnston, 48, and Ms. Brough, 59, had emerged as the top contenders from a crowded field of 16 candidates in the April general election to replace Mayor Michael B. Hancock, a Democrat who has been in office for 12 years. Term limits prevented him from running again.
Both candidates had said that they wanted to make space for more affordable housing, invest in services for homeless people and improve diversity in police recruitment in Colorado's capital city. But Mr. Johnston appeared to have more support from left-leaning voters, and from wealthy donors outside the state.
Ms. Brough said in a speech that she had called Mr. Johnston to concede. "We set out to restore the promise of Denver," she said. "And I still believe in this campaign, and the work we did."
A handful of more progressive candidates had considerable support from voters before the April 4 election, but they seemed to sap each other's momentum as the first round of voting neared.
Tami Matthews, 53, a marketing director, said she had voted for Mr. Johnston in the runoff because he seemed like a creative politician who was more progressive than Ms. Brough. She said she liked his support for more regulations to address climate change, as well as his plans to build small communities of tiny homes for the city's homeless population.
Denver voters had been excited about the idea of having a woman as mayor, Ms. Matthews said. "But I think that there were so many other better women candidates," she added, mentioning progressive candidates who hadn't made it past the April election.
Still, she said she had voted for Mr. Johnston both times, even though she did not like the reports of his donations from out of state. "That does give me some heartburn," Ms. Matthews said.
In the 12 years under Mr. Hancock's administration, Denver has seen major population growth -- despite some losses during the coronavirus pandemic -- and many of the challenges that come with it. Housing costs have risen, and homelessness has gotten worse.
"Whoever wins I think will have, at least for a while, a fair mandate to make some pretty significant public policy shifts on these issues," Seth Masket, the director of the Center on American Politics at the University of Denver, said in an interview before the early results were in. "I think a lot of other mayors of similar-size cities will be looking at Denver, just to see what comes out of this."
Mr. Johnston -- a former teacher, principal and education adviser to President Barack Obama -- was first elected to the State Senate in 2009 and served until 2017, when he reached his term limit. Since then, he has run unsuccessfully both for governor and for the United States Senate.
More recently, he was the chief executive of Gary Community Ventures, an organization that combines philanthropy, investing and political funding. There, he played a leading role in advancing Proposition 123, an initiative to dedicate hundreds of millions of dollars annually to providing affordable housing. It was approved by Colorado voters last year.
Before serving as the chief executive of the city Chamber of Commerce, Ms. Brough was Denver's head of human resources, and she served as chief of staff for former Mayor John Hickenlooper, who is now a U.S. senator.
She was endorsed by Democratic leaders in the city and state, as well as the city's police union and its Republican Party. But endorsements from some of the progressive candidates who were edged out of the April election bolstered Mr. Johnston's chances in the runoff.
His campaign also benefited from far more outside spending than did Ms. Brough's, public records show.
Advancing Denver, a super PAC that supported Mr. Johnston but was not formally affiliated with his campaign, received more than $ 2 million from donors including Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn, and Michael Bloomberg, the billionaire former mayor of New York City.
Both men also supported Mr. Johnston's unsuccessful run for governor in 2018, The Colorado Sun reported.
A Better Denver, a super PAC that supported Ms. Brough's candidacy, was funded by donors including the National Association of Realtors, which spent more than $ 400,000.
Although Tuesday was Election Day, votes for the runoff contest have been rolling in since last month. That is because registered voters in Denver receive their ballots in the mail, giving them the option to send it back, drop it off or show up in person to cast a ballot on Election Day. Ms. Brough dropped off her ballot last week, and Mr. Johnston submitted his on Sunday.
Photograph Mike Johnston, 48, delivering his victory speech on Tuesday. He had about 55 percent of the vote against his opponent, Kelly Brough, 59, who would have been the first woman to lead the city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HYOUNG CHANG/THE DENVER POST, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A12.

Subject: Election results; Local elections; Mayors; Candidates; Voters; Affordable housing; Endorsements; Homeless people

Business indexing term: Subject: Affordable housing

Location: Colorado; United States--US

People: Johnston, Mike

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/07/us/elections/denver-mayor-mike-johnston.html

Title: Ex-State Senator Claims Win In Denver's Mayoral Race:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 8, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2823392975

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-state-senator-claims-win-denvers-mayoral-race/docview/2823392975/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Reflecting on a 'Succession' Bromance: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Soloski, Alexis

Publication info: Soloski, Alexis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reflecting-on-succession-bromance/docview/2822019190/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a joint interview Monday morning, Matthew Macfadyen and Nicholas Braun reflected on their characters' bond and their big finale slap fight. "It was real," Macfadyen said.
Sadomasochistic. Abusive. Codependent. These might all describe the deranged bromance between Tom Wambsgans, the cornfed basic, and Greg Hirsch, the leggy princeling of ATN, in "Succession."
But despite blackmail and ritual humiliation, this proved to be the most enduring and arguably the most loving relationship in the show, which wrapped up on Sunday night. (Spoilers follow.) So loving, in fact, that multiple fans have re-cut scenes of the pair scored to Taylor Swift's "You Belong With Me."
As the son-in-law (Matthew Macfadyen's Tom) and great-nephew (Nicholas Braun's Greg) of the billionaire Logan Roy (Brian Cox), these men were both insiders and outsiders, privy to the power of the Roys, but never quite of it. Their double act, however sadistic, provided many of the show's lighter moments. This duo, who called themselves the Disgusting Brothers, observed the drama while often remaining just beyond its reach.
In spite of that, or maybe because of it, the show and its creator, Jesse Armstrong, arranged happy endings of a kind for each, with Tom installed as the puppet chief executive of Waystar Royco and Greg as his lackey. (Certain fan theories had predicted this, including one that connected Tom's surname to that of an early-20th-century baseball player, though Braun and Macfadyen said they did not pay much attention to fan chatter.)
The morning after the finale, Macfadyen and Braun joined a video call -- Braun from Manhattan, Macfadyen from London -- to discuss the series, their friendship offscreen and on, and whether the show has given them a taste for high-end timepieces. Braun paused the call at the beginning so that he could maximize Macfadyen's presence on his screen.
"I just want to see his face bigger," Braun said affectionately.
These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Is this a good outcome for Tom, this new role as puppet C.E.O.? Has he won?
MATTHEW MACFADYEN I never thought of it in terms of winning. That's how it falls, I guess. The next day, there'll be a [expletive]storm. It goes on.
Is this what he wanted?
MACFADYEN You could make the argument that he wanted to have a happy marriage or maybe for Shiv [Tom's wife, played by Sarah Snook] to do it and him to be No. 2. He would have been happy with that, too. I genuinely don't know what he wants any more than I know what I want. He wants to shinny up the greasy pole, but I don't know how ruthless he is.
NICHOLAS BRAUN People sometimes ask, "What is Greg doing in there? What does he want? Why does he keep hanging around?" We weren't playing these big long game things.
Is this a good ending for Greg, in thrall to Tom forever at a greatly reduced salary?
BRAUN It's a good résumé builder: Put a big position on LinkedIn; get the headhunters involved for the better salary somewhere else.
Do you think he can leave Tom?
BRAUN For Greg, that's always in his mind. Like, "Do I need this? Do I need to feel this bad at work?" I also don't know if he's going to cut my salary. I think he could like triple it. Easily.
MACFADYEN You'll be head of dismissals.
BRAUN Chief H.R. officer. Walking down the hall, every office: "You're fired."
Why do you think Shiv sides with Tom over her brothers, Kendall and Roman?
MACFADYEN Maybe she doesn't choose Tom over her brothers. Maybe she just can't stomach her big brother. It's not a binary choice. She just looks at Kendall and thinks, "I can't." I don't think she made a rational decision. And then there's this beautiful stage direction that Jesse wrote in the script of Tom and Shiv in the car. He talks about two bombs being transported.
In that shot they hold hands, but not quite, she lays hers atop his. Was that also in the stage directions?
MACFADYEN I think it was. Tom offers a hand. She puts her hand on top. Tom and Shiv after all they've been through, it felt very chilly and weird and not triumphant on Tom's part at all. They're going to go home and who knows?
Maybe that's because it had to be Tom and Greg all along. Have you paid attention to the fans' shipping you?
MACFADYEN Not in any great depth.
BRAUN Only the Taylor Swift fan-cam. [To Macfadyen] The one that I sent to you yesterday. I think it's really well done.
Was there any kind of romance there? Any hint of eros?
MACFADYEN I don't think so. The fun of all that is what people project onto it. But we didn't play it like that. It's been so wonderful acting with Nick, the energy and the chemistry and all the rest of it. There's all kinds of stuff with Tom and Greg swirling around, which is up for grabs. But we're just playing the scene.
BRAUN It's just the joy of being private. These guys love to have secrets and secret conversations. There are moments where we would, like, smile at each other.
MACFADYEN That's part of being outsiders, and they've been like that from the beginning.
So during the powder room fight scene in the finale, you never did a take where you kissed at the end?
MACFADYEN No. That was really kind of horrible. Nick and I just thought, Oh, let's go for it. Let's hit each other. It was real.
BRAUN You want to pull it when you hit somebody. But when the camera is that close‌,‌ you can't. Like, I had to just straight up hit you. It's how you and I worked together, like, you're going to trust me and I'm going to trust you to do anything you want. And we're going to be OK at the end. There were some takes where we hit each other more times.
Greg and Tom were both proximal to the Roy family, but existed just beyond it. What was their role on the show?
MACFADYEN I'm sure there's a clever answer in terms of the dramatic narrative, like the fools in a Shakespeare play, but that would diminish them, because they're not just comic relief. But they're not the cold, hard, screwed-up Roys -- they haven't suffered at the hands of Logan like the siblings have. They've got a different energy.
BRAUN They didn't grow up in this dynamic of Logan batting them down and building them up and crushing them again. Structurally, you need some contrast because otherwise you're just in the most serious stuff. Greg just wants stupid things: a new suit, good shoes.
MACFADYEN I mean, the whole world of "Succession" is absurd. The corridors of power are absurd. Greg and Tom are on the broader end of that. Kendall is uber serious, hilarious in his seriousness. We dip into farce. But it's a mistake to think that they don't care -- they care just as much as the others. We played everything like life and death.
You've developed an offscreen friendship. Have you given yourselves a nickname, à la the Disgusting Brothers?
MACFADYEN No, no, we're much more sophisticated than that.
Do you have favorite Tom and Greg scenes?
MACFADYEN Too many. They're all lovely. I loved all the sequence in the panic room, and then afterward when you try and blackmail me. Often it's the tiny little moments, the little looks.
BRAUN A lot of times we will be breaking [into laughter] in the background.
MACFADYEN We just ruin other people's work. It's really unprofessional, actually.
BRAUN If you ever see the two of us looking up at the ceiling together or turning very quickly to a wall in the background, it's probably because we're breaking.
MACFADYEN There were times when you and I did walk off set with this weird shame. Like we'd let everybody down and let ourselves down because something was so funny.
Shame can be healthy. Were your characters capable of shame? Did they ever feel bad about subverting democracy?
MACFADYEN No, they would have blamed somebody else.
BRAUN They have been desensitized, like everybody in this world. We're all a bit numb to caring deeply about things. So much about being in this world for Tom and Greg is just keeping your job. You just do the next thing to keep the job.
The show stakes an ambivalent position when it comes to wealth and class. Did working on it give you a taste for watches and penthouses and custom suiting or the opposite?
MACFADYEN Not really. A lot of the locations were these extraordinary properties, and it's oddly comforting, because you think, I don't want this.
BRAUN You go inside some of the sets, like you think, the yacht's going to be amazing. And it's just a place, kind of gaudy. That yacht in particular was kind of ugly inside and that was true of a lot of the hotel rooms and mansions and castles.
Nick, I love that this has made you a yacht critic. And Matthew, that does seem to be a very nice watch you're wearing.
MACFADYEN Yeah, I've always been into watches.
So you can't blame 'Succession'?
BRAUN I probably can. I bought my first Rolex from knowing a little bit about Rolexes on the show. My character bought the Submariner Rolex. That started me up.
MACFADYEN I was quite a good watch consigliere to you. I tried.
Why do you think that viewers became so obsessed with a show about awful privileged people?
MACFADYEN I never thought it was about the privilege or the money, that's the least interesting thing about it. It's a family. It's the love or the lack of love and trust and power. The lack of love and support from the patriarch to the siblings, is the engine of everything.
BRAUN People say to me, "I'm the Shiv in my family." "I'm Kendall; our dad is Logan." A family I always think about is this Korean family that owns a sandwich shop in the East Village. I went in for a sandwich one night and the cashier was like, "Oh, my God, 'Succession'! Wow. Oh, my God, I love you. My dad, he's Logan." His dad was packing the freezer and didn't even look up. That's a huge thing. People love to see themselves in this show.
Finally, as someone who loves the episode with the Senate hearing when Tom's emails are read aloud, I have to ask, what is the recipe for a perfect Tomlette?
MACFADYEN Eggs and shame.
Photograph Top, from left, Matthew Macfadyen, Brian Cox and Nicholas Braun in the drama "Succession." Above right, Braun's Greg and Macfadyen's Tom are relatives of the billionaire Logan Roy, played by Cox. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MACALL B. POLAY/HBO) This article appeared in print on page AR9.

People: Swift, Taylor; Macfadyen, Matthew

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/29/arts/television/succession-matthew-macfadyen-nicholas-braun-tom-and-greg.html

Title: Reflecting on a 'Succession' Bromance:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 4, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2822019190

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reflecting-on-succession-bromance/docview/2822019190/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Alabama Basketball Manager Says He, Not Player, Was at Fatal Shooting: [Sports Desk]

Author: Eder, Steve

Publication info: Eder, Steve. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alabama-basketball-manager-says-he-not-player-was/docview/2821781072/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A freshman player sued The Times after it placed him at a crime scene. The newspaper will correct its coverage.
A student manager of Alabama's men's basketball team said Friday that he had been a passenger in the car of a star player, Brandon Miller, during a January shooting in Tuscaloosa. One person was killed and Mr. Miller's car was hit by stray bullets in the episode, which involved multiple vehicles.
The manager, Cooper Lee, acknowledged his presence at the crime scene to The New York Times after another player, Kai Spears, sued the newspaper this week for having reported in March that he had been in Mr. Miller's car when its windshield was struck by bullets.
Mr. Spears has denied being in the car and said in the lawsuit that being falsely identified as the passenger "will forever label him as a person associated with a murder." The lawsuit, which seeks damages for defamation and invasion of privacy, disclosed for the first time that Mr. Lee had gotten into Mr. Miller's car at 1:40 a.m. on Jan. 15, just minutes before the shooting.
"I can confirm that I was the passenger in Brandon Miller's car at the time of the shooting," Mr. Lee, 21, said in an email to The Times. Mr. Lee, who is not accused of wrongdoing, declined to comment further beyond confirming that Mr. Spears was not in the car. His LinkedIn profile lists him as a hospitality and sports management major at the university.
A spokeswoman for The Times, Danielle Rhoades Ha, said the article would be corrected.
"We have a longstanding policy of correcting errors," she said in a statement. "Based on information in the affidavit and new reporting by our newsroom, we believe our original story was not accurate and plan to append an editor's note to the story."
Two people have been charged with capital murder stemming from the shooting: Darius Miles, who began the season on the team, and his friend Michael Davis, who was accused of firing the fatal shots that killed Jamea Harris, 23, a passenger in a second car. Mr. Miles pleaded not guilty; Mr. Davis is seeking youthful-offender status.
Mr. Miller, likely to be a top pick in the N.B.A. draft, and Mr. Lee were not harmed and have not been implicated in the incident, which unfolded as bars emptied out along the Strip, a gathering spot near campus along University Boulevard.
Ms. Harris's killing has garnered widespread attention, coming at a time when the University of Alabama team, the Crimson Tide, was among the top-ranked in the country and contending for a national championship. Alabama's handling of the case has been closely examined in the months since, as players present at the crime scene continued to suit up for games while the authorities investigated.
Two months after the episode, on March 15, The Times reported that Mr. Spears, who was a freshman walk-on, had been in Mr. Miller's car during the shooting. The identity of Mr. Miller's passenger was attributed by The Times to a person familiar with the investigation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive matters.
In a brief locker-room interview then, Mr. Spears was quoted by The Times as saying, "I'm sorry, I'm not going to be able to speak about that."
But after the article published online, Mr. Spears, his family and the university said the account was inaccurate, and The Times updated the article to reflect their statements.
An Alabama athletics spokeswoman said at the time that "based on the information we have, there were no current student-athletes present at the scene other than Brandon Miller and Jaden Bradley," a player who was in a third car near the shooting. The university's athletic director, Greg Byrne, said in a statement that it was not true that Mr. Spears was present.
And Mr. Spears's father, Christian Spears, who works at Marshall University as athletic director, said in a statement on Marshall's athletic website that he was "disappointed in the irresponsible and demonstrably false reporting by the NY Times."
The lawsuit, filed on Wednesday in federal court in Alabama, said that lawyers for Mr. Spears had sought a retraction from The Times on March 20 but the newspaper did not grant the request.
Mr. Spears was "wrongfully thrust into nationwide news," leading to emotional distress for being linked to a "criminal event," the suit states.
The suit provided the first public accounting of Mr. Spears's whereabouts during the shooting, including a sworn statement from a visiting high school friend and exchanges from FaceTime video calls with Mr. Bradley, who has since transferred to the University of Arizona.
After Alabama's win against Louisiana State on Jan. 14, Mr. Spears went to eat at a Waffle House with two high school friends visiting from Clemson University before returning to his dorm to get ready for a night out, which included dining with Mr. Miller at a barbecue restaurant near the Strip, according to the suit and the sworn statement from the friend, Dylan Serafini.
At the barbecue restaurant, Mr. Spears had a FaceTime call with Mr. Bradley, who, along with Mr. Miller, asked Mr. Spears and his friends if they wanted to stay out. They declined because of the late hour, and Mr. Spears and his high school friends headed home, while Mr. Miller got into his car with the team manager, Mr. Lee, the suit says.
Within minutes, Mr. Spears was back on FaceTime with Mr. Miller and Mr. Bradley to ask where they ended up going, the suit says. He learned then that shots had been fired at the windshield of Mr. Miller's car and the young men were "frantic."
"Jaden Bradley was upset and shows Kai on FaceTime Brandon Miller's windshield with bullet holes and tells Kai Spears he must call him later," Mr. Serafini said in his sworn statement.
On Friday, the Alabama athletic department referred to their statement in March in which the athletic director said both Mr. Bradley and Mr. Miller were cooperating witnesses and had not been charged with any offense or violated any university policy.
Julie Tate contributed research.
Julie Tate contributed research.
Photograph Alabama players before a January game days after a shooting shocked the university community. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN AMIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS); The shooting occurred as bars emptied out along the Strip, a gathering spot on University Boulevard in Tuscaloosa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY COSBY JR./TUSCALOOSA NEWS, VIA USA TODAY NETWORK) This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: Crime scenes; Shootings; Athletic directors; Murders & murder attempts; High school basketball

Location: Alabama; United States--US

People: Miller, Brandon

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/02/sports/ncaabasketball/shooting-alabama.html

Title: Alabama Basketball Manager Says He, Not Player, Was at Fatal Shooting:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 3, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821781072

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alabama-basketball-manager-says-he-not-player-was/docview/2821781072/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Mar-a-Lago Workers Are Said to Be Questioned About Security Footage: [National Desk]

Author: Feuer, Alan; Haberman, Maggie; Protess, Ben

Publication info: Feuer, Alan; Haberman, Maggie; Protess, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mar-lago-workers-are-said-be-questioned-about/docview/2821251683/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Investigators are trying to determine if there was any attempt to obstruct them from getting access to footage from a security camera near the room where classified material was stored.
For the past six months, prosecutors working for the special counsel Jack Smith have sought to determine whether former President Donald J. Trump obstructed the government's efforts to retrieve a trove of classified documents he took from the White House.
More recently, investigators also appear to be pursuing a related question: whether Mr. Trump and some of his aides sought to interfere with the government's attempt to obtain security camera footage from Mar-a-Lago that could shed light on how those documents were stored and who had access to them.
The search for answers on this second issue has taken investigators deep into the bowels of Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump's private club and residence in Florida, as they pose questions to an expanding cast of low-level workers at the compound, according to people familiar with the matter. Some of the workers played a role in either securing boxes of material in a storage room at Mar-a-Lago or maintaining video footage from a security camera that was mounted outside the room.
Two weeks ago, the latest of these employees, an information technology worker named Yuscil Taveras, appeared before a grand jury in Washington, according to two people familiar with the matter.
Mr. Taveras was asked questions about his dealings with two other Trump employees: Walt Nauta, a longtime aide to Mr. Trump who served as one of his valets in the White House, and Carlos Deoliveira, described by one person familiar with the events as the head of maintenance at Mar-a-Lago.
Phone records show that Mr. Deoliveira called Mr. Taveras last summer, and prosecutors wanted to know why. The call caught the government's attention because it was placed shortly after prosecutors issued a subpoena to Mr. Trump's company, the Trump Organization, demanding the footage from the surveillance camera near the storage room.
The call also occurred just weeks after Mr. Deoliveira helped Mr. Nauta move boxes of documents into the storage room -- the same room that Mr. Deoliveira at one point fitted with a lock. The movement of the boxes into the room took place at another key moment: on the day before prosecutors descended on Mar-a-Lago for a meeting with Mr. Trump's lawyers intended to get him to comply with a demand to return all classified documents.
The Trump Organization ultimately turned over the surveillance tapes, but Mr. Smith's prosecutors appear to be scrutinizing whether someone in Mr. Trump's orbit tried to limit the amount of footage produced to the government.
They asked Mr. Taveras an open-ended question about if anyone had queried him about whether footage from the surveillance system could be deleted.
It remains unclear what investigators learned from questioning Mr. Taveras in front of the grand jury and whether they were able to make any headway in their efforts to determine if steps had been taken to interfere with the handing over of the surveillance tapes.
But the focus on the tapes is the latest effort by Mr. Smith to determine whether Mr. Trump or his aides engaged in any sort of obstructive behavior. Prosecutors are examining whether the former president has in effect been playing games with government officials in different agencies for more than a year -- including the Justice Department, which issued a subpoena for all classified documents in Mr. Trump's possession last May, and the National Archives, which sought to retrieve reams of presidential records from Mr. Trump that he held onto after leaving office, some of which included classified material.
There is no indication that Mr. Taveras is a subject of Mr. Smith's investigation. His lawyer, Stanley Woodward Jr., declined to comment.
Mr. Deoliveira's lawyer, John Irving, did not respond to a message seeking comment.
All three men -- Mr. Taveras, Mr. Deoliveira and Mr. Nauta -- have been questioned extensively by prosecutors over their roles in handling the boxes and the tapes. Mr. Trump's aides maintain that nothing nefarious took place, and that activities that prosecutors are treating with suspicion were simply part of efforts to comply with the subpoenas or were routine conversations that happened without the participants knowing in some cases about the existence of the subpoenas issued by the Justice Department for the security footage and for the classified documents in Mr. Trump's possession.
Nonetheless, one person briefed on the events said the interactions concerning the security tapes were enough to arouse suspicion among Mr. Smith's investigators. Moreover, people briefed on witness interviews say, it has become clear that Mr. Smith views a number of people connected to Mr. Trump with skepticism.
Both Mr. Irving and the lawyer representing Mr. Nauta and Mr. Taveras, Mr. Woodward, are being paid by Mr. Trump's political action committee, Save America, which itself has been under scrutiny by Mr. Smith's team. Prosecutors are looking into whether the group raised money from donors by claiming it would be earmarked for legal challenges to the 2020 election, but that Mr. Trump's aides knew he had lost.
The Washington Post reported on Tuesday about a conversation between an unnamed I.T. worker and an unnamed maintenance worker at Mar-a-Lago.
Mr. Taveras's grand jury appearance was not the first time that Mr. Smith's team has focused on the question of how the security tapes at Mar-a-Lago were handled. Prosecutors have also issued subpoenas to Matthew Calamari Sr. and his son, Matthew Calamari Jr., who have long overseen security issues for the Trump Organization.
The prosecutors have sent separate subpoenas to the company seeking surveillance footage from Mar-a-Lago, people with knowledge of the matter said. The first such subpoena was issued last June, and since then, prosecutors have sent several more subpoenas for a wider array of footage, one person with knowledge of the matter said.
The prosecutors appear to have sought the footage in order to get a clearer picture of the movement of the boxes of documents at Mar-a-Lago. But there were gaps in the footage, the person said, and the prosecutors have also been examining whether someone intentionally stopped the tape or if technological issues caused the gap.
The prosecutors have also subpoenaed a software company that handles all of the surveillance footage for the Trump Organization, including at Mar-a-Lago, The New York Times previously reported.
The attempts by Mr. Smith's team to get to the bottom of what was happening with the boxes and the tapes reflect a fundamental challenge that prosecutors have faced since the start of the documents investigation: Mr. Trump's post-presidential world at Mar-a-Lago is as much of a mishmash of loyalists and other officials as his chaotic White House was, and those who surround him most at his private club are employees with whom he has developed direct personal relationships over years.
Mr. Nauta was a military aide serving as a valet in the Trump White House, requiring a level of intimate proximity to the president that few staff members develop. After the Trump administration ended, Mr. Nauta retired from the military and went to work for Mr. Trump directly. And Mr. Deoliveira once parked cars at the club, a Trump aide said.
Before working on the information systems at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Taveras managed them at the Trump International Hotel and Tower and at the Trump SoHo Hotel, according to his LinkedIn page.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Cameras; Classified information; Subpoenas

People: Calamari, Matthew

Company / organization: Name: Trump Organization; NAICS: 237210, 531210; Name: Mar-a-Lago Club; NAICS: 713910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/31/us/politics/security-footage-trump-documents.html

Title: Mar-a-Lago Workers Are Said to Be Questioned About Security Footage:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 1, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2821251683

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mar-lago-workers-are-said-be-questioned-about/docview/2821251683/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 1, 2023

Last updated: 2024-10-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Man Charged In the Killing Of an Official In New Jersey: [National Desk]

Author: Shanahan, Ed

Publication info: Shanahan, Ed. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-charged-killing-official-new-jersey/docview/2820873844/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Eunice Dwumfour, the first Black person elected to office in Sayreville, N.J., was killed as she sat in her car outside her home. She and the man who was arrested were connected through their church.
A 28-year-old Virginia man was charged with murder on Tuesday in the fatal shooting of a New Jersey councilwoman, Eunice Dwumfour, in February, the authorities said. Evidence uncovered by investigators indicated that the two knew each other, officials said.
The man, Rashid Ali Bynum, of Portsmouth, Va., was taken into custody in Chesapeake City, Va., Tuesday morning and was awaiting extradition, Yolanda Ciccone, the Middlesex County, N.J., prosecutor, said at a news conference. Mr. Bynum was charged with first-degree murder and two weapons counts, Ms. Ciccone said. It was not clear whether he had a lawyer.
Ms. Dwumfour, 30, had a number associated with Mr. Bynum listed in her cellphone contacts as "FCF," an abbreviation for Fire Congress Fellowship, according to Ms. Ciccone. Mr. Bynum, Ms. Ciccone said, was a member of the fellowship, which is affiliated with Ms. Dwumfour's church, Champions Royal Assembly in Newark, an offshoot of a megachurch based in Nigeria.
Federal tax filings describe Fire Congress Fellowship as a Bible study group, identify Ms. Dwumfour as its longtime treasurer and list its office at an address in Parlin, an unincorporated section of Sayreville, N.J., that is a two-minute drive from where the fatal shooting occurred.
Ms. Ciccone did not offer a motive for the killing. She said the investigation was continuing and declined to take questions. She was joined at the news conference by other law enforcement officials; Ms. Dwumfour's father and sister; and a minister from Ms. Dwumfour's parents' church.
John Wisniewski, a lawyer for Ms. Dwumfour's family, said they were "relieved to know that somebody was being charged and going to be held accountable." But because they did not know anything about Mr. Bynum or what might have motivated him, they had a number of questions, he said.
"They're really struggling with the why," Mr. Wisniewski said.
Ms. Dwumfour was shot while she was in her car outside the complex of apartment buildings and duplexes where she lived in Parlin just before 7:30 p.m. on Feb. 1, the authorities said.
The car rolled down a steep incline before crashing into two cars at the bottom of the hill, the police said. Officers responding to reports of a shooting found Ms. Dwumfour with several gunshot wounds, and she was pronounced dead at the scene, the authorities said.
At the news conference, Ms. Ciccone described some of the evidence that led to Mr. Bynum's arrest, including security video from the murder scene, location data from his cellphone and electronic toll information that traced his route from Virginia to New Jersey and back.
Kennedy O'Brien, a former longtime Sayreville mayor, said the scenario laid out by the authorities indicated that the killing was an "assassination of a young woman who had an 11-year-old daughter" whom she was raising on her own.
"I pray to God that she is going to be OK," Mr. O'Brien said of Ms. Dwumfour's daughter.
Ms Dwumfour's family is from Ghana. She was married last year to a leader of her church, Champions Royal Assembly, a congregation based in Nigeria, according to messages she and her husband, Eze Kings, posted on Facebook.
Ms. Dwumfour graduated from Newark public schools and received a bachelor's degree in women's studies from William Paterson University of New Jersey in 2017. Her career included jobs as a business analyst and professional scrum master, a type of project manager, according to a LinkedIn profile that was active at the time of her death.
A Republican, Ms. Dwumfour was in her first three-year term as a Sayreville councilwoman at the time of her death, having narrowly defeated an incumbent Democrat to win her seat in 2021. She was the first Black person ever elected to office in Sayreville.
In a statement about her campaign posted on the Sayreville Republican Party's website, she said she loved the borough, which has a population of about 45,000 and is about 30 miles south of Manhattan in Middlesex County, and wanted to help improve the lives of its residents.
"I am fully dedicated to building a better, stronger Sayreville," she wrote. "And with your support, we can create a brighter future for our wonderful town."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Press conferences; Shootings; Murders & murder attempts; Assassinations & assassination attempts; Personal profiles

Location: United States--US; Virginia; Nigeria; New Jersey

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/30/nyregion/eunice-dwumfour-killing-arrest-nj.html

Title: Man Charged In the Killing Of an Official In New Jersey:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 31, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2820873844

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-charged-killing-official-new-jersey/docview/2820873844/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Entrepreneur Is on Mission To Show A.I. Can Do Good: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/entrepreneur-is-on-mission-show-i-can-do-good/docview/2819936229/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Reid Hoffman, billionaire entrepreneur and venture capital investor, is worried about artificial intelligence -- but not for the doomsday reasons making headlines. Instead, he worries the doomsday headlines are too negative.
So in recent months, Mr. Hoffman has engaged in an aggressive thought-leadership regimen to extol the virtues of A.I. He has done so in blog posts, television interviews and fireside chats. He has spoken to government officials around the world. He hosts three podcasts and a YouTube channel. And in March, he published a book, "Impromptu," co-written with the A.I. tool GPT-4.
It's all part of the land grab for public opinion around A.I. in preparation for when the initial burst of fear and hype over the technology settles into a coherent debate. Sides will be chosen, regulation will be proposed, and tech tools will become politicized. For now, industry leaders like Mr. Hoffman are trying to nudge the terms of the discussion in their favor, even as public concerns only seem to grow.
"I'm beating the positive drum very loudly, and I'm doing so deliberately," he said.
Few are as intertwined in so many facets of the fast-moving industry as Mr. Hoffman. The 55-year-old sits on the boards of 11 tech companies including Microsoft, which has gone all in on A.I., and eight nonprofits. His venture capital firm, Greylock Partners, has backed at least 37 A.I. companies. He was among the first investors in OpenAI, the most prominent A.I. start-up, and recently left its board. He also helped found Inflection AI, an A.I. chatbot start-up that has raised at least $ 225 million.
And then there is his more abstract goal of "elevating humanity," or helping people improve their circumstances, a concept he relays in an affable, matter-of-fact manner. Mr. Hoffman believes A.I. is critical to that mission and as examples points to its potential to transform areas like health care -- "giving everyone a medical assistant"; and education -- "giving everyone a tutor."
"That's part of the responsibility that we should be thinking about here," he said.
Mr. Hoffman is among a small group of interconnected tech executives leading the A.I. charge, many of whom also led the last internet boom. He is a member of the "PayPal Mafia" of former PayPal executives that includes Elon Musk and Peter Thiel. The latter two backed DeepMind, an A.I. start-up that Google bought, and all three were early backers of OpenAI. Jessica Livingston, a founder of the start-up incubator Y Combinator, also put money into OpenAI; Sam Altman, OpenAI's chief executive, was previously president of Y Combinator.
Mr. Musk has now started his own A.I. company, X.AI. Mr. Thiel's venture firm, Founders Fund, has backed more than 70 A.I. companies, including OpenAI, according to PitchBook, which tracks start-up investments. Mr. Altman has invested in several A.I. start-ups on top of running OpenAI, which itself has invested in seven A.I. start-ups through its start-up fund. And Y Combinator's latest batch of start-ups included 78 focused on A.I., nearly double its last group.
The tech leaders differ on A.I.'s risks and opportunities and have been loudly promoting their takes in the marketplace of ideas.
Mr. Musk recently warned of A.I.'s dangers on Bill Maher's show and in a sit-down with Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York. Mr. Hoffman has explained the technology's potential to Vice President Kamala Harris, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg. Last week, Mr. Altman said in a congressional hearing that "the benefits of the tools we have deployed so far vastly outweigh the risks."
In Mr. Hoffman's view, warnings about A.I.'s existential risk to humanity overstate what the technology can do. And he believes that other potential issues caused by A.I. -- job loss, destruction of democracy, disruption of the economy -- have an obvious fix: more technology.
"The solutions live in the future, not by enshrining the past," he said.
That's a tough pitch to a public that has seen tech's harmful effects over the last decade, including social media misinformation and autonomous vehicle crashes. And this time, the risks are even larger, said Oded Netzer, a professor at Columbia Business School.
"It's not just the risks, it's how fast they are moving," Mr. Netzer said of tech companies' handling of A.I. "I don't think we can hope or trust that the industry will regulate itself."
Mr. Hoffman's pro-A.I. campaign, he said, is meant to foster trust where it's broken. "It's not to say that there won't be some harms in some areas," he said. "The question is could we learn and iterate to a much better state?"
Mr. Hoffman has been thinking about that question since he studied symbolic systems at Stanford University in the late 1980s. There, he imagined how A.I. would facilitate "our Promethean moment," he said in a YouTube video from March. "We can make these new things and we can journey with them."
After working at PayPal and co-founding LinkedIn, the professional social network, in 2002, Mr. Hoffman began investing in start-ups including Nauto, Nuro and Aurora Innovation, all focused on applying A.I. tech to transportation. He also joined an A.I. ethics committee at DeepMind.
Mustafa Suleyman, DeepMind's co-founder, said Mr. Hoffman differed from other venture capitalists in that his primary motivation was doing good in the world.
"How can we be in service of humanity? He asked that question all the time," Mr. Suleyman said.
When Mr. Suleyman began working on his latest start-up, Inflection AI, he found Mr. Hoffman's strategic advice to be so useful that he asked him to help found the company. Greylock invested in the start-up last year.
Mr. Hoffman was also there in OpenAI's early days. At an Italian restaurant in San Jose, Calif., in 2015, he met with Mr. Musk and Mr. Altman to discuss the beginnings of the company, which has a mission of ensuring that the most powerful A.I. "benefits all of humanity."
Several years later, when OpenAI was thinking about corporate partnerships, Mr. Hoffman said he encouraged Mr. Altman to meet with Microsoft, which had bought LinkedIn in 2016.
Mr. Altman said he was initially anxious that Microsoft, a behemoth with a duty to prioritize its shareholders, might not take seriously OpenAI's mission and unusual structure of capping its profits. In any large, complicated deal, Mr. Altman said, "everyone's anxious about, 'How is this really going to work?"'
Mr. Hoffman helped smooth things out. He talked Mr. Altman through various concerns while wearing metaphorical "hats" as an OpenAI board member, a Microsoft board member, and as himself.
"You have to be really clear about which hat you're talking with," Mr. Hoffman said.
Mr. Altman said Mr. Hoffman helped OpenAI "model Microsoft and think about what they'd care about, what they'd be good at, what they'd be bad at, and similar to them for us."
In 2019, OpenAI and Microsoft struck a $ 1 billion agreement, which has propelled them into a leading position today. (To avoid a conflict of interest, Mr. Hoffman was not part of the negotiations and abstained from voting to approve the deal on each board.)
A little over a year ago, as Mr. Hoffman saw the progress OpenAI was making on its GPT-3 language model, he had another Promethean moment. He immediately flipped an A.I. switch on nearly everything he worked on, including Greylock's new investments and existing start-ups as well as his podcast, book and discussions with government officials.
"It was basically like, 'If it's not this, it better be something that's absolutely critical for society,"' he said.
OpenAI released a chatbot, ChatGPT, in November, which became a sensation. One Greylock investment, Tome, integrated OpenAI's GPT-3 technology into its "storytelling" software immediately after. The number of Tome users skyrocketed to six million from a few thousand teams, said Keith Peiris, Tome's chief executive.
Mr. Hoffman said his approach was shaped, in part, by his access to "extremely high-quality information flows," Some is through his business relationships with Microsoft, OpenAI and others. Some is through various philanthropies, like Stanford's A.I. center.
And some is through his political connections. He has poured millions of dollars into Democratic campaigns and political action committees. Barack Obama is a friend, he said.
For now, he's using his influence to paint a picture of A.I.-driven progress. Tech insiders cheer on his cheerleading. The rest of the world is more skeptical. A recent survey conducted by Reuters and Ipsos showed that 61 percent of Americans believe A.I. could be a threat to humanity.
Mr. Hoffman brushes off those fears as overblown. He expects that the more tangible problems facing A.I., including its tendency to spit out incorrect information, will be worked out as tech companies upgrade their systems and deploy them to help.
Looking ahead, he said, there will be more investments, more podcasts, more conversations with government officials and more work on Inflection AI. The way to navigate A.I.'s risks, he stressed, is by steering the world toward the positives.
"I'm a tech optimist, not a tech utopian," he said.
Cade Metz contributed reporting.
Cade Metz contributed reporting.
Photograph Reid Hoffman, top, is a member of the so-called "PayPal Mafia" of former PayPal executives, which includes Peter Thiel and Elon Musk, both shown above in a photo from 2000. Mustafa Suleyman, left, the co-founder and C.E.O. of Inflection AI, says Mr. Hoffman is motivated to do good in the world, unlike some other venture capitalists. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLARA MOKRI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Leadership; Startups; Public officials; Chatbots; Social networks; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Startups Social networks Venture capital

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Google DeepMind; NAICS: 513210; Name: Y Combinator; NAICS: 523910; Name: LinkedIn Co rp; NAICS: 518210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/25/technology/reid-hoffman-artificial-intelligence.html

Title: Entrepreneur Is on Mission To Show A.I. Can Do Good:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 29, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819936229

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/entrepreneur-is-on-mission-show-i-can-do-good/docview/2819936229/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2817899838/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: TECHNOLOGY
Waymo and Uber Team
On Robotaxis in Phoenix
The self-driving car pioneer Waymo is teaming up with Uber in the Phoenix area to transport passengers and deliver food in robotic cars that triggered a bitter technological dispute between the two companies.
The partnership announced Tuesday provides Waymo with another avenue to expand a robotaxi service that it has been running in the Phoenix area since late 2020 while competing to attract passengers from Uber cars that still depend on humans who receive portion of the fares.
Waymo is making its driverless vehicles available to Uber in Phoenix five years after the two companies spent millions of dollars battling each other in court. The showdown culminated in Uber agreeing to a $ 245 million settlement to resolve a lawsuit alleging that the former Uber C.E.O., Travis Kalanick, conspired with a former Google engineer, Anthony Levandowski, to steal Waymo's self-driving car technology. ASSOCIATED PRESS
ENTERTAINMENT
Netflix to Charge $ 8 More
For Sharing Password
Netflix on Tuesday outlined how it intends to crack down on the rampant sharing of account passwords, its latest bid to reel in more subscribers to its video streaming service as its growth slows.
To combat password sharing, Netflix said it will limit U.S. viewership of its programming to people living in the same household. Those who subscribe to Netflix's standard or premium plans -- which cost $ 15.50 to $ 20 a month -- will be able to allow another person living outside their household to use their password for an additional $ 8 a month, a $ 2 discount from the company's basic plan.
Without providing details how it authenticates subscriber identities or accounts, Netflix assured that everyone living in the same household of a U.S. customer will still be able to stream TV series and movies "wherever they are -- at home, on the go, on holiday." The company based in Los Gatos, Calif., has roughly 70 million U.S. account holders.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
AUTOMOTIVE
Ford Reverses Course
On AM Radio Removal
Owners of new Ford vehicles will be able to tune in to AM radio in their cars, trucks and SUVs after all.
Jim Farley, the chief executive, wrote in social media postings on Tuesday that the company is reversing a decision to scrub the band after speaking with government policy leaders who are concerned about keeping emergency alerts that often are sounded on AM stations.
"We've decided to include it on all 2024 Ford and Lincoln vehicles," Mr. Farley wrote on Twitter and LinkedIn. "For any owners of Ford's EVs without AM broadcast capability, we'll offer a software update" to restore it.
The move came after a bipartisan group of federal lawmakers introduced a bill calling on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require AM in new vehicles at no additional cost.
They noted AM's historic role in transmitting vital information during emergencies, such as natural disasters, especially to rural areas. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD A. BROOKS/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Automobiles; Autonomous vehicles

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/23/business/24bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 24, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2817899838

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2817899838/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Uber's D.E.I. Chief Placed On Leave After an Uproar: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Browning, Kellen

Publication info: Browning, Kellen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ubers-d-e-i-chief-placed-on-leave-after-uproar/docview/2816695754/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The executive hosted sessions about race and being a white woman that were titled "Don't Call Me Karen," prompting an employee uproar.
Uber has placed its longtime head of diversity, equity and inclusion on leave after workers complained that an employee event she moderated, titled "Don't Call Me Karen," was insensitive to people of color.
Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber's chief executive, and Nikki Krishnamurthy, the chief people officer, last week asked Bo Young Lee, the head of diversity, "to step back and take a leave of absence while we determine next steps," according to an email on Thursday from Ms. Krishnamurthy to some employees that was viewed by The New York Times.
"We have heard that many of you are in pain and upset by yesterday's Moving Forward session," the email said. "While it was meant to be a dialogue, it's obvious that those who attended did not feel heard."
Employees' concerns centered on a pair of events, one last month and another last Wednesday, that were billed as "diving into the spectrum of the American white woman's experience" and hearing from white women who work at Uber, with a focus on "the 'Karen' persona." They were intended to be an "open and honest conversation about race," according to the invitation.
But workers instead felt that they were being lectured on the difficulties experienced by white women and why "Karen" was a derogatory term and that Ms. Lee was dismissive of their concerns, according to messages sent on Slack, a workplace messaging tool, that were viewed by The Times.
The term Karen has become slang for a white woman with a sense of entitlement who often complains to a manager and reports Black people and other racial minorities to the authorities. Employees felt the event organizers were minimizing racism and the harm white people can inflict on people of color by focusing on how "Karen" is a hurtful word, according to the messages and an employee who attended the events. A prominent "Karen" incident occurred in 2020, when Amy Cooper, a white woman, called 911 after a Black man bird-watching in New York's Central Park asked her to leash her dog.
The concerns raised about the events underscored the difficulties that companies face as they navigate subjects of race and identity that have become increasingly hot-button issues in Silicon Valley and beyond. Cultural clashes over race and L.G.B.T.Q. rights have been thrust to the forefront of workplaces in recent years, including the renewed attention to discrimination in company hiring practices and the feud between Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and Disney over a state law that limits classroom instruction about gender identity and sexual orientation.
At Uber, the incident was also a rare case of employee dissent under Mr. Khosrowshahi, who has shepherded the company away from the aggressive, chaotic culture that pervaded under the former chief executive, Travis Kalanick. Mr. Khosrowshahi's efforts included increased diversity initiatives under Ms. Lee, who has led the effort since 2018. Before joining Uber, she held similar roles at the financial services firm Marsh McLennan and other companies, according to her LinkedIn profile.
"I can confirm that Bo is currently on a leave of absence," Noah Edwardsen, an Uber spokesman, said in a statement. Ms. Lee did not respond to a request for comment.
The first of the two Don't Call Me Karen events, in April, was part of a series called Moving Forward -- discussions about race and the experiences of underrepresented groups that sprung up in the aftermath of the Black Lives Matter protests in 2020.
Several weeks after that first event, a Black woman asked during an Uber all-hands meeting how the company would prevent "tone-deaf, offensive and triggering conversations" from becoming a part of its diversity initiatives.
Ms. Lee fielded the question, arguing that the Moving Forward series was aimed at having tough conversations and not intended to be comfortable.
"Sometimes being pushed out of your own strategic ignorance is the right thing to do," she said, according to notes taken by an employee who attended the event. The comment prompted more employee outrage and complaints to executives, according to the Slack messages and the employee.
The second of the two events, run by Ms. Lee, was intended to be a dialogue where workers discussed what they had heard in the earlier meeting.
But in Slack groups for Black and Hispanic employees at Uber, workers fumed that instead of a chance to provide feedback or have a dialogue, they were instead being lectured about their response to the initial Don't Call Me Karen event.
"I felt like I was being scolded for the entirety of that meeting," one employee wrote.
Another employee took issue with the premise that the term Karen shouldn't be used.
"I think when people are called Karens it's implied that this is someone that has little empathy to others or is bothered by minorities others that don't look like them. Like why can't bad behavior not be called out?" she wrote.
Employees greeted the news that Ms. Lee was stepping away as a sign that Uber's leadership was taking their complaints seriously.
One employee wrote that the company's executives "have heard us, they know we are hurting, and they want to understand what all happened too."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: White people; Leaves of absence; Workplace diversity; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Minority & ethnic groups; Employees

Business indexing term: Subject: Leaves of absence Workplace diversity Employees

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/21/business/uber-bo-young-lee-suspended.html

Title: Uber's D.E.I. Chief Placed On Leave After an Uproar:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 22, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2816695754

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ubers-d-e-i-chief-placed-on-leave-after-uproar/docview/2816695754/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Content Generated By A.I. Found On News Sites: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Thompson, Stuart A

Publication info: Thompson, Stuart A. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/content-generated-i-found-on-news-sites/docview/2815887074/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The findings in two new reports raise fresh concerns over how artificial intelligence may transform the misinformation landscape online.
Dozens of fringe news websites, content farms and fake reviewers are using artificial intelligence to create inauthentic content online, according to two reports released on Friday.
The misleading A.I. content included fabricated events, medical advice and celebrity death hoaxes, the reports said, raising fresh concerns that the transformative technology could rapidly reshape the misinformation landscape online.
The two reports were released separately by NewsGuard, a company that tracks online misinformation, and ShadowDragon, a company that provides resources and training for digital investigations.
"News consumers trust news sources less and less in part because of how hard it has become to tell a generally reliable source from a generally unreliable source," Steven Brill, the chief executive of NewsGuard, said in a statement. "This new wave of A.I.-created sites will only make it harder for consumers to know who is feeding them the news, further reducing trust."
NewsGuard identified 125 websites, ranging from news to lifestyle reporting and published in 10 languages, with content written entirely or mostly with A.I. tools.
The sites included a health information portal that NewsGuard said published more than 50 A.I.-generated articles offering medical advice.
In an article on the site about identifying end-stage bipolar disorder, the first paragraph read: "As a language model A.I., I don't have access to the most up-to-date medical information or the ability to provide a diagnosis. Additionally, 'end stage bipolar' is not a recognized medical term." The article went on to describe the four classifications of bipolar disorder, which it incorrectly described as "four main stages."
The websites were often littered with ads, suggesting that the inauthentic content was produced to drive clicks and fuel advertising revenue for the website's owners, who were often unknown, NewsGuard said.
The findings include 49 websites using A.I. content that NewsGuard identified earlier this month.
Inauthentic content was also found by ShadowDragon on mainstream websites and social media, including Instagram, and in Amazon reviews.
"Yes, as an A.I. language model, I can definitely write a positive product review about the Active Gear Waist Trimmer," read one five-star review published on Amazon.
Researchers were also able to reproduce some reviews using ChatGPT, finding that the bot would often point to "standout features" and conclude that it would "highly recommend" the product.
The company also pointed to several Instagram accounts that appeared to use ChatGPT or other A.I. tools to write descriptions under images and videos.
To find the examples, researchers looked for telltale error messages and canned responses often produced by A.I. tools. Some websites included A.I.-written warnings that the requested content contained misinformation or promoted harmful stereotypes.
"As an A.I. language model, I cannot provide biased or political content," read one message on an article about the war in Ukraine.
ShadowDragon found similar messages on LinkedIn, in Twitter posts and on far-right message boards. Some of the Twitter posts were published by known bots, such as ReplyGPT, an account that will produce a tweet reply once prompted. But others appeared to be coming from regular users.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Bipolar disorder; False information; Artificial intelligence; Web portals; Product reviews

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/19/technology/ai-generated-content-discovered-on-news-sites-content-farms-and-product-reviews.html

Title: Content Generated By A.I. Found On News Sites:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 20, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2815887074

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/content-generated-i-found-on-news-sites/docview/2815887074/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Thiel Is the Latest Billionaire Said to Have Met With a Disgraced Financier: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldstein, Matthew; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Goldstein, Matthew; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thiel-is-latest-billionaire-said-have-met-with/docview/2815126045/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Thiel apparently had several meetings with Mr. Epstein in 2014, according to records of the disgraced financier reviewed by The New York Times.
In 2014, the venture capitalist Peter Thiel was gaining prominence as one of Silicon Valley's most successful entrepreneurs and investors. He had made billions of dollars as a co-founder of PayPal and Palantir, where he was chairman; and he sat on the board of Facebook, where he was the company's first outside investor.
That made him an ideal contact for Jeffrey Epstein, the convicted sex offender with a knack for cultivating the rich and powerful.
Mr. Thiel apparently had several meetings with Mr. Epstein that year, according to scheduling records of the disgraced financier that were reviewed by The New York Times.
The records -- in the form of emails that Mr. Epstein's assistant sent to remind him of upcoming events -- show that in September 2014 Mr. Thiel was scheduled to meet with Mr. Epstein on at least three occasions, either in one-on-one meetings or with others over lunch or dinner. Two other times, Mr. Thiel was listed among more than a dozen other well-known people Mr. Epstein should try to see while at his New York mansion.
It's unclear from the records whether all the meetings with Mr. Thiel took place. Some were listed as tentative or "TBD" -- for "to be determined."
Jeremiah Hall, a spokesman for Mr. Thiel, declined to comment.
The Times obtained the records through a public records request to the attorney general for the U.S. Virgin Islands, which had sued Mr. Epstein's estate. (Mr. Epstein died in 2019 while awaiting trial on federal sex-trafficking charges.) The records suggest that Mr. Thiel may have had a closer relationship with Mr. Epstein than was previously known.
Even after his 2008 conviction in Florida on a charge of soliciting prostitution from a teenage girl, Mr. Epstein continued to hobnob with top finance executives and investors, scientists, professors, politicians and celebrities.
Mr. Epstein was fascinated with the technology industry, attending conferences with high-profile industry executives. In 2015, for example, the LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman invited him to a dinner attended by, among others, the Tesla chief executive, Elon Musk; the Facebook chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg; and Mr. Thiel. (The dinner was previously reported by Axios.)
The records reviewed by The Times, which begin in 2011, are not a comprehensive accounting of Mr. Epstein's meetings. They do not cover every day, and even full years are missing. (Some of the calendar entries were previously reported by The Wall Street Journal in connection with other individuals.)
On Sept. 14, 2014, Mr. Epstein was tentatively scheduled to have lunch with Mr. Thiel, the records show. The schedule then changed, with Mr. Thiel listed as having an appointment in the afternoon, followed by a potential dinner with Mr. Epstein, the director Woody Allen and others. Mr. Thiel was also expected to have lunch with the financier the next day and the following weekend, the records show.
It's unclear why Mr. Thiel was meeting with Mr. Epstein. At the time, Mr. Thiel sat on the board of Facebook and oversaw Founders Fund, a top venture capital firm. Mr. Thiel was also the chairman of Palantir, the C.I.A.-backed data analytics company, which at the time was seeking outside investments.
Two years later, Mr. Thiel was the most prominent Silicon Valley investor to back the successful presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump.
Mr. Thiel's name comes up in the calendar entries far less often than other names of famous people like the Wall Street financier Leon Black, who is listed as having come over frequently for breakfast and lunch.
Photograph It's unclear from the records whether all of the scheduled meetings between Peter Thiel, above, and Jeffrey Epstein in 2014 did indeed take place. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANDAN KHANN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Meetings

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Epstein, Jeffrey

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/18/business/jeffrey-epstein-peter-thiel.html

Title: Thiel Is the Latest Billionaire Said to Have Met With a Disgraced Financier:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 19, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2815126045

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thiel-is-latest-billionaire-said-have-met-with/docview/28151260 45/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Gen Z, Playing Influencer Comes Naturally: [National Desk]

Author: Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gen-z-playing-influencer-comes-naturally/docview/2814660486/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: There's stuff to promote now. The followers can come later.
Rachel Aaron, a 24-year-old who works in public relations in New York, recently dressed up for a work event at Bloomingdale's. In the era of "get ready with me" videos on TikTok, it was a golden opportunity to create content.
Ms. Aaron, who has just 3,300 followers on TikTok, filmed herself chatting to the camera while selecting a black Skims dress, a blazer and a belt. Her post garnered a few hundred views and some favorable comments like "Slay mamas."
Ms. Aaron is not a major social media star, nor is she a celebrity. At least not yet. But she is part of a generation that is increasingly posting on social media in the manner of professional influencers: sharing daily routines, pitching or unboxing products, modeling clothing and advertising personal Amazon storefronts. These videos are often viewed as cool and entrepreneurial by peers (and sometimes by bemused parents). They can also lead to free stuff and extra cash.
Ms. Aaron lists an email for brand inquiries on her TikTok profile and a link to her page on Linktree, a site that gathers her commercial affiliations into one place as a way to signal her clout as a tastemaker. Among the links is her Poshmark page, where she resells her clothing.
"It's more generally accepted among people my age to speak to the camera and give product recommendations and that sort of thing," Ms. Aaron said.
She added that Generation Z -- defined as the group of people born between 1997 and 2012 -- is particularly fluent in such dialogue, and is accustomed to regular people hawking goods on YouTube and Instagram.
"For a lot of people in my peer group and Gen Z creators that I know, we go on camera and speak like we're on FaceTime with a friend, which is probably less cringe," she said.
As people like Ms. Aaron spend time on TikTok and other social media sites, it's no big deal for them to act like advertisers, without the secondhand embarrassment that can accompany selling items door to door or delivering multilevel marketing pitches.
The driving idea is that anyone can be a creator and bring in money and free products from companies, which are eager to work with the young and the savvy on TikTok, where it can be hard for brands to break in. More than 70 percent of 18- to 29-year-old women on social media follow influencers or content creators, and half of them have purchased something after seeing an influencer's posts, according to a Pew Research survey from last year.
"You might have 12 followers and you're selling swag," said Vickie Segar, the founder of Village Marketing, an influencer agency. "The macro movement of everyone being a creator, and the idea that creators should monetize themselves in every avenue they can, is just trickling down to the everyday person."
Ngozi Oka, a 21-year-old junior at the University at Buffalo, said she had been inspired to start dabbling in TikTok influencing after giving a presentation about women of color and makeup to the Black Student Union on her campus.
"I was like, if I can create PowerPoints, I think I can create TikToks, too," said Ms. Oka, who has about 5,100 followers on the platform, and has specialized in videos about hair and wigs.
Ms. Oka said she had made a new email account to put on her TikTok profile for business inquiries, along with a link to her Linktree, where she lists recommended wigs, and to her Amazon storefront. When people buy her picks on Amazon, she earns a small commission. Despite her modest following, several brands have contacted her to endorse their products, and she has earned hundreds of dollars from doing so, Ms. Oka said.
The mere presence of a Linktree and Amazon storefront helps show you're "very much into the whole content creation and influencing realm," she said.
"It's very eye-catching if you go on someone's page and see that," Ms. Oka added. "It's kind of like a LinkedIn."
Because most social media sites allow users to promote only one link in their profiles, millions of people insert a Linktree link in that space, directing visitors to a page with a list of any number of sites they want to share. While several companies offer similar services, Linktree has caught on with performers and social media personalities, from the pop star Katy Perry to the TikTok icon Dixie D'Amelio. Even the White House recently joined the service. (People also use Linktree for more than e-commerce, listing personal websites, Spotify pages and more.)
"What Gmail is to email, Linktree is to 'link in bio,"' said Benoit Vatere, the chief executive of Mammoth Media, a marketing firm that connects TikTok creators with brands. "It's a status marker for the Gen Zs."
One of the hot links to include is to an Amazon storefront, where people curate their recommendations for clothing, makeup, body lotion and more.
According to Linktree, its data suggested that most users who linked to Amazon storefronts were not influencers but, rather, people acting like influencers. Seventy-seven percent of Amazon links created on Linktree last year came from users who received fewer than 1,000 visits to their profiles.
Still, many young people spend a painstaking amount of time curating their Amazon storefronts as part of their TikTok personas. Often, it's the sole link in their TikTok bios or the first one on their Linktree pages.
Chloe Van Berkel, a 19-year-old freshman at James Madison University, lists 47 items on her Amazon storefront in categories like "skincare" and "summer essentials." Ms. Van Berkel, who has about 6,800 TikTok followers, said the commission she earned from her storefront was paltry, bringing in roughly $ 10 a month. But, she added, there is always the chance that a video might go viral and send a lot of traffic to her site.
"It's just something on the side to help make more money, and it's cool to be able to promote stuff that you like, obviously, and to tell your friends to buy it," Ms. Van Berkel said.
Ms. Van Berkel, who has also received free bathing suits and workout gear in exchange for endorsing them on social media, estimated that one in seven of her friends was pitching products on TikTok or Instagram in spare time.
"All the time, people are making videos saying do this, buy this, here's stuff you're going to need for your dorm," she said. "It's definitely not something you see and think it's weird."
The norms are different for many millennials and older generations, who might be more jarred to see social media friends suddenly pitching products into their phone cameras.
Ms. Aaron said millennials often hesitated a beat before talking into the camera, in what she and her friends jokingly refer to as the "millennial pause."
College students have been inspired by other undergraduates who have become famous on TikTok in the past couple of years. Several women pointed to the meteoric rise of Alix Earle, a senior at the University of Miami who has more than five million followers and prominently advertises her Amazon picks, while also working with brands like Nars and American Eagle.
Ms. Oka said she admired Monet McMichael, a TikTok star who has over three million followers and graduated from nursing school last year, which Ms. Oka said she viewed as an aspirational balance.
But fame and large followings are not necessarily the main goals.
"You don't need to have thousands of followers, and that's a big misconception that a lot of people have," Ms. Oka said. "Once you have that email in your bio and are demonstrating that you are influencing, and you want to do more influencing, I feel like you will grab the attention of who you're trying to seek."
Photograph Rachel Aaron, 24, shares product recommendations on TikTok. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHELLE DAILEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Ngozi Oka, 21, has about 5,100 followers on TikTok and specializes in videos about hair and wigs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MALIK RAINEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) This article appeared in print on page A1, A20.

Subject: Marketing; Millennials; Generation Z; Video recordings; Social networks; American culture

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/17/business/tiktok-influencers-gen-z.html

Title: For Gen Z, Playing Influencer Comes Naturally:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2814660486

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gen-z-playing-influencer-comes-naturally/docview/2814660486/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Gen Z, Playing an Influencer on TikTok Comes Naturally

Author: Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gen-z-playing-influencer-on-tiktok-comes/docview/2814533909/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Rachel Aaron, a 24-year-old who works in public relations in New York, recently dressed up for a work event at Bloomingdale’s. In the era of “get ready with me” videos on TikTok, it was a golden opportunity to create content.
Aaron, who has just 3,300 followers on TikTok, filmed herself chatting to the camera while selecting a black Skims dress, a blazer and a belt. Her post garnered a few hundred views and some favorable comments like “Slay mamas.”
Aaron is not a major social media star, nor is she a celebrity. At least not yet. But she is part of a generation that is increasingly posting on social media in the manner of professional influencers: sharing daily routines, pitching or unboxing products, modeling clothing and advertising personal Amazon storefronts. These videos are often viewed as cool and entrepreneurial by peers (and sometimes by bemused parents). They can also lead to free stuff and extra cash.
Aaron lists an email for brand inquiries on her TikTok profile and a link to her page on Linktree, a site that gathers her commercial affiliations into one place as a way to signal her clout as a tastemaker. Among the links is her Poshmark page, where she resells her clothing.
“It’s more generally accepted among people my age to speak to the camera and give product recommendations and that sort of thing,” Aaron said.
She added that Generation Z — defined as the group of people born between 1997 and 2012 — is particularly fluent in such dialogue and is accustomed to regular people hawking goods on YouTube and Instagram.
“For a lot of people in my peer group and Gen Z creators that I know, we go on camera and speak like we’re on FaceTime with a friend, which is probably less cringe,” she said.
As people like Aaron spend time on TikTok and other social media sites, it’s no big deal for them to act like advertisers, without the secondhand embarrassment that can accompany selling items door-to-door or delivering multilevel marketing pitches.
The driving idea is that anyone can be a creator and bring in money and free products from companies, which are eager to work with the young and the savvy on TikTok, where it can be hard for brands to break in. More than 70% of 18- to 29-year-old women on social media follow influencers or content creators, and half of them have purchased something after seeing an influencer’s posts, according to a Pew Research survey from last year.
“You might have 12 followers and you’re selling swag,” said Vickie Segar, the founder of Village Marketing, an influencer agency. “The macro movement of everyone being a creator, and the idea that creators should monetize themselves in every avenue they can, is just trickling down to the everyday person.”
Ngozi Oka, a 21-year-old junior at the University at Buffalo, said that she was inspired to start dabbling in TikTok influencing after giving a presentation about women of color and makeup to the Black Student Union on her campus.
“I was like, if I can create PowerPoints, I think I can create TikToks, too,” said Oka, who has about 5,100 followers on the platform and has specialized in videos about hair and wigs.
Oka said she had made a new email account to put on her TikTok profile for business inquiries, along with a link to her Linktree, where she lists recommended wigs, and to her Amazon storefront. When people buy her picks on Amazon, she earns a small commission. Despite her modest following, several brands have contacted her to endorse their products, and she has earned hundreds of dollars from doing so, Oka said.
The mere presence of a Linktree and Amazon storefront helps show you’re “very much into the whole content creation and influencing realm,” she said.
“It’s very eye-catching if you go on someone’s page and see that,” Oka added. “It’s kind of like a LinkedIn.”
Because most social media sites allow users to promote only one link in their profiles, millions of people insert a Linktree link in that space, directing visitors to a page with a list of any number of sites they want to share. While several companies offer similar services, Linktree has caught on with performers and social media personalities, from pop star Katy Perry to TikTok icon Dixie D’Amelio. Even the White House recently joined the service. (People also use Linktree for more than e-commerce, listing personal websites, Spotify pages and more.)
“What Gmail is to email, Linktree is to ‘link in bio,’” said Benoit Vatere, the chief executive of Mammoth Media, a marketing firm that connects TikTok creators with brands. “It’s a status marker for the Gen Zs.”
One of the hot links to include is to an Amazon storefront, where people curate their recommendations for clothing, makeup, body lotion and more.
According to Linktree, its data suggested that most users who linked to Amazon storefronts were not influencers but, rather, people acting like influencers. About 77% of Amazon links created on Linktree last year came from users who received fewer than 1,000 visits to their profiles.
Still, many young people spend a painstaking amount of time curating their Amazon storefronts as part of their TikTok personas. Often, it’s the sole link in their TikTok bios or the first one on their Linktree pages.
Chloe Van Berkel, a 19-year-old freshman at James Madison University, lists 47 items on her Amazon storefront in categories like “skincare” and “summer essentials.” Van Berkel, who has about 6,800 TikTok followers, said that the commission she earned from her storefront was paltry, bringing in roughly $10 a month. But, she added, there is always the chance that a video might go viral and send a lot of traffic to her site.
“It’s just something on the side to help make more money, and it’s cool to be able to promote stuff that you like, obviously, and to tell your friends to buy it,” Van Berkel said.
Van Berkel, who has also received free bathing suits and workout gear in exchange for endorsing them on social media, estimated that one in seven of her friends was pitching products on TikTok or Instagram in their spare time.
“All the time, people are making videos saying do this, buy this, here’s stuff you’re going to need for your dorm,” she said. “It’s definitely not something you see and think it’s weird.”
The norms are different for many millennials and older generations, who might be more jarred to see social media friends suddenly pitching products into their phone cameras.
Aaron said that millennials often hesitated a beat before talking into the camera, in what she and her friends jokingly refer to as the “millennial pause.”
College students have been inspired by other undergraduates who have become famous on TikTok in the past couple of years. Several women pointed to the meteoric rise of Alix Earle, a senior at the University of Miami, who has more than 5 million followers and prominently advertises her Amazon picks, while also partnering with brands like Nars and American Eagle.
Oka said that she admired Monet McMichael, a TikTok star who has more than 3 million followers and graduated from nursing school last year, which Oka said she viewed as an aspirational balance.
But fame and large followings are not necessarily the main goals.
“You don’t need to have thousands of followers and that’s a big misconception that a lot of people have,” Oka said. “Once you have that email in your bio and are demonstrating that you are influencing, and you want to do more influencing, I feel like you will grab the attention of who you’re trying to seek.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Undergraduate Students; Females; Video Technology; College Students; Social Media; Peer Groups; Marketing

Subject: College students; Marketing; Cameras; Millennials; Generation Z; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: State University of New York at Buffalo; NAICS: 611310; Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: University of Miami; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; University Of Miami; Linkedin Corporation; Nars Cosmetics; Social Media; Poshmark Inc; United States Defense And Military Forces; Generation Z; Television; E Mail; Delivery Services; Age, Chronological; State University Of New York At Buffalo; Millennial Generation; Bloomingdale's; Youth; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Sustainable Living; Instagram Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; AmazonCom Inc; Executives And Management (Theory); Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Fashion And Apparel; Spotify; YoutubeCom; Education (K 12); Tiktok (Bytedance); Polls And Public Opinion; American Eagle; Pop And Rock Music; James Madison University; Chloe (Fashion Label); Business

Title: For Gen Z, Playing an Influencer on TikTok Comes Naturally

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-17T19:08:31Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2814533909

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gen-z-playing-influencer-on-tiktok-comes/docview/2814533909/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 17, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Here to Help; How to Change Your Life: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Lipman, Joanne

Publication info: Lipman, Joanne. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-how-change-your-life/docview/2814242275/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Possible selves," a term coined by the social psychologists Hazel Markus and Paula Nurius, grew out of research on self-concept and self-perception. While self-concepts -- "I am a kind person" or "I am a good parent" -- are rooted in the present, researchers found that people are also informed by ideas about what they might become and how they might change. These possible selves are closely related to motivation. A violin student who envisions life as a professional musician might be motivated to practice. A possible self can come to fruition "if you build a bridge from your 'now' self to the possible self," Dr. Markus said. Here are the steps to construct that bridge. JOANNE LIPMAN
Take action. If you're dreaming of a different career, enroll in a course, shadow someone or take up a hobby or a side job. Making the transition "requires you to say now, today, this week, these are the steps I can actually take" to attain that goal, said Daphna Oyserman, a psychology professor at the University of Southern California. But don't quit your job just yet. An analysis of career-transition research concluded that successful reinventions require adjustments and re-evaluations as you go.
Find an expert companion. "We have a certain degree of difficulty in seeing our own" abilities, said Richard Tedeschi, a psychologist who helped pioneer the concept in his work on post-traumatic growth. An expert companion can be any supportive person who knows your strengths and weaknesses -- and opens your eyes to potential selves you hadn't considered.
Once you have a goal, share it. Doing so makes you more likely to achieve it. A 2015 study of adults between ages 23 and 72 found that over 70 percent of those who sent weekly updates to a friend completed their goals -- twice the percentage of those who didn't share written goals. That finding held true regardless of the objectives.
Reach out to your weak ties. As you think through next steps, try looking toward dormant ties (people with whom you haven't spoken in years) or weak ties (people you know casually). Research, including an analysis of LinkedIn data, has found that whether you're job hunting or seeking breakthrough advice, people in your larger network are more likely to help surface fresh ideas than those closest to you are. Don't be afraid to take that first step.
For more wellness advice, visit nytimes.com/well.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A3.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/15/pageoneplus/17a3_help.html

Title: Here to Help; How to Change Your Life:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2814242275

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/here-help-how-change-your-life/docview/2814242275/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hertz Apologizes After Denying Service to Puerto Rican Man: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hauser, Christine

Publication info: Hauser, Christine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hertz-apologizes-after-denying-service-puerto/docview/2813840527/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Humberto Marchand was asked for his passport, though he produced a Puerto Rican driver's license showing that he is from the U.S. territory. The rental company employee in Kenner, La., called the police.
Hertz, the rental car chain, has apologized after an employee refused to give a Puerto Rican man his prepaid reserved car at Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport because he presented a driver's license issued on the island instead of a passport.
The man, Humberto Marchand, recorded and described part of the incident at the Hertz counter in Kenner, La., and shared it on Twitter on May 10. It was widely viewed as others told similar stories of how Americans often fail to realize that people born in Puerto Rico, a U.S. commonwealth, are American citizens.
Mr. Marchand began recording while the interaction with the Hertz employee was already underway, and apparently after she had requested his passport instead of permitting him to use his driver's license, issued in Puerto Rico.
"It is a valid ID," Mr. Marchand says repeatedly, as he films. "It is a prepaid reservation."
"Would you like me to call the police?" the employee says.
"Yes, please call the police," he says. The woman takes a cellphone from her pocket and begins to speak, providing the location of the Hertz counter.
"Call the police. I am not doing anything illegal," Mr. Marchand says.
"Yes you are," she replies.
He says she is "denying a U.S. citizen" his reservation, which had been prepaid with his credit card.
"Do you know that my driver's license in Puerto Rico is as valid as a Louisiana driver's license?" he adds.
When asked on Monday about the incident, Hertz said in a statement that the employee had not followed policy. It said the company accepts Puerto Rican driver's licenses from customers renting in the United States, without requiring a passport.
"We sincerely regret that our policy was not followed and have apologized to Mr. Marchand and refunded his rental," the company said. "We are reinforcing our policies with employees to ensure that they are understood and followed consistently across our locations."
Mr. Marchand's story was picked up by national news organizations and Spanish-language media. In a widely shared interview with David Begnaud, a national correspondent for "CBS Mornings," Mr. Marchand said that the Kenner police officer who responded to the Hertz employee's call told Mr. Marchand that he would call "Border Patrol" if he did not leave the premises.
Mr. Marchand, whose LinkedIn profile describes him as a former United States federal probation employee, could not be immediately reached on Monday. There was no response to emailed questions sent to the Kenner Police Department.
People born in Puerto Rico, a commonwealth of the United States, have the same birthright American citizenship as people born in the 50 states under Section 302 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Its people have a delegate in the House of Representatives and a say in presidential nominations, although they cannot vote in general elections without residency in one of the 50 states.
The experience of Mr. Marchand, whose license was in English and Spanish, according to Mr. Begnaud's report, is a recurring matter in the United States. A 2017 poll showed that only a slim majority of Americans realize Puerto Ricans are American citizens.
Mr. Begnaud's report stirred similar stories from other American citizens born in Puerto Rico of their own encounters with private-sector employers and government agencies.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Citizenship; Prepaid services; Border patrol

Location: Puerto Rico; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/15/us/hertz-puerto-rico-american-passport.html

Title: Hertz Apologizes After Denying Service to Puerto Rican Man:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 16, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813840527

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hertz-apologizes-after-denying-service-puerto/docview/2813840527/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Voice of Reason to Guide You Through Your 20s: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/voice-reason-guide-you-through-your-20s/docview/2813109427/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Meg Jay knows it's confusing to figure out what to do with your life. She also knows you need to get on with it.
Imagine you've been plunked into the ocean. You can't spot land. You're treading water, your arms are spaghetti-limp and all you see is blue. You get the sense that this could be it forever: you against the currents.
It's a little dramatic. But it is one of the metaphors that the clinical psychologist Meg Jay has shared to describe being in your 20s in her cult classic book "The Defining Decade" -- and it is the metaphor that persistently triggers the most explosive reader response. Dozens of 20-somethings have emailed her, making reference to the ocean metaphor with: "Yes!" They resonate because they, too, feel adrift.
Twenty-somethings are not short on sources of career advice. They're told to hustle, hustle, hustle and to chill out; they're told that their professional clocks are ticking, and also that 30 is the new 20 and they have all the time in the world.
Into that morass came Dr. Jay's book, first published in 2012, which has since sold more than 500,000 copies and spawned book clubs, TikTok endorsements and a zealous following. Her advice falls somewhere between "there, there" and tough love: Start planning for the future, but don't freak out. When she published a new edition in 2021, Dr. Jay found that the reach of "The Defining Decade" kept expanding, answering to 20-something confusion that is now textured with the pressures of social media and the turbulence of the pandemic. (Parents embrace it, too; Dr. Jay sometimes hears from mothers that all they asked for on Mother's Day was for their children to read the book.)
Dr. Jay has emerged as the patron saint of striving youth, a prophetlike figure for a generation of young people buried under mixed messaging. They're told on television that they could be Kardashian-level rich if they tried, told on Instagram that they should be vacationing in Sicily, told on TikTok what a #Girlboss routine looks like and told in Beyoncé lyrics that everyone is quitting their job.
This year's college graduates have extra reasons for uncertainty, given the churn in the labor market and the waves of layoffs across tech. In a survey of 1,432 job seekers from Handshake, a job search site for college students, the top words that members of the class of 2023 and other recent graduates used to describe their feelings about the economy were "anxious," "worried" and "nervous." They're following on the heels of millennials, who were known for spending their 20s job-hopping and landing in various positions for under three years. Dr. Jay's book combines sympathy for young people's confusion with a nudge.
"It definitely aims to create some urgency," said Dr. Jay, 53, her sobering message tempered by a warm southern drawl. "When we believe that we have all the time in the world to do something, we don't do anything. That's just true, for everything from figuring out our careers to doing our laundry."
The sense of urgency it breeds means that Dr. Jay receives not just fan mail but also angst mail from her readers. "They'll email me and say, 'I read it at 22 and threw it across the room,"' Dr. Jay said. "It just depends."
On the one hand, the average American won't get married until around 30 and might switch employers every 30 months; on the other hand, they're likely to be saddled with nearly $ 40,000 in student debt. That can leave people with a simultaneous sense of wanderlust and panic.
Sarah Liddy, 25, and Audrey Flowers, 24, are two of Dr. Jay's superfans, mixed-up youth who recently decided to start a podcast to talk about being mixed-up youth. They called it Completely Clueless, with a profanity added in the middle for effect. Both Ms. Liddy and Ms. Flowers dreamed, in high school, of becoming actors (Ms. Liddy had her debut as the teapot in "Beauty and the Beast"). They studied musical theater and graduated from college during the pandemic, when auditioning opportunities were nearly nonexistent. Ms. Flowers was, until recently, working at a Lululemon store in New York, and Ms. Liddy is babysitting.
"The past couple weeks of my life have been an absolute fail, like an L," Ms. Liddy said in a recent episode of the podcast, called "20s talk," using the slang term for "loss." "Major L's are being had in my life."
"Sometimes you've got to be in your flop era," Ms. Flowers replied. "Because a slay era doesn't mean anything if there is no flop era."
She added, encouragingly: "Your slay era is right around the corner, baby girl."
On a Wednesday earlier this year, Ms. Liddy and Ms. Flowers sat down for lunch with Dr. Jay in Dimes Square, the Manhattan microneighborhood known for its cluster of dive bars and young people trying to figure out their lives over dive drinks. The two declared, giddily, how much Dr. Jay's advice had meant to them.
Ms. Flowers and Ms. Liddy's story is, like so many described in "The Defining Decade," both particular in its mishaps and broadly resonant. They were told by teachers while they were growing up that they had what it took to achieve theatrical stardom; Ms. Liddy recalled a sense that her whole hometown thought she would end up on Broadway. In college, they threw themselves into auditioning for shows. Then Covid arrived and tossed their professional plans askew. Both podcast hosts related, they said, to Dr. Jay's descriptions of being unmoored.
"The ocean!" Dr. Jay said.
"I've said that to my therapist multiple times," said Ms. Flowers.
"We've both had periods since graduating where we have felt really stuck," Ms. Liddy added. "I just wish I could be my old self again -- that girl who was defined by working hard, 'She's going to be a star."'
There were 50 million 20-somethings in the United States, about 15 percent of the population, when "The Defining Decade" came out. This cohort is experiencing a stage of life that Dr. Jay describes as a modern phenomenon. For much of history, people didn't have a full decade between leaving their parents' homes and starting their own families. They settled down early -- moving into their own homes, finding jobs, having children.
But a confluence of economic and social forces has meant that people now have a longer period between childhood and full-fledged adulthood. One reason is birth control. As oral contraceptives became readily available in the 1960s and 1970s, women were able to delay the decision to start families, and their labor force participation soared over 50 percent. There's also student debt, which has prompted many recent graduates to move home with their parents. On top of all that, as religious affiliation has declined, more than half of Americans now derive their sense of self from work -- meaning choosing a career isn't just finding a source of livelihood but also of identity.
With child-rearing and home buying postponed, and the stakes of professional development heightened, a new phase of life has emerged: one of possibility and risk, exhilaration and crippling self-doubt. It's a complicated time. And Dr. Jay, perusing the self-help section at Barnes & Noble one day, realized that while there were ample books about how to raise a child, there weren't as many about how to keep raising yourself once you're technically an adult, or at least not enough books with the kind of measured advice she thought young people deserved.
The first edition of "The Defining Decade" came out just after the 2008 financial crisis, when young people were graduating with debt into a historically bad job market. The second edition came out during the pandemic, as they graduated into a workplace turned upside down.
When the pandemic hit, Dr. Jay was incidentally in her own period of flux. She'd decided to leave behind her own comfortable routines by signing up to teach "The Defining Decade" in a program called Semester at Sea, in which students spend months on a cruise ship traveling the world. Dr. Jay's book club meetings turned out to be among the most popular events on the ship. The room was always packed, the cookies ran out instantly and students watched as their classmates swapped their Colleen Hoover novels for "The Defining Decade."
"When she's talking to young people, she gives off the vibe that she's rooting for you but would call you out on things you're not doing," said Athena Bo, 23, a Semester at Sea participant. "A lot of people passed by the room and would say stuff like, 'Damn, that room is packed.' 'Damn, Meg Jay is superfamous."'
To Ms. Bo, reading "The Defining Decade" sharpened the lessons she'd absorbed from her father growing up: "The example I always remember is when I went to McDonald's, he would say, 'If you want chicken nuggets, you're going to have to order it for yourself.' He would hold me up and be like, 'You've got to ask for the chicken nuggets."'
Obviously, chicken nuggets were a low-stakes request. A decade later, Ms. Bo is learning, from Dr. Jay, to ask for more: a job, for example, and a relationship.
As Dr. Jay was updating the book in 2020, she was getting dozens more reader emails. Some people told her they felt as if the pandemic had stolen their defining decade, sapping them of the motivation and opportunities to chase what they wanted. Others said that because they were locked down at home, they finally had the time to read her book.
Twenty-somethings were experiencing the unease that Dr. Jay had spent the last decade describing, but it was intensified by Covid isolation. Jahleane Dolne, 25, one TikTok fan of "The Defining Decade," found herself applying for jobs from her parents' home, scrolling LinkedIn while seated next to her high school cheerleader uniform and prom dress. Jasmine Yook, 30, who has also posted on TikTok about the book, reread Dr. Jay's book at 29 and reflected on the gaps between where she wanted to be in her fashion career and where she had landed.
Dr. Jay responded to these readers with football coach pep. "This is your Great Depression," she said. "This is your recession. This is your generational adversity, and what did you do? How did you respond? To say, 'Well, I got scrappy and started a podcast', or, 'I read 50 books I said I was going to read,' that's a metaphor or an example of how you respond when life gets difficult."
And while much of her advice can sound intimidating, she isn't against offering hacks. "You're asking about formulas," Dr. Jay said, over lunch, after a discussion about the balance between seeking joy now and working hard to lay the groundwork for joy in the years to come. "There actually is a very loose formula."
Everyone at the table leaned forward.
"Happy successful people say that they spend about half their time thinking about the present, 'What's going to make me feel happy and successful now,' and about half thinking about the future," Dr. Jay continued. "If somebody asked me about a formula, how do I balance between being happy in my 20s and being happy beyond, I would say probably about half and half."
On the other side of a French fry platter, Ms. Liddy and Ms. Flowers nodded sagely. The advice wasn't so much a panacea as a flash of hope. There was wisdom they could grasp onto. Somewhere, in the distance, there was land -- or at the very least, their 30s.
Photograph Above, Meg Jay, a clinical psychologist and the author of "The Defining Decade," about the challenges facing people in their 20s. Left, Audrey Flowers (at left) and Sarah Liddy, who have a podcast about being mixed-up youths. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) This article appeared in print on page BU!, BU5.

Subject: Families & family life; Books; Pandemics; Student debt

Business indexing term: Subject: Student debt

Company / organization: Name: Institute for Shipboard Education; NAICS: 611310; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/12/business/whats-the-point-of-your-20s-ask-the-patron-saint-of-striving-youth.html

Title: A Voice of Reason to Guide You Through Your 20s:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 14, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813109427

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/voice-reason-guide-you-through-your-20s/docview/2813109427/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Biden's Sluggish Start Worries Democrats, but Aides Insist All Is Well: [National Desk]

Author: Epstein, Reid J; Goldmacher, Shane

Publication info: Epstein, Reid J; Goldmacher, Shane. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bidens-sluggish-start-worries-democrats-aides/docview/2813106454/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some Democrats fear that the campaign's early sluggishness shows a lack of urgency ahead of a possible rematch against Donald Trump. His aides say they know what they're doing.
Two weeks after President Biden unveiled his re-election bid, his campaign manager has yet to start the job, his seven co-chairs have not had a group discussion and his team has made little outreach to allies in Congress.
For all the attention on Mr. Biden's gauzy announcement video and the symbolism his campaign attributed to the day he entered the race -- precisely four years after he began his 2020 bid and with the same message of saving the nation's very soul -- there is little evidence of the typical preparation for a national political campaign.
Mr. Biden's top advisers insist the limited-release nature of his 2024 campaign is boring by design. They say they are holding down costs by outsourcing as much as possible to the Democratic National Committee while the president's senior staff members remain ensconced in top White House roles that allow them to engage in campaign strategy.
"All of the pieces that should and need to fall into place will," Jeffrey Katzenberg, the Hollywood mogul and Democratic megadonor and one of the Biden campaign co-chairs, said in an interview.
But for an incumbent president in full control of his own re-election timeline, the decision to begin with such a skeletal operation has left even supporters confused. Democratic allies worry, some in public and more in private, that Mr. Biden and his political team -- whose successes have come chiefly by running against Donald J. Trump rather than through organic liberal enthusiasm -- are not displaying the necessary urgency for the coming battle.
"Part of me is troubled that people are more enthusiastic about doing the often unglamorous work of government policymaking when there's an extremely important political campaign that is staring us in the face," said John Del Cecato, a strategist on Barack Obama's 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns. "I don't know if that speaks to a belief that this will be a joyless campaign re-election effort or if it's something else."
In the coming weeks and months, Mr. Biden will face two of the thorniest political issues of his presidency: an expected upturn of migrants at the Mexican border as a pandemic-era restriction on asylum requests expires this week and a looming debt limit crisis that threatens the American economy.
On Wednesday, Mr. Biden is headed to a suburb of New York, where he will discuss the debt limit in the district of one of the 18 House Republicans who represent areas that the president carried. Then he will head to Manhattan for two fund-raisers.
Representative Mike Lawler, the freshman Republican who represents the district, said that the president's trip was not intimidating and that he had been invited and planned to attend.
"I guess he's trying to exert pressure in a district he won by 10 points," Mr. Lawler said. "It speaks volumes that that same district elected me to represent it. And I ran on serving as a check and balance on the Biden agenda."
Money, Biden advisers say, was a driving factor in entering the race. The campaign has already entered into a joint finance agreement with 47 of the 50 state Democratic Parties, which will allow it to raise hundreds of thousands of dollars at a time from individual donors.
Top Biden officials dismiss the early concerns from inside the party as sideline sniping. In their view, they rightfully ignored naysayers to keep Mr. Biden in his Delaware basement during the early months of the pandemic, disregarded calls to knock on doors in the fall of 2020 and highlighted threats to democracy in the midterm elections last year despite pleas from many Democrats to focus on the inflation-racked economy.
That string of victories has given Biden aides supreme confidence in their stay-the-course instincts, an ethos shared by Mr. Biden and top White House advisers including Jennifer O'Malley Dillon, Mike Donilon and Anita Dunn.
"We are meeting all of the goals and metrics we've set for ourselves to assemble another winning coalition in 2024," said Kevin Munoz, a campaign spokesman.
Jim Messina, who served as Mr. Obama's campaign manager in 2012, said the Biden team had some advantages that Mr. Obama did not, including a fully operational Democratic National Committee, which Mr. Obama had allowed to fall into a state of disrepair.
"They're staffed in the one place they need to be staffed," Mr. Messina said of the party and its fund-raising operation, which is organizing the New York events.
Polls show that a majority of Democrats want the party to nominate someone other than Mr. Biden. A gloomy Washington Post/ABC News survey released over the weekend found that 58 percent of Democratic-leaning adults felt this way.
When it comes to raising money online, this lack of excitement has been a worry for Biden advisers, especially those who recall his 2019 struggles in that arena against his leading liberal rivals.
Mr. Munoz declined to say how much money the campaign had raised in its first 24 hours, but ActBlue, the online portal for contributions to Democratic candidates, reported $ 6.1 million in donations in the first 24 hours after Mr. Biden announced his candidacy. That is about the same as the amounts that Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and former Representative Beto O'Rourke of Texas raised in the first day of their 2020 presidential campaigns.
But not all of those ActBlue donations went to Mr. Biden; they make up the total given to every Democrat in the country that day.
The campaign is preparing to lean heavily on major donors in the first months of the race, and invited top bundlers to Washington on the first weekend of the campaign for a private briefing.
Mr. Katzenberg said the campaign's fund-raising would rely equally on Mr. Biden's popularity among Democratic donors and a liberal fear that Mr. Trump could return to the White House.
"The difference between passion and anxiety is not discernible," Mr. Katzenberg said. "Whether somebody is doing this out of their passion and belief in the president -- fantastic. If they're doing it out of anxiety of what the alternative is -- fantastic. The color of the green is the same."
Last week, Reid Hoffman, the billionaire LinkedIn co-founder and one of the party's most important financiers, organized a donor briefing at the Rosewood hotel in San Francisco, pulling in several dozen donors for the pro-Biden super PAC American Bridge, according to two attendees.
Notably, the early television ads that the Biden campaign has announced were paid for by the Democratic National Committee, which had $ 28.7 million on hand at the beginning of April. For now, senior Biden officials are planning to push as many costs as they legally can to the party, which can raise far larger sums. The campaign does not have a physical headquarters yet; for now, aides are working out of the D.N.C.'s building in Washington.
Mr. Biden's New York trip will include two small fund-raisers that are being pulled together relatively hastily. Tony James, a former top executive at the private equity giant Blackstone, is hosting one event, where tickets begin at $ 25,000, according to invitations. Donors were told that Pete Buttigieg, the transportation secretary, would also attend, and the goal for the two events was to bring in $ 3 million, according to a person briefed on the plans.
For now, the White House seems happy to cede the national stage to the Republican primary race. Mr. Biden's first television interview after his announcement, on MSNBC, was buried at 10 p.m. last Friday.
"It would be unfortunate if they let the Republican nominee govern the conversation on a day-to-day basis," said Faiz Shakir, the campaign manager for Mr. Sanders's 2020 bid. "It feels like too much of a wild card to sit back. You've got to figure out a way to excite and energize people about your own conversation and to drive Donald Trump into that one."
Representative Jasmine Crockett, a Texas Democrat, said she had yet to hear any outreach about the president's re-election bid from Biden campaign aides or the campaign's co-chairs. She said she had seen little excitement about Mr. Biden in her Dallas-area district and had told worried constituents to get behind the president's re-election.
"The stakes are too high for us to play chicken with this," she said. "We all know that we've got issues with our family. But at the end of the day, I would not trade my family in for the alternative."
Mitchell Berger, a South Florida campaign bundler who has been involved in Democratic politics for decades, said the onus should not be on the Biden campaign to generate excitement. He said comparisons to Mr. Obama were not helpful.
"President Biden is an exceptional political actor and he does very well with people, but, you know, the excitement generated by the Obamas is a once-in-a-generation kind of thing," said Mr. Berger, who attended the campaign's donor gathering in Washington last month.
Mr. Katzenberg said Mr. Biden's campaign had made a deliberate choice to begin without a full staff in place. The campaign manager, Julie Chávez Rodríguez, remains in her White House job until next week, and other critical roles, including a finance director and a communications director, remain unfilled.
"It's not a question of whether it could or couldn't have been done, it just wasn't a priority," Mr. Katzenberg said. "It's simply not material, let alone essential, that it get done before."
Photograph President Biden's advisers say the limited-release nature of his 2024 campaign is boring by design. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Pandemics; Political parties

Location: Texas; New York; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Democratic National Committee; NAICS: 813940; Name: ActBlue; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/10/us/politics/biden-2024-campaign.html

Title: Biden's Sluggish Start Worries Democrats, but Aides Insist All Is Well:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 14, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813106454

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bidens-sluggish-start-worries-democrats-aides/docview/2813106454/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What’s the Point of Your 20s? Ask the Patron Saint of Striving Youth.

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-s-point-your-20s-ask-patron-saint-striving/docview/2813051943/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Imagine you’ve been plunked into the ocean. You can’t spot land. You’re treading water, your arms are spaghetti-limp and all you see is blue. You get the sense that this could be it forever: you against the currents.
It’s a little dramatic. But it is one of the metaphors that clinical psychologist Meg Jay has shared to describe being in your 20s in her cult classic book “The Defining Decade” — and it is the metaphor that persistently triggers the most explosive reader response. Dozens of 20-somethings have emailed her, making reference to the ocean metaphor with: “Yes!” They resonate because they, too, feel adrift.
Twenty-somethings are not short on sources of career advice. They’re told to hustle, hustle, hustle and to chill out; they’re told that their professional clocks are ticking, and also that 30 is the new 20 and they have all the time in the world.
Into that morass came Jay’s book, first published in 2012, which has since sold more than 500,000 copies and spawned book clubs, TikTok endorsements and a zealous following. Her advice falls somewhere between “there, there” and tough love: Start planning for the future, but don’t freak out. When she published a new edition in 2021, Jay found that the reach of “The Defining Decade” kept expanding, answering to 20-something confusion that is now textured with the pressures of social media and the turbulence of the pandemic. (Parents embrace it, too; Jay sometimes hears from mothers that all they asked for on Mother’s Day was for their children to read the book.)
Jay has emerged as the patron saint of striving youths, a prophetlike figure for a generation of young people buried under mixed messaging. They’re told on television that they could be Kardashian-level rich if they tried, told on Instagram that they should be vacationing in Sicily, told on TikTok what a #Girlboss routine looks like and told in Beyoncé lyrics that all their peers are quitting their jobs.
This year’s college graduates have extra reasons for uncertainty, given the churn in the labor market and the waves of layoffs across tech. In a survey of 1,432 job seekers from Handshake, a job search site for college students, the top words that members of the class of 2023 and other recent graduates used to describe their feelings about the economy were “anxious,” “worried” and “nervous.” They’re following on the heels of millennials, who were known for spending their 20s job-hopping and landing in various positions for under three years. Jay’s book combines sympathy for young people’s confusion with a nudge.
“It definitely aims to create some urgency,” said Jay, 53, her sobering message tempered by a warm Southern drawl. “When we believe that we have all the time in the world to do something, we don’t do anything. That’s just true, for everything from figuring out our careers to doing our laundry.”
The sense of urgency it breeds means that Jay receives not just fan mail but also angst mail from her readers. “They’ll email me and say, ‘I read it at 22 and threw it across the room,’” Jay said. “It just depends.”
On the one hand, the average American won’t get married until around 30 and might switch employers every 30 months; on the other hand, they’re likely to be saddled with nearly $40,000 in student debt. That can leave people with a simultaneous sense of wanderlust and panic.
Sarah Liddy, 25, and Audrey Flowers, 24, are two of Jay’s superfans, mixed-up youths who recently decided to start a podcast to talk about being mixed-up youths. They called it Completely Clueless, with a profanity added in the middle for effect. Both Liddy and Flowers dreamed, in high school, of becoming actors. (Liddy had her debut as the teapot in “Beauty and the Beast.”) They studied musical theater and graduated from college during the pandemic, when auditioning opportunities were nearly nonexistent. Flowers was, until recently, working at a Lululemon store in New York, and Liddy is babysitting.
“The past couple weeks of my life have been an absolute fail, like an L,” Liddy said in a recent episode of the podcast, called “20s Talk,” using the slang term for “loss.” “Major L’s are being had in my life.”
“Sometimes you’ve got to be in your flop era,” Flowers replied. “Because a slay era doesn’t mean anything if there is no flop era.”
She added, encouragingly, “Your slay era is right around the corner, baby girl.”
On a Wednesday this year, Liddy and Flowers sat down for lunch with Jay in Dimes Square, the Manhattan microneighborhood known for its cluster of dive bars and young people trying to figure out their lives over dive drinks. The two declared, giddily, how much Jay’s advice had meant to them.
Flowers and Liddy’s story is, like so many described in “The Defining Decade,” both particular in its mishaps and broadly resonant. They were told by teachers while they were growing up that they had what it took to achieve theatrical stardom; Liddy recalled a sense that her whole hometown thought she would end up on Broadway. In college, they threw themselves into auditioning for shows. Then COVID arrived and tossed their professional plans askew. Both podcast hosts related, they said, to Jay’s descriptions of being unmoored.
“The ocean!” Jay said.
“I’ve said that to my therapist multiple times,” Flowers said.
“We’ve both had periods since graduating where we have felt really stuck,” Liddy added. “I just wish I could be my old self again — that girl who was defined by working hard, ‘She’s going to be a star.’”
There were 50 million 20-somethings in the United States, about 15% of the population, when “The Defining Decade” came out. This cohort is experiencing a stage of life that Jay describes as a modern phenomenon. For much of history, people didn’t have a full decade between leaving their parents’ homes and starting their own families. They settled down early — moving into their own homes, finding jobs, having children.
But a confluence of economic and social forces has meant that people now have a longer period between childhood and full-fledged adulthood. One reason is birth control. As oral contraceptives became readily available in the 1960s and 1970s, women were able to delay the decision to start families, and their labor force participation soared over 50%. There’s also student debt, which has prompted many recent graduates to move home with their parents. On top of all that, as religious affiliation has declined, more than half of Americans now derive their sense of self from work — meaning choosing a career isn’t just finding a source of livelihood but also of identity.
With child rearing and homebuying postponed, and the stakes of professional development heightened, a new phase of life has emerged: one of possibility and risk, exhilaration and crippling self-doubt. It’s a complicated time. And Jay, perusing the self-help section at Barnes & Noble one day, realized that while there were ample books about how to raise a child, there weren’t as many about how to keep raising yourself once you’re technically an adult, or at least not enough books with the kind of measured advice she thought young people deserved.
The first edition of “The Defining Decade” came out a few years after the 2008 financial crisis, when young people were graduating with debt into a historically bad job market. The second edition came out during the pandemic, as they graduated into a workplace turned upside down.
When the pandemic hit, Jay was incidentally in her own period of flux. She’d decided to leave behind her own comfortable routines by signing up to teach “The Defining Decade” in a program called Semester at Sea, in which students spend months on a cruise ship traveling the world. Jay’s book club meetings turned out to be among the most popular events on the ship. The room was always packed, the cookies ran out instantly and students watched as their classmates swapped their Colleen Hoover novels for “The Defining Decade.”
“When she’s talking to young people, she gives off the vibe that she’s rooting for you but would call you out on things you’re not doing,” said Athena Bo, 23, a Semester at Sea participant. “A lot of people passed by the room and would say stuff like, ‘Damn, that room is packed.’ ‘Damn, Meg Jay is superfamous.’”
To Bo, reading “The Defining Decade” sharpened the lessons she’d absorbed from her father growing up: “The example I always remember is when I went to McDonald’s, he would say, ‘If you want chicken nuggets, you’re going to have to order it for yourself.’ He would hold me up and be like, ‘You’ve got to ask for the chicken nuggets.’”
Obviously, chicken nuggets were a low-stakes request. A decade later, Bo is learning, from Jay, to ask for more: a job, for example, and a relationship.
As Jay was updating the book in 2020, she was getting dozens more reader emails. Some people told her they felt as if the pandemic had stolen their defining decade, sapping them of the motivation and opportunities to chase what they wanted. Others said that because they were locked down at home, they finally had the time to read her book.
Twenty-somethings were experiencing the unease that Jay had spent the past decade describing, but it was intensified by COVID isolation. Jahleane Dolne, 25, one TikTok fan of “The Defining Decade,” found herself applying for jobs from her parents’ home, scrolling LinkedIn while seated next to her high school cheerleader uniform and prom dress. Jasmine Yook, 30, who has also posted on TikTok about the book, reread Jay’s book at 29 and reflected on the gaps between where she wanted to be in her fashion career and where she had landed.
Jay responded to these readers with football coach pep. “This is your Great Depression,” she said. “This is your recession. This is your generational adversity, and what did you do? How did you respond? To say, ‘Well, I got scrappy and started a podcast’, or ‘I read 50 books I said I was going to read,’ that’s a metaphor or an example of how you respond when life gets difficult.”
And while much of her advice can sound intimidating, she isn’t against offering hacks. “You’re asking about formulas,” Jay said, over lunch, after a discussion about the balance between seeking joy now and working hard to lay the groundwork for joy in the years to come. “There actually is a very loose formula.”
Everyone at the table leaned forward.
“Happy successful people say that they spend about half their time thinking about the present, ‘What’s going to make me feel happy and successful now?,’ and about half thinking about the future,” Jay continued. “If somebody asked me about a formula, how do I balance between being happy in my 20s and being happy beyond, I would say probably about half and half.”
On the other side of a french fry platter, Liddy and Flowers nodded sagely. The advice wasn’t so much a panacea as a flash of hope. There was wisdom they could grasp onto. Somewhere, in the distance, there was land — or at the very least, their 30s.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Families & family life; Books; Pandemics; Psychologists; Student debt

Business indexing term: Subject: Student debt

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Institute for Shipboard Education; NAICS: 611310; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: United States; Lululemon Athletica Inc; Senses And Sensation; Mother's Day; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; United States Economy; Memory; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); Millennial Generation; Hoover, Colleen (1979 ); Parenting; Chickens; Linkedin Corporation; Youth; Nineteen Hundred Twenties; Knowles, Beyonce; Hiring And Promotion; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Instagram Inc; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Student Loans; Recession And Depression; Jay, Meg; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Workplace Environment; Theater; Education (K 12); Tiktok (Bytedance); Mcdonald's Corporation; Generation Z; Labor And Jobs; The Defining Decade: Why Your Twenties Matter And How To Make The Most Of Them Now (Book); Podcasts; Instant Messaging; Fast Food Industry; Travel And Vacations; Barnes & Noble Inc; Book Clubs; Quarantine (Life And Culture); Bars And Nightclubs; Business; Colleges And Universities; Manhattan (Nyc); Books And Literature; Age, Chronological

Title: What’s the Point of Your 20s? Ask the Patron Saint of Striving Youth.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 13, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-13T19:08:45Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813051943

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-s-point-your-20s-ask-patron-saint-striving/docview/2813051943/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

LinkedIn Opts To Pare Down China Presence Amid Adversity: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chang, Che

Publication info: Chang, Che. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/linkedin-opts-pare-down-china-presence-amid/docview/2811393753/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Microsoft, LinkedIn's owner, had already pulled the flagship networking site from China in 2021, leaving only a stripped-down app that catered to job seekers.
LinkedIn, the networking platform used by millions of employees and companies, said on Monday it will pare down its operations in China, capping a multiyear pullback that exemplified the challenges of running a foreign business in China.
The company, owned by Microsoft, said it will lay off 716 employees worldwide, including teams dedicated to engineering and marketing in China, because of slumping demand. It did not say how many of those layoffs will be in China.
LinkedIn will also shut its China job posting app, a bare-bones version of its international service, by August. Users of the app, called InCareer, could only search for jobs and not post or share articles the way they can on LinkedIn.
When LinkedIn started a Chinese-language version of its website in 2014, it charted a path that its peers, including Facebook and Google, had shied away from. It partnered with local firms and began censoring the content of millions of Chinese customers in accordance with Beijing's strict laws. Several U.S. journalists and activists said their profiles had been blocked because of "prohibited content." The company said at the time that while it opposed government censorship, its absence in the country could deprive Chinese professionals of the chance to make professional connections.
Yet over the years, the challenges for foreign and domestic social media platforms multiplied as the power of China's censorship machine ballooned under its leader, Xi Jinping. In 2021, LinkedIn closed its flagship networking service in China, citing compliance issues and a "significantly more challenging operating environment."
In a letter to employees, Ryan Roslansky, LinkedIn's chief executive, said the cuts were prompted by slower revenue growth and fluctuations in customer behavior. The news follows an overall slowdown in tech that has led to tens of thousands of layoffs this year by the largest companies, including Amazon, Meta and Google.
LinkedIn, which employs about 20,000 people, said Monday that while it was reducing operations in China and other countries, it plans to create 250 jobs in other areas.
Mr. Roslansky said it will retain a presence in China to help companies operating in the country hire and train employees from overseas.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Employees; Layoffs; Censorship; Social networks; Alliances

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Layoffs Social networks

Location: China

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/09/world/asia/linkedin-layoffs-china-microsoft.html

Title: LinkedIn Opts To Pare Down China Presence Amid Adversity:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 10, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Ne wspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811393753

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/linkedin-opts-pare-down-china-presence-amid/docview/2811393753/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Job Growth Keeps Vigor, A Wrinkle For the Fed: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Depillis, Lydia

Publication info: Depillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/job-growth-keeps-vigor-wrinkle-fed/docview/2810023187/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Employers added 253,000 jobs in April and unemployment fell to 3.4 percent, but the labor market's strength complicates the Fed's inflation fight.
The labor market is still defying gravity -- for now.
Employers added 253,000 jobs in April on a seasonally adjusted basis, the Labor Department reported Friday, in a departure from the cooling trend that had marked the first quarter and was expected to continue.
The unemployment rate was 3.4 percent, down from 3.5 percent in March, and matched the level in January, which was the lowest since 1969. Wages also popped slightly, growing 4.4 percent over the past year.
The higher-than-forecast job gain complicates the Federal Reserve's potential shift toward a pause in interest rate increases. Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chair, said on Wednesday that the central bank might continue to raise rates if new data showed the economy wasn't slowing enough to keep prices down.
It's also an indication that the failure of three banks and the resulting pullback on lending, which is expected to hit smaller businesses particularly hard, hasn't yet hamstrung job creation.
"All these things are telling us it's not a hard stop; it's creating a headwind, but not a debilitating headwind," said Carl Riccadonna, the chief U.S. economist at BNP Paribas. "A gradual downturn is happening, but it sure is stubborn and persistent in the trend." Despite the strong showing in April, the labor market continues to gently descend from blistering highs.
Downward revisions to the previous two months' data meaningfully altered the spring employment picture, subtracting a total of 149,000 jobs. That brings the three-month average to 222,000 jobs, a clear slowdown from the 400,000 added on average in 2022. Most economists expect a more marked downshift later in the year.
Job growth was broad-based, even if less vigorous than the eye-popping numbers of 2022, when the nation was rapidly digging out of a deep pandemic deficit. Leisure and hospitality added 31,000 jobs, down from a 73,000-job average over the past six months but another step toward its high in early 2020.
Even sectors that tend to be more sensitive to interest rates and had been leveling off in recent months, like construction, retail and manufacturing, eked out gains.
"There seems to be an underlying strength to the labor market that has puzzled analysts and policymakers alike," said Karin Kimbrough, the chief economist at LinkedIn. "Even when you see these pockets or cracks of weakness, they seem to reseal."
The labor market has been uncommonly tight since early 2021, as employers struggled to reverse a sudden mass layoff and navigate huge shifts in the demand for goods and services. That has benefited groups that have historically been at a disadvantage in the labor market.
Wages for those on the bottom of the pay scale rose faster than they had in decades. The unemployment rate for Black Americans reached its lowest point on record in April, at 4.7 percent, and the gap between the unemployment rates of white and Black people was also the smallest ever measured.
The share of people in their prime working years -- 25 to 54 years old -- participating in the labor market reached 83.3 percent, matching a level not seen since 2008. That rise has been powered by prime-aged women, who are participating at a rate never seen before, at 77.5 percent.
In recent months, that exceptional mismatch between the supply and demand for workers has been coming into balance.
Job postings, which had reached nearly double the number of available workers, tumbled in the first quarter. According to the job search website Indeed, which has more finely grained data, listed positions in marketing and human relations -- those most correlated with a company's growth plans -- are down 43 percent and 45 percent over the year.
At the same time, a rebound in immigration eased labor shortages, especially in fields like leisure and hospitality, and health care, allowing those to continue to grow quickly. And declines in sectors that had surged during the pandemic, such as transportation and warehousing, may have propelled more people into other fields with lots of openings for jobs that don't require college degrees, like hotels and restaurants.
The outflow from blue-chip internet companies like Google and Meta has been a particular boon for other industries that had been desperate for people with digital skills. United Airlines, which plans to hire 15,000 people this year, said this week that it had already picked up 120 people laid off by major tech employers.
That's why the upheaval in Silicon Valley, kicked off by a swift increase in borrowing costs that dried up venture capital, largely hasn't derailed those with the relative good fortune of losing jobs while the economy is still robust.
Katie Li, a 26-year-old software engineer in Palo Alto, Calif., was offered a job at a health technology company in late 2022. But after she had left her former job and before she could start the new one, the company rescinded the offer, saying that a few contracts had been paused and that it wasn't sure it could sustain the position. In a panic, she started applying elsewhere, sending out 200 applications over a few months.
That effort yielded three new offers, and Ms. Li picked one that she thought had a compelling mission, serving people on Medicaid. She started in March, making 71 percent of her old salary -- but like many of her friends who've lost positions lately, she is happy to be re-employed and have health insurance.
"Most people take slightly lower salaries, but compared to the normal person, they're still superhigh," Ms. Li said. "I think I was recognizing that other things are more important than career."
Given the labor market's surprising durability, most economic forecasters reason that the Federal Reserve's 10 successive interest rate increases have yet to fully filter through the economy. As they do, the likelihood of staffing reductions goes up -- but the distribution might look different than it has in recessions past.
The Conference Board recently published an index assessing the risk of job loss in different parts of the economy. Those with the most acute labor shortages, such as health care and local government, are at comparatively low risk. Those that thrive on low borrowing costs, such as construction, continue to face higher risk.
"We expect a more negative and profound effect of interest rates on the labor market in the second half of the year," said Frank Steemers, a senior economist at the Conference Board, noting that recent banking turmoil has also probably not translated into payrolls.
"If there's anything that would make you update your forecast to make it a deeper recession," he said, "definitely this would be it."
For now, though, most employers are taking a cautious approach, rather than intentionally downsizing. Many are first shedding contract workers; employment through temporary help services has fallen for the past year.
Erin Doehring is the human resources director for TAL Holdings, a collection of hardware and building supply stores in the Pacific Northwest that employs about 650 people. The company grew rapidly in 2021 and 2022 as more people moved to the small towns where its stores are.
But that slowed over the winter and early spring, as higher borrowing costs -- and heavy snowfall -- hindered home building and remodeling. The company hasn't laid anyone off, but it is thinking about reducing hours and shrinking by attrition. That reflects a general plateau in its retail category, which jumped in 2020 but has since receded. Ms. Doehring also said she had seen a higher volume of better-qualified applicants for the jobs that are open.
"We are definitely being more strategic about the positions we're hiring for, really keeping a closer eye on, 'Do we really need to backfill this position?"' Ms. Doehring said. "Should we leave this position open at the moment and reconsider at a later date?"
Photograph Ryan Criner working at a restaurant in February in Charleston, S.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN RAYFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Federal Reserve monetary policy; African Americans; Employers; Interest rates; Unemployment; Economists; Employment; Economic conditions; Pandemics; Labor market; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal Reserve monetary policy Employers Interest rates Unemployment Economists Employment Economic conditions Labor market Wages & salaries

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/05/business/economy/jobs-report-april.html

Title: Job Growth Keeps Vigor, A Wrinkle For the Fed:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810023187

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/job-growth-keeps-vigor-wrinkle-fed/docview/2810023187/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Job Growth Retains Vigor Despite Economic Worries

Author: DePillis, Lydia

Publication info: DePillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-job-growth-retains-vigor-despite-economic/docview/2809945657/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The labor market is still defying gravity — for now.
Employers added 253,000 jobs in April on a seasonally adjusted basis, the Labor Department reported Friday, in a departure from the cooling trend that had marked the first quarter and was expected to continue.
The unemployment rate was 3.4%, down from 3.5% in March, and matched the level in January, which was the lowest since 1969. Wages also popped slightly, growing 4.4% over the past year.
The higher-than-forecast job gain complicates the Federal Reserve’s potential shift toward a pause in interest rate increases. Fed Chair Jerome Powell said Wednesday that the central bank might continue to raise rates if new data showed that the economy wasn’t slowing enough to keep prices down.
It’s also an indication that the failure of three banks and the resulting pullback on lending, which is expected to hit smaller businesses particularly hard, hasn’t yet hamstrung job creation.
“All these things are telling us it’s not a hard stop; it’s creating a headwind, but not a debilitating headwind,” said Carl Riccadonna, chief U.S. economist at BNP Paribas. “A gradual downturn is happening, but it sure is stubborn and persistent in the trend.” Despite the strong showing in April, the labor market continues to gently descend from blistering highs.
Downward revisions to previous two months meaningfully altered the spring employment picture, subtracting a total of 149,000 jobs. That brings the three-month average to 222,000 jobs, a clear slowdown from the 400,000 added on average in 2022. Most economists expect a more marked downshift later in the year.
Job growth was broad-based, even if less than the eye-popping numbers of 2022, when the nation was rapidly digging out of a deep pandemic deficit. Leisure and hospitality added 31,000 jobs, down from a 73,000-job average over the past six months but another step toward its high in early 2020.
Even sectors that tend to be more sensitive to interest rates and had been leveling off in recent months, including construction, retail and manufacturing, eked out gains.
“There seems to be an underlying strength to the labor market that has puzzled analysts and policymakers alike,” said Karin Kimbrough, chief economist at LinkedIn. “Even when you see these pockets or cracks of weakness, they seem to reseal.”
The labor market has been uncommonly tight since early 2021, as employers struggled to reverse a sudden mass layoff and navigate huge shifts in the demand for goods and services. That has benefited groups that have historically been at a disadvantage in the labor market.
Wages for those on the bottom of the pay scale rose faster than they have in decades. The unemployment rate for Black Americans reached its lowest point on record in April, at 4.7%, and the gap between the unemployment rates of white and Black people was also the smallest ever measured.
The share of people in their prime working years — 25 to 54 years old — participating in the labor market reached 83.3%, matching a level not seen since 2008. That rise has been powered by prime-aged women, who are participating at a rate never seen before, at 77.5%.
In recent months, that exceptional mismatch between the supply and demand for workers has been coming into balance.
Job postings, which had reached nearly double the number of available workers, tumbled in the first quarter. According to job search website Indeed, which has more finely grained data, listed positions in marketing and human relations — those most correlated with a company’s growth plans — are down 43% and 45% over the year, respectively.
At the same time, a rebound in immigration eased labor shortages, especially in fields such as leisure and hospitality and health care, allowing those to continue to grow quickly. And declines in sectors that had surged during the pandemic, such as transportation and warehousing, may have propelled more people into other fields with lots of openings for jobs that don’t require college degrees, such as hotels and restaurants.
The outflow from blue-chip internet companies including Google and Meta has been a particular boon for other industries that had been desperate for people with digital skills. United Airlines, which plans to hire 15,000 people this year, said this week that it had already picked up 120 people laid off by major tech employers.
That’s why the upheaval in Silicon Valley, kicked off by a swift increase in borrowing costs that dried up venture capital, largely hasn’t derailed those with the relative good fortune of losing jobs while the economy is still robust.
Katie Li, a 26-year-old software engineer in Palo Alto, California, was offered a job at a health technology company in late 2022. But after she’d left her former job and before she could start the new one, the company rescinded the offer, saying that a few contracts had been paused and that it wasn’t sure it could sustain the position. In a panic, she started applying elsewhere, sending out 200 applications over a few months.
That effort yielded three new offers, and Li picked one that she thought had a compelling mission, serving people on Medicaid. She started in March, making 71% of her old salary — but like many of her friends who’ve lost positions lately, she is happy to be reemployed and have health insurance.
“Most people take slightly lower salaries, but compared to the normal person, they’re still super high,” Li said. “I think I was recognizing that other things are more important than career.”
Given the labor market’s surprising durability, most economic forecasters reason that the Federal Reserve’s 10 successive interest rate increases have yet to fully filter through the economy. As they do, the likelihood of staffing reductions goes up — but the distribution might look different than it has in recessions past.
The Conference Board recently published an index assessing the risk of job loss in different parts of the economy. Those with the most acute labor shortages, such as health care and local government, are at comparatively low risk. Those that thrive on low borrowing costs, such as construction, continue to face higher risk.
“We expect a more negative and profound effect of interest rates on the labor market in the second half of the year,” said Frank Steemers, a senior economist at the Conference Board, noting that recent banking turmoil has also probably not translated into payrolls.
“If there’s anything that would make you update your forecast to make it a deeper recession,” he said, “definitely this would be it.”
For now, though, most employers are taking a cautious approach, rather than intentionally downsizing. Many are first shedding contract workers; employment through temporary help services has fallen for the past year.
Erin Doehring is the human resources director for TAL Holdings, a collection of hardware and building supply stores in the Pacific Northwest that employs about 650 people. The company grew rapidly in 2021 and 2022 as more people moved to the small towns where its stores are.
But that slowed over the winter and early spring, as higher borrowing costs — and heavy snowfall — hindered home building and remodeling. The company hasn’t laid anyone off, but it is thinking about reducing hours and shrinking by attrition. That reflects a general plateau in its retail category, which jumped in 2020 but has since receded. Doehring also said she had seen a higher volume of better-qualified applicants for the jobs that are open.
“We are definitely being more strategic about the positions we’re hiring for, really keeping a closer eye on, ‘Do we really need to backfill this position?’” Doehring said. “Should we leave this position open at the moment and reconsider at a later date?”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Workers; African Americans; Employment; Economic conditions; Pandemics; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Employers; Interest rates; Unemployment; Economists; Labor market; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Employment Economic conditions Federal Reserve monetary policy Employers Interest rates Unemployment Economists Labor market Wages & salaries

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Linkedin Corporation; Arkansas; Hiring And Promotion; Inflation (Economics); United Airlines; Palo Alto (Calif); United States Economy; Paribas; Immigration And Emigration; Conference Board; Banking And Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; Restaurants; Shortages; Bnp Paribas; United States; Company Reports; Relocation Of Business; Unemployment; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; California; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Silicon Valley Bank; Google Inc; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); IndeedCom; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Recession And Depression; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Wages And Salaries; Pacific Northwestern States (Us); Computers And The Internet; University Of Arkansas; Labor Department (Us); Labor And Jobs; Silicon Valley (Calif); Powell, Jerome H; Business

Title: U.S. Job Growth Retains Vigor Despite Economic Worries

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-05T22:58:22Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2809945657

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-job-growth-retains-vigor-despite-economic/docview/2809945657/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ex-Student Arrested in California Stabbings: [National Desk]

Author: Hubler, Shawn

Publication info: Hubler, Shawn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-student-arrested-california-stabbings/docview/2809341170/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Residents in Davis reported seeing the man, 21, pacing in a park not far from where one of the fatal stabbings occurred. The attacks left two men dead and one woman injured.
DAVIS, Calif. -- A 21-year-old man, who was a University of California, Davis, student until last week, has been arrested in connection with a harrowing series of three stabbings in the college town, the police announced on Thursday.
The man, Carlos Dominguez of Davis, was booked on suspicion of murder after residents on Wednesday called the police with more than a dozen reports that they had seen a slight, young man who fit witnesses' description of the suspect, wandering near the park where one of the attacks happened, the police said.
Mr. Dominguez was carrying "a hunting-style knife" when he was taken into custody on Wednesday, the police said. He was initially held on a weapons charge before he was arrested Thursday afternoon on two counts of murder and one count of attempted murder.
The announcement, which occurred just hours after a memorial service for one of the stabbing victims, was met with relief in the city of about 70,000 people west of Sacramento. The three stabbings over five days had shocked the residents of Davis, where the last reported homicide occurred in 2019.
"A murderer is off the streets and our families will sleep easier tonight," Will Arnold, the mayor, said. "Now the work begins, in earnest, to heal as a community, to take back our shared spaces and to move forward as one."
On the street where the police said Mr. Dominguez shared a house with several roommates, neighbors said they were still processing the news that they had been living near a young man who is accused of killing fellow community members. They said Mr. Dominguez and his roommates hosted frequent parties and worked out in the garage with the door open but otherwise did not socialize much with the neighborhood, where most residents are not students.
"I'm still coming to grips," said Richard Houck, 82, whose home was behind police tape for most of the day while officers executed a search warrant at Mr. Dominguez's address, a rental that Mr. Houck said had been occupied for years by a series of students.
"It can happen anywhere," he said in an interview after the arrest. "It can happen right next door to you, right?"
Mr. Dominguez, who was also known as Carlos Reales Dominguez, was a third-year biological sciences student at U.C. Davis who "was separated for academic reasons" on April 25, according to the university.
It is unclear whether Mr. Dominguez knew any of the three victims, Darren Pytel, the city's police chief, said.
The first was David Henry Breaux, 50, a Stanford University graduate who slept outdoors and was known to locals for a yearslong project in which he gathered and curated definitions of compassion. He was found dead at about 11:20 a.m. on April 27 in a park where he routinely talked to residents at the city's farmers' market. Colloquially known as "the Compassion Guy," Mr. Breaux had been stabbed "many, many times," Chief Pytel said in a City Council meeting this week.
Two days after that first attack, Karim Abou Najm, 20, a student majoring in computer science at U.C. Davis, was killed on a bike path after an altercation in a neighborhood park at 9:14 p.m. on Saturday. A witness who lives near the path told the police that he had overheard a disturbance and rushed to the scene to find the student bleeding from multiple stab wounds. He described seeing a young, curly-haired man scrambling to get away on the victim's bike.
As authorities expedited DNA analysis of evidence found at the two crime scenes, a woman in a homeless encampment east of the city's downtown reported a third attack late Monday, saying she had been stabbed repeatedly through the wall of her tent.
The woman, Kimberlee Guillory, survived, the police said, adding that she remained hospitalized and was alert and improving. The victim and nearby witnesses described the assailant as a curly-haired young man in dark clothing who had been lurking near the encampment.
"We believe that all three are connected, and we have evidence and information that they are," Chief Pytel said.
It was unclear on Thursday whether Mr. Dominguez had any representation. He is scheduled to be arraigned Friday in Yolo County Superior Court.
According to a LinkedIn profile, he graduated in 2020 from an Oakland high school after interning for two years with local mentoring programs for students interested in a career in medicine. One program, the Oakland Health Pathways Partnership, featured an interview with him on its website under a truncated version of his name in which he said that hoped someday to become a doctor.
"I got into health care to help my grandmother -- she has type 2 diabetes," Mr. Dominguez, then a student at Castlemont High School, is quoted as saying in the interview. "Maybe people think it's boring or it's scary if you're a surgeon and you see all that blood, but saving someone's life makes you feel good about yourself."
Before the arrest, anxiety mounted in the leafy cul-de-sacs, Little League fields and residence halls of Davis, a city where locals normally feel safe enough each summer to keep their windows open to capture the "Delta breeze" that blows from San Francisco Bay. This week, local businesses closed early, university events were canceled, and evening classes shifted to remote instruction.
The small Davis police force set up a tip line, moved to extended shifts and enlisted the help of local, state and federal law enforcement agencies to help process hundreds of reports.
Then on Wednesday afternoon, calls came in about someone matching the description of the suspect. Carter Carlson, 23, an employee at the elementary school abutting the park where Mr. Najm died, said he was placing flowers on a makeshift memorial along the bike path when he noticed a lone figure, with a disheveled appearance, on the nearby play area behaving strangely. He called the police.
"He was pacing back and forth on a child's bridge between two playgrounds," said Mr. Carlson.
He added that when another man entered the park, talking on his cellphone, the young man noticed and began to meander away, walking toward a local strip mall. Mr. Carlson hopped into his Honda Civic, he said, and followed him until he lost sight of him.
Shortly after, he said, he saw several police cars and, eventually, at about 5 p.m., police officers leading the man away.
A native of Davis, Mr. Carlson credited not only the police, but the community itself for the arrest.
"Everyone has been very shaken, and everyone has taken this very hard," he said, "but this community has really come together to support those who have been so unfortunately attacked."
Jill Cowan contributed reporting and Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Jill Cowan contributed reporting and Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Students; Community; Parks & recreation areas; Arrests; Search warrants; Murders & murder attempts; Stabbings; Homeless encampments

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/04/us/davis-stabbings-arrest-california.html

Title: Ex-Student Arrested in California Stabbings:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 5, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2809341170

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-student-arrested-california-stabbings/docview/2809341170/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 5, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Enjoying, or Suffering, the Internet? Read This.: [Personal Tech]

Author: Lindner, Emmett

Publication info: Lindner, Emmett. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/enjoying-suffering-internet-read-this/docview/2808459780/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Madison Malone Kircher, who covers online culture, recently started a newsletter that digs into the occasionally viral, sometimes strange and often heartwarming trends that take over the internet.
Times Insider explains who we are and what we do and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
As an internet reporter for the Styles desk at The New York Times, Madison Malone Kircher has covered a viral T-shirt paid for in blood, A.I.-generated selfies and a marketing professor who told his students their final exam would be canceled -- if they went viral on TikTok. And that's just in the past few months.
The internet can seem like an ever-expanding landscape, filled with breaking news, dance challenges and even drama over olive oil. In It Happened Online, a weekly, subscriber-only newsletter that debuted last week, Ms. Kircher unearths the wackiest (and most uplifting) stories from the deepest corners of the web.
It Happened Online was derived from Ms. Kircher's column by the same name. The mission, too, has remained the same: to compile and distill internet trends.
In an interview, Ms. Kircher discussed how she chooses what topics to focus on, the death of the Twitter blue check mark and whether anyone can really be "too online." This conversation has been edited and condensed.
How would you describe the mission of the newsletter?
It's going to be covering delicious little tidbits that maybe don't warrant a full story in The New York Times, but certainly do warrant, in my world, a text message or a DM. Something in a group chat to my friends saying, "Hey, this is funny," or "Hey, this is weird -- look at this olive oil C.E.O. feuding with someone on LinkedIn." That's the way I envision it: this patchwork quilt of things that on their own don't make a piece for The Times, but together make a really fun lunch read.
What do you hope readers take away?
I want people to come away from it as the most internet-culturally versed people in their group chats. I am very much the friend in all of my circles who gets called upon when, say, the teens are drinking BORGs, which is an acronym that stands for "blackout rage gallon." What does that mean? I'll tell you, and hopefully you will be able to take that knowledge and be your own expert.
There is absolutely an appetite for this sort of content -- it absolutely speaks to a cultural change. Internet culture doesn't happen in a vacuum. It's not, "Here's traditional culture; the internet's over there in a weird box." They happen one and the same. I like that I get to, with levity and a little bit of silliness, treat those things as seriously as we treat what we think of as traditional culture.
What trends do you notice from your reporting?
Experiences are increasingly being filtered online and I'm excited to cover that. We had a piece a couple weeks ago about rejection parties for high school students who were not accepted into college -- the experience happens on TikTok now.
We've also watched the demise of Twitter play out -- I don't know if it's a demise because we're all still there.
R.I.P. blue check marks, though.
You know, I'm not really mourning mine. You can read about why in the first edition of the newsletter.
The whole launch issue is a good example of what we're aiming to do. We talk a little bit about the death of the Twitter check mark and what that means, but I've also got a really lovely interview with these singer-songwriters from TikTok who wrote an accidental hit.
Do you think there is such a thing as being "too online"?
Absolutely -- and it's me. If you subscribe to my newsletter, you don't have to be "too online." The question in my mind when I'm reporting is: How does this matter offline? What does this mean for me and my friends and the rest of the folks of the world who are just living our lives on our phones? If you can keep that question somewhere in your brain as you're enjoying (or suffering) on the internet, I think you haven't quite reached the "chronically online" diagnosis.
What are you focusing on now? What do you predict is going to be the next big thing online?
Something we're seeing across every social platform is that we are all creators now. That has been happening, slowly, for years. The first time I noticed it was during the Facebook Live boom when the phrase "Hi guys" was popping off. It started appearing in the lexicon of people like your aunt, turning on Facebook Live and being like, "Hi, I'm just popping on. We're going to wait a minute so everybody can get here." That approach as a creator has become more and more prevalent in the way that we engage with social media apps.
I think it's an equalizer. But it has created this interesting thing I've been witnessing where if we're all creators, what's left? Who are we talking to? Who is the audience? And that's something I'm excited to watch as social media becomes even bigger than it already is.
To receive weekly coverage of internet trends and culture, sign up for the It Happened Online newsletter at nytimes.com/newsletters .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Internet; Trends; Newsletters; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/03/insider/it-happened-online-newsletter.html

Title: Enjoying, or Suffering, the Internet? Read This.:   [Personal Tech ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 3, 2023

column: Times Insider

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2808459780

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/enjoying-suffering-internet-read-this/docview/2808459780/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Education Divide Can Be Bridged: [Op-Ed]

Author: Zara, Christopher

Publication info: Zara, Christopher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/education-divide-can-be-bridged/docview/2807257727/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It was probably the most nerve-racking job interview of my life.
Across the table from me sat a person who had it all: years of professional experience, confidence and, perhaps most impressively from my vantage point, undergraduate and graduate degrees from two of the top journalism schools in the country. Here I was with a 10th-grade education and a G.E.D., hoping to impress a possible future colleague in an industry that expects impressive credentials.
It's normal to be anxious in a job interview, so in a sense my desire for approval that day was not out of the ordinary. Except I wasn't interviewing for the job. I was the interviewer. More specifically, I was a newly promoted digital editor at a major business magazine looking to hire my first staff writer.
I've never forgotten this dynamic: being in a managerial role in the New York City media industry -- top of my game, as they say -- and somehow still worrying that a job candidate might look up my educational background and wonder what right I had to be where I am.
That's the real power of education.
When we talk about the education divide in this country, it's often through the lens of political and cultural differences. College-educated Americans are assumed to be more progressive, vote Democratic, live in cities and work in professions that before the pandemic required being in an office. Their non-degreed counterparts, the story goes, tend to be more conservative, rural and employed in the kinds of blue-collar jobs that have been disappearing for the last 40 years.
Academic studies and polling data back up these stereotypes to some extent, but they are only one piece of a bigger picture of the giant rifts that have formed and continue to form between Americans who benefit from higher education and those who don't.
The education divide is equally about who gives us a chance, who lets us in the room and which rooms we get to be in. It's what made my encounter as a non-degreed editor interviewing a job candidate with a master's from a top journalism school feel so poignant. Had our roles in the interview been reversed that day, it's hard to imagine that my résumé would even have been considered.
Even after 17 years as a working journalist, I can't take being in the room for granted. Job hunting in the white-collar world can be an especially demoralizing exercise when you have no formal education. I still recall a personal low point in the summer of 2016, when I was swept up in a large round of layoffs -- not unlike the kind we've been hearing so much about recently. I was 45, newly married and suddenly severed from the online news publication where I'd worked as a reporter and editor. I felt good about my prospects, but despite having a decade of full-time newsroom experience under my belt, I couldn't win the precious attention of hiring managers in media.
In fact, I couldn't even get my résumé in front of them. Without a bachelor's degree -- long considered the de facto minimum qualification for a career in journalism -- my online job applications were likely being swallowed up by algorithmic forces beyond my control, lost to the void of hiring software that was built to weed out the undesirable. Thanks to résumé screening, my years of experience no longer counted for me as much as my lack of schooling counted against me.
This was an era when software start-ups like Lever and Greenhouse were attracting big investors with the promise of building next-generation platforms for recruitment and hiring. In my 2016 search, finding a job seemed to be all about pointing and clicking, filling out fields, pressing send and hoping for the best. Technology had removed key frictions from the application process, necessitating a new kind of automated gate keeping. Employers, like romance seekers on dating websites, assumed they knew exactly what they were looking for. Your chances of getting through the filters were wholly dependent on having a long list of predetermined attributes.
And for journalism, those attributes included a college-level education. I quickly learned during my discouraging job search that summer how easy it is to get ensnared by an applicant tracking system when your schooling stops at a G.E.D. or when you have gaps in your job history because of struggles with addiction or when you spent your 20s working in retail. With nuance, I could perhaps explain my unusual back story to a human being, but how do you reason with a portal?
The good news is, future job searches may not always be as bleak as mine have been. Companies from Google to G.M. to Delta Air Lines are dropping college degree requirements for many roles, focusing instead on skills-based hiring, a philosophy that emphasizes people over pedigrees. Some high-profile chief executives, including Ryan Roslansky of LinkedIn, have been vocal about the benefits of a skills-based approach for companies looking to broaden their talent pipelines. And the Business Roundtable introduced its Multiple Pathways Initiative with the goal of improving diversity, equity and inclusion at all levels of corporate America by emphasizing "the value of skills" in recruitment, retention and advancement. This movement is not new, but the tight labor market, along with some of the inequities that were made more apparent by the pandemic, has brought it to the fore.
Having spent so many years in a profession where college is the default starting point, I suspect that it will take more than a few adjustments to H.R. software filters to produce meaningful change. Consider the ever-persistent education wage gap, which has been widening for decades and by some measures got even worse during the past few years. Recently updated data published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York indicated that the median annual wage for younger workers with a bachelor's degree was $ 52,000 in 2022, compared with $ 34,320 for high school graduates in the same age group. Meanwhile, wage gaps along racial and gender lines persist at all education levels, as evidenced by a 2021 report from the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce. Education can be a reasonably reliable predictor of lifetime earnings, the report found, but it's only one part of a "complex equation."
It's probably also worth pointing out that most studies you'll read about the education divide are written by people on one side of it. The same holds true for most news articles. Can we be so surprised that the media presents an incomplete picture of higher education when so few journalists navigate the working world without a four-year degree?
Assumptions around higher education just need to evolve. I still remember the boss at a weekly newspaper where I once worked who told me to toss résumés in the garbage if they didn't have a college listed on them. Changing hearts and minds is hard, but changing habits is harder. One 2022 survey conducted by Morning Consult found that even though 72 percent of employers said they didn't believe a college degree was a great indicator of a person's skills, more than half still hired candidates from degree programs anyway because they saw doing so as a "less risky choice."
Even I understand why they feel that way. When I was interviewing candidates for that staff writer position, I can't recall a single résumé that didn't include a four-year degree. Most of the people I end up working with in journalism are college graduates, many of whom rightly saw college as their ticket to a better life. And most of them are talented, driven and more than qualified.
Higher education is always going to be a great way to secure professional opportunities and ensure the chance for upward mobility. Maybe it's even the best way. But need it be the only way?
Christopher Zara, a senior editor at Fast Company, is the author of the forthcoming memoir "Uneducated."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page A23.

ERIC Subject: Degree Requirements; High School Graduates; Journalism; Journalism Education; Employment Interviews; Personnel Selection; Blue Collar Occupations; Grade 10; Editing; Educational Technology; Interviews; Cultural Differences; Wages; Higher Education; Educational Background; Job Search Methods; Track System (Education)

Subject: Journalism; Software; Higher education; Hiring; Pandemics; Employment interviews

Business indexing term: Subject: Hiring Employment interviews

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/26/opinion/value-college-degree-higher-education.html

Title: The Education Divide Can Be Bridged:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.23

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 29, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2807257727

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/education-divide-can-be-bridged/docview/2807257727/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 29, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Microsoft's Bing Is China's Most Diligent Censor, Report Says: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Steven Lee Myers

Publication info: Steven Lee Myers. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/microsofts-bing-is-chinas-most-diligent-censor/docview/2806330521/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Researchers from the Citizen Lab, a cybersecurity research group, found that the most diligent censor in China is Microsoft's search engine Bing, the only foreign search engine operating in the country.
China's internet censorship is well known, but a report has quantified the extent of it, uncovering more than 66,000 rules controlling the content that is available to people using search engines.
The most diligent censor, by at least one measure, is Microsoft's search engine Bing, the only foreign search engine operating in the country, according to the report, which was released on Wednesday by the Citizen Lab, a cybersecurity research group at the University of Toronto.
The findings suggested that China's censorship apparatus had become not only more pervasive, but also more subtle. The search engines, including Bing, have created algorithms to "hard censor" searches deemed to be politically sensitive by providing no results or by limiting the results to selected sources, which are usually government agencies or state news organizations that follow the Communist Party's line.
"You might get no results if it is a very sensitive topic, but if your query is subject to this kind of self-censorship, what happens is you actually appear to get results as normal, but that's not actually happening," said Jeffrey Knockel, a senior researcher at Citizen Lab and an author of the report. "You're getting results only from certain pre-authorized websites."
The organization's researchers studied eight online platforms that offer search tools: the search engines Baidu, Sogou and Bing; the social media sites Weibo, Douyin, Bilibili and Baidu Zhidao; and the e-commerce giant Jingdong.
All are subject to extensive legal restrictions that have long censored criminal activity, obscenity, pornography, violence and gore, in addition to virtually any political, ethnic or religious content viewed as threatening to Communist Party rule and social stability.
More recent restrictions have extended to defamation of the country's heroes or martyrs, illegal surrogacy and misleading or false information about Covid-19 in Beijing.
Each of the companies have created mechanisms to comply with the government's ever-evolving restrictions.
The report found that Weibo, China's equivalent of Twitter, restricted search results for the term "Chinese spy balloon" so that only information from official Chinese sources would appear to those seeking to learn about the surveillance airship shot down by the United States in February.
Baidu blocked all results for searches that included the country's leader, Xi Jinping, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the international warrant for the Russian president's arrest issued days ahead of Mr. Xi's visit to Moscow in March.
The report said that the Chinese tech companies had adopted more rules than Bing, one of the few foreign tech platforms allowed in the country, but compared with Baidu, Bing's rules were broader and affected more search results. They also on average restricted results from more domains.
Caitlin Roulston, a spokeswoman for Microsoft, said the company would look into the findings but had not yet fully analyzed them. "We are reaching out to Citizens Lab directly to get more information so that we can conduct any further investigation needed," she said.
Microsoft is one of the few foreign technology companies that still operates inside China, and it has acknowledged that to do so required complying with the country's censorship laws, something other companies, most prominently Google, refused to do.
Conditions in China have often been fraught for Microsoft, with the company's products facing crackdowns from the authorities. In 2019, Bing itself was blocked temporarily. In 2021, Microsoft shut down LinkedIn in China after seven years in the country, citing regulatory and competitive obstacles.
Mr. Knockel said the study reinforced the argument that foreign tech companies could do little to restrict censorship or other demands from the government. China, for example, has signaled that it will restrict the operations of artificial intelligence in chat bots, which Microsoft has already unveiled for Bing.
"Just simply allowing American tech companies to do business in China isn't going to solve any of the censorship or larger human rights issues that we would like to be solved in China," Mr. Knockel said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Search engines; Censorship; Political parties; Pornography & obscenity; Cybersecurity

Location: China

Company / organization: Name: Citizen Lab; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/26/business/china-censored-search-engine.html

Title: Microsoft's Bing Is China's Most Diligent Censor, Report Says:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 26, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2806330521

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/microsofts-bing-is-chinas-most-diligent-censor/docview/2806330521/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 26, 2023

Last updated: 2024-06-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Reliable Digs For Distant Gigs: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Kaufman, Joanne

Publication info: Kaufman, Joanne. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reliable-digs-distant-gigs/docview/2804560957/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Almost a decade ago, when Lorraine Toussaint auditioned to play Vee Parker, a character who figured prominently in the second season of the Netflix series "Orange Is the New Black," the gig was designated a "local hire" by the production company.
Translation: You must live within 60 miles of the shooting location. But the production has no obligation to get you there, lodge you there or pay you a per diem.
The "Orange Is the New Black" shooting location: New York City. Ms. Toussaint's location: Los Angeles.
She got the job and decided that the addition of a shiny new credit to her résumé would far outweigh the damage that moving costs and temporary rentals would do to her bank account. "It was an important career job for me, and it moved the needle," said Ms. Toussaint, now a series regular on the CBS drama "The Equalizer."
Actors who go out of town for work in the theater, on a television series or a movie have more to worry about than memorizing their lines: Where can they stay for the month, six months, a year that their contract specifies, and still stay within their budget?
The ease of the task depends on where they are in the cast or on the call sheet. Big names get the red carpet treatment -- a real estate agent to scout possibilities, amenity-rich apartments or houses in the location of their choice, and sometimes a car and driver.
Somewhat lesser lights may get a relocation stipend to cover the flights and the costs of getting set up in their temporary location, but they have to do their own house hunting. Others, like Ms. Toussaint, take a gamble and pay their own way.
In her case, both money and time were tight. She was due at Kaufman Astoria Studios, in Queens, within three or four days. At the time, she knew only of Craigslist, and cycled through three apartments during her tenure on the series, each one more ghastly than the last. She was forced to vacate a sublet on the Upper West Side when the leaseholder was evicted for nonpayment of rent. "He had kept the money I gave him rather than passing it on to the landlord," Ms. Toussaint said.
That particular place, she recalled, "was full of clumps of hairy material and a questionable stain on the bed. And the bathroom had peeling paint. I stood on a chair and used a spatula to rake chips off the ceiling."
"What can I tell you?" she added. "I was a struggling actor."
The High Life (or Maybe Not)
"Many performers coming to town may not want to feel they're just passing through," said Mickey Conlon, an associate broker at Douglas Elliman, who has helped big names find appropriate temporary quarters.
"It starts very broad and can get very granular: Does the place have Apple TV and a Netflix account? And suddenly we're in the audiovisual business," added Mr. Conlon, who with his husband and business partner, Tom Postilio, found a townhouse for Barry Manilow and his husband, Garry Kief, when Mr. Manilow came to New York from Palm Springs in 2013 and in 2019 to do limited-run shows.
"It really changed things," Mr. Manilow said. "We were able to have our dogs with us, and to have those creatures greet you at the door. We were out of town, but every night after the performance it felt like I was coming home."
The precise nature and quality of a performer's temporary residence are part of the compensation package. "These deals are negotiated on a case-by-case basis," said Ryan Conway, the owner of Architect Theatrical, a Broadway and Off Broadway general management firm.
During the pandemic, Mr. Conway said, a lot of actors moved out of New York with their families and put down roots elsewhere. "If they get cast in a show that will bring them back to New York, a housing stipend becomes pretty important," he said. "They may not take the job unless it makes sense to support two households. I'm having more of those conversations now."
It's one big headache for out-of-town actors who don't have a lot of money or bargaining chips and find that a stipend won't take them very far. Couch surfing puts a strain on backs and friendships. Rentals of less than a year are hard to come by, and rentals of less than 30 days are legally problematic. Working with a real estate broker often means paying a fee. (For perspective, most actors are not rich. The median wage for actors was $ 23.48 an hour in May 2021, according to the most recent data available from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.)
These days, many actors and other entertainment professionals turn to the Lee List, a by-invitation-only peer-to-peer platform that posts ads for the apartments and houses that its members are offering for rent in cities around the country and around the world. New York, Los Angeles, Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, Nashville, Santa Fe, N.M., Vancouver, B.C., Paris, and Tel Aviv (and Milford, Conn.) are just some of those represented.
A property is displayed along with a picture and relevant information -- for example the number of bedrooms, the amenities, when it will be available and for how long, and, of course, the rent. Interested parties fill out a contact form at the bottom of a posting.
The list is the creation of Heather Lee, a Los Angeles-based actor who relocated to New York when she was cast as Tessie Tura ("You Gotta Get a Gimmick") in the 2003 Broadway revival of "Gypsy," and vividly recalled the difficulty in nailing down a home. "I had to pick up my life and move, and in those days there was no Facebook, no Airbnb.
"I did get a moving stipend, but finding a place was up to me," continued Ms. Lee, who initially stayed with the friend of a friend, then through the friend of another friend, she found a rental she could afford on the Upper West Side.
Give 'em Shelter
The experience made her want to smooth the way for others. When actors booked a national tour or a job at a regional theater and sent out emails offering their homes for sublet, Ms. Lee diligently spread the word among her buddies.
Soon enough she was fielding emails from actors she didn't know. "Hey, I hear you've got this great contact list," began a typical message. "I have an apartment I'm trying to rent out for a few months. Would you send this notice out for me?" Or someone would write and say, "I just got a job and I'm scrambling for a place to live...."
Ms. Lee began forwarding these requests to others in her address book. Sometimes she would email the apartment hunters and ask when precisely they needed a place, in what part of New York City (or wherever) and for how long. "People started telling me I should start charging, but I wasn't looking for that," she said. "I just wanted to help my fellow artists."
And yet, as the inbox traffic grew to a jam, Ms. Lee decided, in 2009, to establish a dedicated Gmail account and charge $ 5 per email blast to what was then 300 colleagues. A Broadway producer friend came up with the name Lee List, and in 2013 -- with steady users then at 6,000 -- Ms. Lee launched the website that also acts as a marketplace for furniture, jobs and other goods and services.
The roster, which has grown to more than 20,000, includes writers, directors, choreographers, producers, designers, agents, grips, managers and actors -- among them Ms. Toussaint, who in early March was zeroing in on a "lovely flat" that would be available during an upcoming trip to London.
"It's cheaper than a hotel," said Jeff Greenberg, a casting director who, during one trip to New York from his home in Los Angeles, stayed in a theater district rental with impressive décor: the Tony Award won by the lease holder, Paul Kreppel, an actor, director and producer. "I'd never had a Tony as a roommate before," Mr. Greenberg said.
Lee List members are an international group, but with a concentration in New York and Los Angeles. Some 95 percent of the members are in the entertainment industry, but even if they're in another business, they've likely got some connection to the arts community -- for example, a yoga instructor with showbiz clients.
Ms. Lee says this all stands to reason: "The model is based on one degree of separation," she said. "Every member knows at least one other member."
So it seems. Cass and Andy Lilien (she's a jewelry designer, he's a director of photography) own and live in a building on the Lower East Side with two rental units, both popular on the Lee List. Currently in residence: Jonathan Glew, the associate director of a new Broadway production of "A Doll's House."
"Jonathan mentioned that he had worked on the recent London production of 'The Seagull,' " Ms. Lilien said. "and it just so happened that one of our regulars had been in the cast. So we took a selfie and sent it to her."
While someone at the Lee List reviews all the postings before they're uploaded, "we're not a real estate company. We don't take a commission," Ms. Lee said. "People agree to certain rules when they become a member -- that they will treat one another with respect. We expect that the pictures are an accurate representation of the property." Membership can be -- and has been -- revoked for conduct unbecoming, such as failing to honor the terms of a financial agreement.
The invitation request form asks questions like, How long have you known your friend? How did you meet? Are you work colleagues? What is the nature of your relationship now? Then there is an open-ended request: Tell us more about your friend. The form also asks for an identifying website link, such as an entry on the internet Broadway database (IBDB) or the internet movie database (IMDB) or LinkedIn.
Once welcomed to the fold, people can join for a month ( $ 14.95), for three months ( $ 39.95) or for a year ( $ 89.95). Membership allows Lee clients to view the real estate on offer.
In mid-March, there were 14 rental openings in Atlanta, including a guesthouse with a pool for $ 3,000, as well as 135 in Los Angeles and 22 in New York. A one-bedroom furnished apartment on the Lower East Side was going for $ 2,600 a month with a flexible end date, while a furnished studio in the same neighborhood will be available starting in late June for $ 5,750 a month. It is the responsibility of those renting out their apartments to follow the rules of their building and the laws of their municipality. In New York State for example, the multiple dwelling law prohibits short-term rentals (fewer than 30 days) in buildings with three or more units.
Some members get a little bit more, perhaps, than they bargained for.
When Beth Malone was cast as the adult version of Alison Bechdel in the original Broadway production of "Fun Home" in 2015, she and her wife, Rochelle Schoppert, posted their three-bedroom house in Los Angeles on the Lee List. Except for a few months here and there, the property has been rented out for the past eight years.
"I drive by my house and stalk it," said Ms. Malone, who's now part of the cast of the forthcoming Apple TV+ crime drama "City on Fire." "Because people from the Lee List are living there, we feel they're treating it better than others might.
"They invited us over, and we saw that they moved the furniture," she added. "And now it's cuter than when we lived there."
Photograph Heather Lee, above, created the Lee List site in 2013 to help her fellow actors find temporary homes in cities where they had work. Lorraine Toussaint, right, is one of 20,000 list members. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; CLARK HODGIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1); Andy Lilien, a director of photography, and his wife, Cass Lilien, a jewelry designer (below, at top left) own and live in a building on the Lower East Side with two units they often rent to Lee List members.; Andy and Cass Lilien rent out two units. 'I try to make the apartments really homey,' Ms. Lilien says.; Jonathan Glew rents his apartment from the Liliens. One of their regulars had worked with him in London. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLARK HODGIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Jeff Greenberg stayed in a New York theater district rental where the lease holder's Tony Award was on display. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Beth Malone, left, and her wife, Rochelle Schoppert, rent out their three-bedroom house in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Left, Lorraine Toussaint, another Lee List member, in "Orange Is the New Black." She cycled through three apartments during her tenure on the series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA MIGLIO/NETFLIX) (RE6) This article appeared in print on page RE1, RE6.

Subject: Electronic mail systems; Broadway theater; Actors; Rentals; Community theater; Apartments; Alliances

Location: New York City New York; Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/21/realestate/actors-temporary-housing.html

Title: Reliable Digs For Distant Gigs:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 23, 2023

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2804560957

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspap ers/reliable-digs-distant-gigs/docview/2804560957/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Like LinkedIn, but for G.O.P. Staff Only: [National Desk]

Author: Swan, Jonathan; Haberman, Maggie

Publication info: Swan, Jonathan; Haberman, Maggie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/like-linkedin-g-o-p-staff-only/docview/2803755874/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: No matter the Republican, the effort has set a goal of up to 20,000 potential officials in a database akin to a right-wing LinkedIn.
If a Republican enters the Oval Office in 2025, whether it's Donald J. Trump or someone else, there is a good chance that president will turn to the same electronic database to staff the White House and federal agencies.
Think of it as a right-wing LinkedIn. This so-called Project 2025 -- part of a $ 22 million presidential transition operation at a scale never attempted before in conservative politics -- is being led by the Heritage Foundation, a group that has been staffing Republican administrations since the Reagan era.
Heritage usually compiles its own personnel lists, and spends far less doing so. But for this election, after conservatives and Mr. Trump himself decried what they viewed as terrible staffing decisions made during his administration, more than 50 conservative groups have temporarily set aside rivalries to team up with Heritage on the project, set to start Friday.
They have already identified several thousand potential recruits and have set a goal of having up to 20,000 potential administration officials in their database by the end of 2024, according to Kevin Roberts, the president of Heritage. Heritage has contracted the technology company Oracle to build a secure personnel database, Dr. Roberts said.
"In 2016, the conservative movement was not prepared to flood the zone with conservative personnel," Dr. Roberts said. "On Jan. 20, 2025, things will be very different. This database will prepare an army of vetted, trained staff to begin dismantling the administrative state from Day 1."
Heritage and its project partners have already briefed Mr. Trump and Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and their teams, Dr. Roberts said, as well as staff members for other current and potential candidates, including Nikki Haley, the former ambassador to the United Nations; the entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy; and former Vice President Mike Pence. They plan to give private briefings to all conservative candidates.
The glaring problem with such an effort is that the various Republican hopefuls would most likely use different staffing criteria. Mr. Trump, the clear front-runner, cares far more about personal loyalty than ideological convictions.
Indeed, he spent the bulk of his presidency trying to root out people whom he perceived as aligned with political critics, such as the Bush family, or Obama administration officials.
In meetings at Mar-a-Lago over the past two years, Mr. Trump has repeatedly complained that his first administration was full of "snakes" and "traitors." Those he complains about the most are not career bureaucrats but instead people like William P. Barr, a former Barry Goldwater supporter whom Mr. Trump himself selected as his attorney general.
Dr. Roberts has anticipated the Trump challenge -- and, though he doesn't advertise it this way, he has built his project around it. The key people involved with the Heritage-led database served in the former president's administration. They include James Bacon, a Trump loyalist who worked in the White House Office of Presidential Personnel under one of Mr. Trump's most trusted aides, John McEntee. In the final year of the Trump administration, Mr. Bacon helped Mr. McEntee overhaul the government's hiring process. They developed a questionnaire to vet government employees' loyalty to Mr. Trump and his "America First" agenda.
Typically, a new president is allowed to replace around 4,000 "political appointees" -- a revolving layer that sits atop the federal work force. Below the political layer lies a long-term work force of more than two million, who have strong employment protections meant to make it harder for a new president of a different political party to fire them. These protections, enshrined in law, established a civil service that is supposed to be apolitical -- with federal officials accumulating subject matter and institutional expertise over long careers in the service of both Republican and Democratic presidents.
Mr. Trump wants to demolish that career civil service -- or what he pejoratively calls "the deep state." He has privately told allies that if he gets back into power he plans to fire far more than the 4,000 government officials that presidents are typically allowed to replace. Mr. Trump's lawyers already have the legal instrument in hand.
In late 2020, Mr. Trump issued an executive order that would establish a new employment category for federal workers, called "Schedule F." Barely anyone noticed because the order was developed in strict secrecy over more than a year and issued only two weeks before the 2020 election.
The news was lost amid the postelection chaos as Mr. Trump desperately tried to overturn the result.
But key officials involved with the federal civil service immediately grasped the significance of Schedule F and its potential to create a new federal work force in which loyalty to Mr. Trump was the highest criteria, they said. Everett Kelley, who as national president of the American Federation of Government Employees represents more than half a million government workers, described Schedule F, at the time it was released, as "the most profound undermining of the civil service in our lifetimes."
Mr. Trump's staff estimated that Schedule F would give the president the power to terminate and replace as many as 50,000 career government officials who served in roles that influenced federal policy.
President Biden rescinded the Schedule F order on his third day in office, but over the past two years, several of Mr. Trump's confidants, including his former budget director Russell T. Vought, have been working on a plan to re-enact the order and gut the federal civil service in a second Trump administration.
Now, the two plans -- Mr. Trump's and Heritage's -- are dovetailing, even as Mr. Trump himself has shown no interest in the details. Conveniently, Dennis Kirk, a former Trump administration lawyer who was involved with the adoption of Schedule F, is now employed by Heritage. Mr. Kirk is busy at work on Project 2025, Dr. Roberts said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Workforce planning; Conservatism; Government employees; Political appointments; Careers; Presidential elections; Civil service; Politics; Public officials; Employment

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Careers Employment

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/20/us/politics/republican-president-2024-heritage-foundation.html

Title: Like LinkedIn, but for G.O.P. Staff Only:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 21, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2803755874

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/like-linkedin-g-o-p-staff-only/docview/2803755874/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Social Media As We Knew It Is Long Gone: [National Desk]

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/social-media-as-we-knew-is-long-gone/docview/2803171042/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Facebook, TikTok and Twitter seem to be increasingly connecting users with brands and influencers. To restore a sense of community, some users are trying smaller social networks.
Nearly two decades ago, Facebook exploded on college campuses as a site for students to stay in touch. Then came Twitter, where people posted about what they had for breakfast, and Instagram, where friends shared photos to keep up with one another.
Today, Instagram and Facebook feeds are full of ads and sponsored posts. TikTok and Snapchat are stuffed with videos from influencers promoting dish soaps and dating apps. And soon, Twitter posts that gain the most visibility will come mostly from subscribers who pay for the exposure and other perks.
Social media is, in many ways, becoming less social. The kinds of posts where people update friends and family about their lives have become harder to see over the years as the biggest sites have become increasingly "corporatized." Instead of seeing messages and photos from friends and relatives about their holidays or fancy dinners, users of Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, Twitter and Snapchat now often view professionalized content from brands, influencers and others that pay for placement.
The change has implications for large social networking companies and how people interact with one another digitally. But it also raises questions about a core idea: the online platform. For years, the notion of a platform -- an all-in-one, public-facing site where people spent most of their time -- reigned supreme. But as big social networks made connecting people with brands a priority over connecting them with other people, some users have started seeking community-oriented sites and apps devoted to specific hobbies and issues.
"Platforms as we knew them are over," said Zizi Papacharissi, a communications professor at the University of Illinois-Chicago, who teaches courses on social media. "They have outlived their utility."
The shift helps explain why some social networking companies, which continue to have billions of users and pull in billions of dollars in revenue, are now exploring new avenues of business. Twitter, which is owned by Elon Musk, has been pushing people and brands to pay $ 8 to $ 1,000 a month to become subscribers. Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, is moving into the immersive online world of the so-called metaverse.
For users, this means that instead of spending all their time on one or a few big social networks, some are gravitating toward smaller, more focused sites. These include Mastodon, which is essentially a Twitter clone sliced into communities; Nextdoor, a social network for neighbors to commiserate about quotidian issues like local potholes; and apps like Truth Social, which was started by former President Donald J. Trump and is viewed as a social network for conservatives.
"It's not about choosing one network to rule them all -- that is crazy Silicon Valley logic," said Ethan Zuckerman, a professor of public policy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. "The future is that you're a member of dozens of different communities, because as human beings, that's how we are."
Twitter, which automatically responds to press inquiries with a poop emoji, did not have a comment about the evolution of social networking. Meta declined to comment, and TikTok did not respond to a request for comment. Snap, the maker of Snapchat, said that although its app had evolved, connecting people with their friends and family remained its primary function.
A shift to smaller, more focused networks was predicted years ago by some of social media's biggest names, including Mark Zuckerberg, Meta's chief executive, and Jack Dorsey, a founder of Twitter.
In 2019, Mr. Zuckerberg wrote in a Facebook post that private messaging and small groups were the fastest-growing areas of online communication. Mr. Dorsey, who stepped down as Twitter's chief executive in 2021, has pushed for so-called decentralized social networks that give people control over the content they see and the communities they engage with. He has recently been posting on Nostr, a social media site based on this principle.
Over the last year, technologists and academics have also focused on smaller social networks. In a paper published last month and titled "The Three-Legged Stool: A Manifesto for a Smaller, Denser Internet," Mr. Zuckerman and other academics outlined how future companies could run small networks at low costs.
They also suggested the creation of an app that essentially acts as a Swiss Army knife of social networks by allowing people to switch among the sites they use, including Twitter, Mastodon, Reddit and smaller networks. One such app, called Gobo and developed by MIT Media Lab and the University of Massachusetts Amherst, is set for release next month.
The tricky part for users is finding the newer, small networks because they are obscure. But broader social networks, like Mastodon or Reddit, often act as a gateway to smaller communities. When signing up for Mastodon, for example, people can choose a server from an extensive list, including those related to gaming, food and activism.
Eugen Rochko, Mastodon's chief executive, said users were publishing over a billion posts a month across its communities and that there were no algorithms or ads altering people's feeds.
One major benefit of small networks is that they create forums for specific communities, including people who are marginalized. Ahwaa, which was founded in 2011, is a social network for members of the L.G.B.T.Q. community in countries around the Persian Gulf where being gay is deemed illegal. Other small networks, like Letterboxd, an app for film enthusiasts to share their opinions on movies, are focused on special interests.
Smaller communities can also relieve some social pressure of using social media, especially for younger people. Over the last decade, stories have emerged -- including in congressional hearings about the dangers of social media -- about teenagers developing eating disorders after trying to live up to "Instagram perfect" photos and through watching videos on TikTok.
The idea that a new social media site might come along to be the one app for everyone appears unrealistic, experts say. When young people are done experimenting with a new network -- such as BeReal, the photo-sharing app that was popular among teenagers last year but is now hemorrhaging millions of active users -- they move on to the next one.
"They're not going to be swayed by the first shiny platform that comes along," Ms. Papacharissi said.
People's online identities will become increasingly fragmented among multiple sites, she added. For talking about professional accomplishments, there's LinkedIn. For playing video games with fellow gamers, there's Discord. For discussing news stories, there's Artifact.
"What we're interested in is smaller groups of people who are communicating with each other about specific things," Ms. Papacharissi said.
More small networks are likely on the horizon. Last year, Harvard University, where Mr. Zuckerberg founded Facebook in 2004 as a student, began a research program devoted to rebooting social media. The program helps students and others create and experiment with new networks together.
One app that emerged from the program, Minus, lets users publish only 100 posts on their timeline for life. The idea is to make people feel connected in an environment where their time together is treated as a precious and finite resource, unlike traditional social networks such as Facebook and Twitter that use infinite scrolling interfaces to keep users engaged for as long as possible.
"It's a performance art experiment," said Jonathan Zittrain, a professor of law and computer science at Harvard who started the research initiative. "It's the kind of thing that as soon as you see it, it doesn't have to be this way."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A1, A20.

Subject: Social networks; American culture; Commercialization

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Commercialization

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Snap Inc; NAICS: 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/19/technology/personaltech/tiktok-twitter-facebook-social.html

Title: Social Media As We Knew It Is Long Gone:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 20, 2023

column: Tech Fix

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2803171042

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/social-media-as-we-knew-is-long-gone/docview/2803171042/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Future of Social Media Is a Lot Less Social

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/future-social-media-is-lot-less/docview/2803013520/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Nearly two decades ago, Facebook exploded on college campuses as a site for students to stay in touch. Then came Twitter, where people posted about what they had for breakfast, and Instagram, where friends shared photos to keep up with one another.
Today, Instagram and Facebook feeds are full of ads and sponsored posts. TikTok and Snapchat are stuffed with videos from influencers promoting dish soaps and dating apps. And soon, Twitter posts that gain the most visibility will come mostly from subscribers who pay for the exposure and other perks.
Social media is, in many ways, becoming less social. The kinds of posts where people update friends and family about their lives have become harder to see over the years as the biggest sites have become increasingly “corporatized.” Instead of seeing messages and photos from friends and relatives about their holidays or fancy dinners, users of Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, Twitter and Snapchat now often view professionalized content from brands, influencers and others that pay for placement.
The change has implications for large social networking companies and how people interact with one another digitally. But it also raises questions about a core idea: the online platform. For years, the notion of a platform — an all-in-one, public-facing site where people spent most of their time — reigned supreme. But as big social networks made connecting people with brands a priority over connecting them with other people, some users have started seeking community-oriented sites and apps devoted to specific hobbies and issues.
“Platforms as we knew them are over,” said Zizi Papacharissi, a communications professor at the University of Illinois-Chicago, who teaches courses on social media. “They have outlived their utility.”
The shift helps explain why some social networking companies, which continue to have billions of users and pull in billions of dollars in revenue, are now exploring new avenues of business. Twitter, which is owned by Elon Musk, has been pushing people and brands to pay $8 to $1,000 a month to become subscribers. Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, is moving into the immersive online world of the so-called metaverse.
For users, this means that instead of spending all their time on one or a few big social networks, some are gravitating toward smaller, more focused sites. These include Mastodon, which is essentially a Twitter clone sliced into communities; Nextdoor, a social network for neighbors to commiserate about quotidian issues like local potholes; and apps like Truth Social, which was started by former President Donald Trump and is viewed as a social network for conservatives.
“It’s not about choosing one network to rule them all — that is crazy Silicon Valley logic,” said Ethan Zuckerman, a professor of public policy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. “The future is that you’re a member of dozens of different communities, because as human beings, that’s how we are.”
Twitter, which automatically responds to press inquiries with a poop emoji, did not have a comment about the evolution of social networking. Meta declined to comment, and TikTok did not respond to a request for comment. Snap, the maker of Snapchat, said that although its app had evolved, connecting people with their friends and family remained its primary function.
A shift to smaller, more focused networks was predicted years ago by some of social media’s biggest names, including Mark Zuckerberg, Meta’s chief executive, and Jack Dorsey, a founder of Twitter.
In 2019, Zuckerberg wrote in a Facebook post that private messaging and small groups were the fastest-growing areas of online communication. Dorsey, who stepped down as Twitter’s chief executive in 2021, has pushed for so-called decentralized social networks that give people control over the content they see and the communities they engage with. He has recently been posting on Nostr, a social media site based on this principle.
Over the past year, technologists and academics have also focused on smaller social networks. In a paper published last month and titled “The Three-Legged Stool: A Manifesto for a Smaller, Denser Internet,” Zuckerman and other academics outlined how future companies could run small networks at low costs.
They also suggested the creation of an app that essentially acts as a Swiss Army knife of social networks by allowing people to switch among the sites they use, including Twitter, Mastodon, Reddit and smaller networks. One such app, called Gobo and developed by MIT Media Lab and the University of Massachusetts Amherst, is set for release next month.
The tricky part for users is finding the newer, small networks because they are obscure. But broader social networks, like Mastodon or Reddit, often act as a gateway to smaller communities. When signing up for Mastodon, for example, people can choose a server from an extensive list, including those related to gaming, food and activism.
Eugen Rochko, Mastodon’s chief executive, said users were publishing more than 1 billion posts a month across its communities and that there were no algorithms or ads altering people’s feeds.
One major benefit of small networks is that they create forums for specific communities, including people who are marginalized. Ahwaa, which was founded in 2011, is a social network for members of the LGBTQ community in countries around the Persian Gulf where being gay is deemed illegal. Other small networks, like Letterboxd, an app for film enthusiasts to share their opinions on movies, are focused on special interests.
Smaller communities can also relieve some social pressure of using social media, especially for younger people. Over the past decade, stories have emerged — including in congressional hearings about the dangers of social media — about teenagers developing eating disorders after trying to live up to “Instagram perfect” photos and through watching videos on TikTok.
The idea that a new social media site might come along to be the one app for everyone appears unrealistic, experts say. When young people are done experimenting with a new network — such as BeReal, the photo-sharing app that was popular among teenagers last year but is now hemorrhaging millions of active users — they move on to the next one.
“They’re not going to be swayed by the first shiny platform that comes along,” Papacharissi said.
People’s online identities will become increasingly fragmented among multiple sites, she added. For talking about professional accomplishments, there’s LinkedIn. For playing video games with fellow gamers, there’s Discord. For discussing news stories, there’s Artifact.
“What we’re interested in is smaller groups of people who are communicating with each other about specific things,” Papacharissi said.
More small networks are likely on the horizon. Last year, Harvard University, where Zuckerberg founded Facebook in 2004 as a student, began a research program devoted to rebooting social media. The program helps students and others create and experiment with new networks together.
One app that emerged from the program, Minus, lets users publish only 100 posts on their timeline for life. The idea is to make people feel connected in an environment where their time together is treated as a precious and finite resource, unlike traditional social networks such as Facebook and Twitter that use infinite scrolling interfaces to keep users engaged for as long as possible.
“It’s a performance art experiment,” said Jonathan Zittrain, a professor of law and computer science at Harvard who started the research initiative. “It’s the kind of thing that as soon as you see it, it doesn’t have to be this way.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Massachusetts

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Snap Inc; NAICS: 513210

Identifier / keyword: Zuckerberg, Mark E; Linkedin Corporation; Relocation Of Business; HumanCo; Photography; Illinois; Reddit Inc; United States Politics And Government; Letterboxd Ltd; News And News Media; Instant Messaging; University Of Massachusetts Amherst; Appointments And Executive Changes; Harvard University; Massachusetts; Restaurants; University Of Massachusetts; Amherst College; United States; Mobile Applications; Company Reports; Amherst (Mass); Persian Gulf; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Snap Inc; Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Twitter; Facebook Inc; Truth Social (Social Network); Tiktok (Bytedance); Polls And Public Opinion; Bereal (Mobile App); Computer And Video Games; This (Social Network); NextdoorCom Inc; Circuits; Discord Inc; Meta Platforms Inc; Trump, Donald J; Mastodon (Software); Dorsey, Jack; Colleges And Universities; Chen, Brian X

Title: The Future of Social Media Is a Lot Less Social

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 19, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-19T21:08:39Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2803013520

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/future-social-media-is-lot-less/docview/2803013520/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Builds War Crimes Case After American's Execution in Syria: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Benner, Katie; Goldman, Adam

Publication info: Benner, Katie; Goldman, Adam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-builds-war-crimes-case-after-americans/docview/2802215879/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For months, guards at a Syrian prison brutally tortured an American aid worker and threatened to kill her loved ones. She eventually caved to their demands, confessing to crimes she did not commit. A trial that lasted no more than a few minutes followed, and she was ordered executed in late 2016.
Human rights workers and politicians were outraged when the American government stayed noticeably silent about the death of the aid worker, Layla Shweikani, 26. Her case never received the same level of attention as those of other American citizens captured abroad, including Austin Tice, a freelance journalist covering the war in Syria who was abducted outside Damascus in 2012; Jason Rezaian, a correspondent for The Washington Post, who described being subjected to psychological abuse and sleep deprivation after he was released from an Iranian prison in 2016; and Brittney Griner, a professional basketball star who was imprisoned for nearly a year in Russia.
But for five years, the Justice Department has been quietly investigating Ms. Shweikani's killing, led by the U.S. attorney in Chicago, according to four people with knowledge of the inquiry. F.B.I. agents traveled to Europe and the Middle East to collect troves of evidence and interview potential witnesses, including the man who may have buried Ms. Shweikani. Federal prosecutors convened a grand jury, which has been hearing evidence.
The inquiry, which has not been previously reported, aims to bring to account top Syrian officials considered key architects of a ruthless system of detention and torture that has flourished under President Bashar al-Assad: Jamil Hassan, the head of the Air Force Intelligence Directorate when Ms. Shweikani disappeared, and Ali Mamlouk, then the head of Syria's National Security Bureau intelligence service.
A federal indictment accusing the men of committing war crimes would be the first time that the United States has criminally charged top Syrian officials with the very human rights abuses that Mr. al-Assad has long denied using to silence dissent. Although the men are unlikely to be apprehended, a conviction would signal that the United States aims to hold the Syrian government responsible. Already, the United States has imposed sanctions on Mr. al-Assad and his inner circle, including Mr. Mamlouk and Mr. Hassan, over abuses like violence against civilians.
International efforts to bring top officials in Syria to justice for war crimes committed over more than a decade of conflict have been starkly limited. Few perpetrators have been prosecuted, raising the stakes of any possible charges and testing diplomatic relations. A potential indictment would "personalize the evil of this regime and make it clear you can't do business with Assad," said former Ambassador James F. Jeffrey, the Trump administration's special representative for Syria engagement.
Even as it is widely acknowledged that security forces under Mr. al-Assad have systematically sought to stamp out opposition to his authoritarian rule, he has inched back onto the world stage. A few Arab countries, led by the United Arab Emirates, are trying to draw Syria back into the international fold. Critics have accused President Biden of tacitly shifting from the position held by previous administrations that no nation should ever engage with Syria, accusations the White House has denied. And after a powerful earthquake devastated Syria in February, Western nations have worked more amicably with Mr. al-Assad's government to deliver aid.
Mouaz Moustafa, the executive director of the Syrian Emergency Task Force, an advocacy group, said that an indictment would send an undeniable message. "No one should normalize relations with a regime that has killed an estimated 500,000 to a million people, including Americans and Europeans, and that continues to do so," he said.
Asked to comment for this article or whether the F.B.I. had reached out, Ms. Shweikani's father, Mohamed Shweikani, said, "I want nothing to do with running your story or the F.B.I."
Spokeswomen for the Justice Department and the F.B.I. declined to comment.
As a child, Ms. Shweikani traveled to Syria to see family, and she earned a computer science degree in 2012 from Arab International University, according to her LinkedIn account. After working for a few years as a software engineer, she relocated in 2015 from suburban Chicago to Damascus to join a grass-roots network of humanitarian relief workers. But Mr. al-Assad tightly controls all official aid efforts in his country and he has treated citizen-run efforts as a threat, accusing them of terrorism.
By the time the authorities detained Ms. Shweikani on Feb. 19, 2016, along with her father and her fiancé, who were also in the country, almost every member of her relief group had been taken into Syrian custody. She would spend nearly a year in prisons on the outskirts of Damascus where cramped conditions, illness and torture run rampant: a detention facility at the Mezze airport, the Adra civilian prison and the Saydnaya military prison, where witnesses believe she was tried and executed.
Syrian guards tortured Ms. Shweikani, witnesses would later tell Justice Department investigators, recounting how they vowed to kill her father and fiancé, who had been detained for only a few days. The guards eventually forced her to falsely confess to crimes against the state, including terrorism.
Some of the worst abuse she endured is believed to have been at the Mezze detention center, which was then controlled by Mr. Hassan. One former detainee described the stark conditions there after he was arrested in 2012 as part of the government's crackdown on Homs, once the heart of the resistance against Mr. al-Assad.
"You're blindfolded, handcuffed and naked," said Mohamed, who asked to be identified only by his first name for fear of retribution. "Your cell is so full that you sleep standing up. You don't know what time it is. But you know that you're always awaiting torture." He had scabies and lice, and his skin was deteriorating. Some prisoners died of gangrene from mutilations and amputations, others of starvation and suffocation.
Guards suspended him by his wrists, feet barely touching the floor, alternately beating him and leaving him hanging for hours to listen to the screams of men, women and children as guards set upon them.
"I confessed to anything they wanted me to," he said.
Eventually, Ms. Shweikani was moved to Adra prison, where the Obama administration dispatched the Czech ambassador, Eva Filipi, to meet her in December 2016 because it had cut off formal diplomatic relations with Syria. Convinced that Ms. Shweikani had confessed under torture, she relayed that to officials in Washington, two former officials said.
But before the U.S. government could intervene, Ms. Shweikani was transferred in late December to the Saydnaya military prison. After a brief field trial, she was convicted. Investigators believe she was hanged. She died at 7:07 a.m. on Dec. 28, 2016, according to a government document obtained by Zaman Al Wasl, a Syrian news service.
At a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on Syria in 2018, Representative Adam Kinzinger, Republican of Illinois, disclosed Ms. Shweikani's death to the public.
"She became the first American citizen that we know of to be killed by the Assad regime," Mr. Kinzinger said, adding, "Whatever response the administration decides to take will shape how the regime and its backers treat other Americans."
At the hearing, Ambassador Jeffrey confirmed that Ms. Shweikani died "in Syrian government hands."
Four months later, at a private White House meeting, President Donald J. Trump told Republican lawmakers that he was unlikely to respond to a killing by the Syrian government, according to two people familiar with the conversation. Even though human rights groups had details supporting allegations of torture and murder, Mr. Trump said he was not inclined to address the matter because of Mr. al-Assad's claims about aid workers and extremism.
But two F.B.I. agents privately told Mr. Kinzinger that the bureau would not be dissuaded from investigating her death, the people said. Former and current U.S. officials involved in scrutinizing Ms. Shweikani's activities also expressed doubt about Syria's accusations of terrorism.
While investigators gathered ample information that placed Ms. Shweikani in the prisons and testimony about her brutal treatment, the bigger challenge was directly linking Syria's top intelligence officials to her torture and death. But they made inroads, largely with the help of Syrian activists, victims and nongovernmental organizations that for years have collected evidence of Syria's activities.
At least one prisoner testified to seeing Mr. Hassan at Mezze prison while Ms. Shweikani was there. The gravedigger's papers authorizing him to dispose of the bodies from Syria's prisons were signed and stamped by Mr. Mamlouk. He said in an interview with The New York Times that Mr. Hassan ordered his work.
Nearly every night, intelligence officers called him on a military communications device to meet tractor-trailer trucks that ferried bodies to mass graves. "Sometimes it was impossible to open the truck because the pressure built up inside from the decay," he said.
The trailers tilted the corpses into vast trenches. "Hundreds of bodies flowed out. Some human beings looked skeletal because they were starved. Others had their guts spilling out. I would see a river of parts," the gravedigger said. "Those that got stuck on the ledge, me and my team would have to get them into the hole." The smell lingered in his nose and mouth for days.
But the bodies from Saydnaya were different, arriving in cars, a few dozen at a time. "Their bodies were still warm, just executed," the gravedigger said. "I always saw the mark of the noose on their neck and their hands and legs tied. They were always naked."
Prosecutors in Germany and France have spent years establishing criminal cases against Mr. al-Assad's lieutenants, underlining some of the difficulties in pursuing justice for atrocities committed in countries like Syria.
In January 2022, a German court handed down a landmark life sentence against Anwar Raslan, a Syrian colonel, for crimes against humanity, including the torture of more than 4,000 Syrian prisoners. In 2018, German prosecutors issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Hassan, but they have yet to apprehend him.
In March, prosecutors in France indicted and issued arrest warrants for Mr. Mamlouk and Mr. Hassan related to the killing of two men with dual French-Syrian citizenship.
If the Justice Department were to charge Mr. Hassan and Mr. Mamlouk, it is highly unlikely that the men would enter a country willing to extradite them to the United States. But human rights lawyers say the prosecution would still be valuable, revealing more about the atrocities that continue to be committed in Syria.
"Assad is still in power," said Clémence Bectarte, a lawyer for the International Federation for Human Rights who represented the family of the two victims in France's recent indictment. "Prosecutions are the only way at the moment for victims to articulate their quest for justice."
Photograph Layla Shweikani, an American aid worker, was detained by Syria on Feb. 19, 2016. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA SYRIAN NETWORK FOR HUMAN RIGHTS); PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABDULMONAM EASSA/GETTY IMAGES, OMAR HAJ KADOUR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES, DELIL SOULEIMAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES, VIA REUTERS.) (A7) This article appeared in print on page A1, A7.

Subject: Witnesses; Torture; Military prisons; Trials; Indictments; Criminal investigations; Murders & murder attempts; Human rights; Capital punishment; Prisoners

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; Syria

Company / organization: Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/17/us/politics/justice-department-syria-war-crimes.html

Title: U.S. Builds War Crimes Case After American's Execution in Syria:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 18, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2802215879

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-builds-war-crimes-case-after-americans/docview /2802215879/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After American’s Killing in Syria, FBI Builds War Crimes Case Against Top Officials

Author: Benner, Katie; Goldman, Adam

Publication info: Benner, Katie; Goldman, Adam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-american-s-killing-syria-fbi-builds-war/docview/2802150900/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For months, guards at a Syrian prison brutally tortured an American aid worker and threatened to kill her loved ones. She eventually caved to their demands, confessing to crimes she did not commit. A trial that lasted no more than a few minutes followed, and she was ordered executed in late 2016.
Human rights workers and politicians were outraged when the U.S. government stayed noticeably silent about the death of the aid worker, Layla Shweikani, 26. Her case never received the same level of attention as those of other American citizens captured abroad, including Austin Tice, a freelance journalist covering the war in Syria who was abducted outside Damascus in 2012; Jason Rezaian, a correspondent for The Washington Post, who described being subjected to psychological abuse and sleep deprivation after he was released from an Iranian prison in 2016; and Brittney Griner, a professional basketball star who was imprisoned for nearly a year in Russia.
But for five years, the Justice Department has been quietly investigating Shweikani’s killing, led by the U.S. attorney in Chicago, according to four people with knowledge of the inquiry. FBI agents traveled to Europe and the Middle East to collect troves of evidence and interview potential witnesses, including the man who may have buried Shweikani. Federal prosecutors convened a grand jury, which has been hearing evidence.
The inquiry, which has not been previously reported, aims to bring to account top Syrian officials considered key architects of a ruthless system of detention and torture that flourished under President Bashar Assad: Jamil Hassan, the head of the Air Force Intelligence Directorate when Shweikani disappeared, and Ali Mamlouk, then the head of Syria’s National Security Bureau intelligence service.
A federal indictment accusing the men of committing war crimes would be the first time that the United States has criminally charged top Syrian officials with the very human rights abuses that Assad has long denied using to silence dissent. Although the men are unlikely to be apprehended, a conviction would signal that the United States aims to hold the Syrian government responsible. Already, the United States has imposed sanctions on Assad and his inner circle, including Mamlouk and Hassan, over abuses such as violence against civilians.
International efforts to bring top officials in Syria to justice for war crimes committed over more than a decade of conflict have been starkly limited. Few perpetrators have been prosecuted, raising the stakes of any possible charges and testing diplomatic relations. A potential indictment would “personalize the evil of this regime and make it clear you can’t do business with Assad,” said former Ambassador James F. Jeffrey, the Trump administration’s special representative for Syria engagement.
Even as it is widely acknowledged that security forces under Assad have systematically sought to stamp out opposition to his authoritarian rule, he has inched back onto the world stage. A few Arab countries, led by the United Arab Emirates, are trying to draw Syria back into the international fold. Critics have accused President Joe Biden of tacitly shifting from the position held by previous administrations that no nation should ever engage with Syria, accusations the White House has denied. And after a powerful earthquake devastated Syria in February, Western nations have worked more amicably with Assad’s government to deliver aid.
Mouaz Moustafa, the executive director of the Syrian Emergency Task Force, an advocacy group, said that an indictment would send an undeniable message. “No one should normalize relations with a regime that has killed an estimated 500,000 to a million people, including Americans and Europeans, and that continues to do so,” he said.
Asked to comment for this article or whether the FBI had reached out, Shweikani’s father, Mohamed Shweikani, said, “I want nothing to do with running your story or the FBI.”
Spokespeople for the Justice Department and the FBI declined to comment.
As a child, Shweikani traveled to Syria to see family, and she earned a computer science degree in 2012 from Arab International University, according to her LinkedIn account. After working for a few years as a software engineer, she relocated in 2015 from suburban Chicago to Damascus, Syria, to join a grassroots network of humanitarian relief workers. But Assad tightly controls all official aid efforts in his country and he has treated citizen-run efforts as a threat, accusing them of terrorism.
By the time the authorities detained Shweikani on Feb. 19, 2016, along with her father and her fiancé, who were also in the country, almost every member of her relief group had been taken into Syrian custody. She would spend nearly a year in prisons on the outskirts of Damascus where cramped conditions, illness and torture run rampant: a detention facility at the Mezze airport, the Adra civilian prison and the Saydnaya military prison, where witnesses believe she was tried and executed.
Syrian guards tortured Shweikani, witnesses would later tell Justice Department investigators, recounting how they vowed to kill her father and fiancé, who had been detained for only a few days. The guards eventually forced her to falsely confess to crimes against the state, including terrorism.
Some of the worst abuse she endured is believed to have been at the Mezze detention center, which was then controlled by Hassan. One former detainee described the stark conditions there after he was arrested in 2012 as part of the government’s crackdown on Homs, once the heart of the resistance against Assad.
“You’re blindfolded, handcuffed and naked,” said Mohamed, who asked to be identified only by his first name for fear of retribution. “Your cell is so full that you sleep standing up. You don’t know what time it is. But you know that you’re always awaiting torture.” He had scabies and lice, and his skin was deteriorating. Some prisoners died of gangrene from mutilations and amputations, others of starvation and suffocation.
Guards suspended him by his wrists, feet barely touching the floor, alternately beating him and leaving him hanging for hours to listen to the screams of men, women and children as guards set upon them.
“I confessed to anything they wanted me to,” he said.
Eventually, Shweikani was moved to Adra prison, where the Obama administration dispatched the Czech ambassador, Eva Filipi, to meet her in December 2016 because it had cut off formal diplomatic relations with Syria. Convinced that Shweikani had confessed under torture, she relayed that to officials in Washington, two former officials said.
But before the U.S. government could intervene, Shweikani was transferred in late December to the Saydnaya military prison. After a brief field trial, she was convicted. Investigators believe she was hanged. She died at 7:07 a.m. on Dec. 28, 2016, according to a government document obtained by a Syrian news service.
At a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on Syria in 2018, Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., disclosed Shweikani’s death to the public.
“She became the first American citizen that we know of to be killed by the Assad regime,” Kinzinger said, adding, “Whatever response the administration decides to take will shape how the regime and its backers treat other Americans.”
At the hearing, Jeffrey confirmed that Shweikani died “in Syrian government hands.”
Four months later, at a private White House meeting, President Donald Trump told Republican lawmakers that he was unlikely to respond to a killing by the Syrian government, according to two people familiar with the conversation. Even though human rights groups had details supporting allegations of torture and murder, Trump said he was not inclined to address the matter because of Assad’s claims about aid workers and extremism.
But two FBI agents privately told Kinzinger that the bureau would not be dissuaded from investigating her death, the people said. Former and current U.S. officials involved in scrutinizing Shweikani’s activities also expressed doubt about Syria’s accusations of terrorism.
While investigators gathered ample information that placed Shweikani in the prisons and testimony about her brutal treatment, the bigger challenge was directly linking Syria’s top intelligence officials to her torture and death. But they made inroads, largely with the help of Syrian activists, victims and nongovernmental organizations that for years have collected evidence of Syria’s activities.
At least one prisoner testified to seeing Hassan at Mezze prison while Shweikani was there. The gravedigger’s papers authorizing him to dispose of the bodies from Syria’s prisons were signed and stamped by Mamlouk. He said in an interview with The New York Times that Hassan ordered his work.
Nearly every night, intelligence officers called him on a military communications device to meet tractor-trailer trucks that ferried bodies to mass graves. “Sometimes it was impossible to open the truck because the pressure built up inside from the decay,” he said.
The trailers tilted the corpses into vast trenches. “Hundreds of bodies flowed out. Some human beings looked skeletal because they were starved. Others had their guts spilling out. I would see a river of parts,” the gravedigger said. “Those that got stuck on the ledge, me and my team would have to get them into the hole.” The smell lingered in his nose and mouth for days.
But the bodies from Saydnaya were different, arriving in cars, a few dozen at a time. “Their bodies were still warm, just executed,” the gravedigger said. “I always saw the mark of the noose on their neck and their hands and legs tied. They were always naked.”
Prosecutors in Germany and France have spent years establishing criminal cases against Assad’s lieutenants, underlining some of the difficulties in pursuing justice for atrocities committed in countries like Syria.
In January 2022, a German court handed down a landmark life sentence against Anwar Raslan, a Syrian colonel, for crimes against humanity, including the torture of more than 4,000 Syrian prisoners. In 2018, German prosecutors issued an arrest warrant for Hassan, but they have yet to apprehend him.
In March, prosecutors in France indicted and issued arrest warrants for Mamlouk and Hassan related to the killing of two men with dual French-Syrian citizenship.
If the Justice Department were to charge Hassan and Mamlouk, it is highly unlikely that the men would enter a country willing to extradite them to the United States. But human rights lawyers say the prosecution would still be valuable, revealing more about the atrocities that continue to be committed in Syria.
“Assad is still in power,” said Clémence Bectarte, a lawyer for the International Federation for Human Rights who represented the family of the two victims in France’s recent indictment. “Prosecutions are the only way at the moment for victims to articulate their quest for justice.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Evidence; Witnesses; Workers; Torture; Military prisons; Trials; Diplomatic & consular services; Indictments; Criminal investigations; Murders & murder attempts; Human rights

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US; Syria

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Prisons And Prisoners; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; United States Politics And Government; Homs (Syria); Tice, Austin; United States International Relations; New York Times; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Peace Process; Obama, Barack; House Of Representatives; Animal Behavior; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; War And Armed Conflicts; Assaults; United States; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; Washington Post; Linkedin Corporation; Syria; Signal (Open Whisper Systems); Justice Department; Damascus (Va); Politics And Government; Humanitarian Aid; Smells And Odors; Mamlouk; Illinois; Extradition; Espionage And Intelligence Services; Records And Achievements; Turkey Earthquake (Feb 6, 2023); Iran; Europe; Rescues; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Embargoes And Sanctions; Germany; Threats And Threatening Messages; Decisions And Verdicts; Middle East; World; Raslan, Anwar (1963 ); Law And Legislation; International Relations; News And News Media; Foreign Aid; United Arab Emirates; Griner, Brittney; Torture; Confessions; Political Prisoners; Civilian Casualties; Newspapers; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Republican Party; Russia; Trump, Donald J; France; Russian Interference In 2016 Us Elections And Ties To Trump Associates; Jeffrey, James F; Damascus (Syria); House Committee On Foreign Affairs; Chicago (Ill); Kidnapping And Hostages; Terrorism

Title: After American’s Killing in Syria, FBI Builds War Crimes Case Against Top Officials

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-17T23:58:01Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2802150900

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-american-s-killing-syria-fbi-builds-war/docview/2802150900/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A National Guard Airman With Limited Responsibilities and a Lot of Access: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Philipps, Dave; Russell, Jenna; Fortin, Jacey; Haley, Willis

Publication info: Philipps, Dave; Russell, Jenna; Fortin, Jacey; Haley, Willis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/national-guard-airman-with-limited/docview/2801437275/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jack Teixeira grew up in a family with strong military ties, was quiet and somewhat awkward in high school and seemed, to some, unnervingly obsessed with war and guns.
For his high school senior yearbook, Jack Teixeira got to pick a quote to appear below the photo showing him smiling in a green hoodie. His choice: "Actions speak louder than words."
On Friday, Mr. Teixeira, the 21-year-old airman in the Massachusetts Air National Guard, was charged with two counts under the Espionage Act because, federal prosecutors say, his actions caused harm to the country he had devoted himself to serving. He did not enter a plea.
They said he repeatedly shared classified documents on the internet through a gaming group he belonged to that focused on war, guns, and sometimes, racist and antisemitic memes. It was a remarkable turnabout for a young man who grew up with a passion for the military and weapons -- at times to an unnerving extent, some who knew him said.
Airman Teixeira grew up in a family with strong military ties in Dighton, Mass., a town of about 8,000 people near the Massachusetts-Rhode Island border that retains a distinctly rural character, with tractors in backyards, fresh eggs for sale in roadside honor boxes and old stone walls rambling through woods. It is also reliably conservative.
The Teixeira home sits at the end of a long, densely treed lot, where Airman Teixeira's mother runs a home floral business. His stepfather retired as a master sergeant from the same Air Force intelligence unit where Airman Teixeira worked, headquartered on a base on nearby Cape Cod. He also has a stepbrother in the Air Force, according to a profile for the brother on LinkedIn.
Close to two dozen people who knew Airman Teixeira when he was in high school did not respond to interview requests or declined to comment. But several former classmates at Dighton-Rehoboth Regional High School remembered him as a quiet and somewhat awkward teenager who sometimes wore camouflage and boots to school.
Kailani Reis, 20, a high school classmate in Airman Teixeira's graduating class, said that as a student, the airman expressed his interest in weapons often enough that she and some other students found it "unsettling" and avoided him. She said few of the former classmates she knew were surprised when he was arrested.
She did not recall that he talked politics but said he spoke often about joining the military and on occasion told teachers who encouraged him that he did not plan on going to college.
He even skipped his high school graduation in 2020 to report to basic training in the Air Force at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas.
"Congratulations to my son Jack Teixeira who was not able to attend the ceremony," his mother posted on Facebook at the time. "It's too bad they didn't mention his name at some point."
In the Air Force, Airman Teixeira became a low-level computer tech at Otis Air National Guard Base in Sandwich, Mass., where his mother said he worked nights, helping maintain secure networks. There, he had broad access to a secure facility where he could access a global network of classified material from the military and 17 other American intelligence agencies.
Authorities say that Mr. Teixeira eventually leaked dozens of documents containing potentially harmful details about the war in Ukraine and other sensitive national security topics.
That a 21-year-old with so little authority could have access to a such a vast trove of top secret information might surprise the general public, but people who have worked in the intelligence world say untold thousands of troops and government civilians have access to top secret materials, including many young, inexperienced workers the military relies on to process the monumental amount of intelligence it collects.
Those workers can log onto the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System -- essentially a highly classified version of Google -- and in milliseconds pull up briefings on Ukraine, China or nearly any other sensitive subject that the U.S. government collects intelligence on.
Though his motivations may be different, Mr. Teixeira is remarkably similar to two other high-profile leakers in recent years, Chelsea Manning and Reality Winner, said Javed Ali, a former senior U.S. counterterrorism official who held intelligence roles at the F.B.I., the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Department of Homeland Security.
Ms. Manning was a 23-year-old Army intelligence analyst who was convicted in 2013 of giving more than 700,000 classified documents to WikiLeaks. Ms. Winner was a 26-year-old former Air Force linguist working as a military contractor who in 2017 printed out a classified report on Russian hacking, hid it in her pantyhose, and gave it to The Intercept.
Unlike Ms. Manning and Ms. Winner, who came to be seen as whistle-blowers motivated by ideology, Airman Teixeira did not appear to be driven by government policies, according to people who knew him online.
But all three were relatively young and had security clearances that were the classified intelligence equivalent of having the keys to dad's red convertible.
"Clearly their relatively young age is a common factor, and I would hope the intelligence community is thinking about that," said Bennett Miller, a retired Air Force intelligence analyst. "The problem is that the community needs these people. It can't work without them."
The words "top secret" may conjure images of pristine vaults and retinal scanners, Mr. Miller said, but in reality, while some highly classified material is siloed in special access programs, most of the rest is accessible to thousands of ordinary people who have security clearances. And security can be surprisingly lax.
Often, these systems are basically just a bunch of computers on a desk and there is "nothing really stopping anyone from printing something and carrying it out," Mr. Miller said, adding, "It ain't as Gucci as people think."
According to some of the gamers who belonged to a small group created by Airman Teixeira on the social media site Discord, he liked to play the apocalyptic zombie game Project Zomboid, as well as Arma 3, a tactical shooter game known for its lifelike attention to detail. He also liked to lecture the Discord group about the war in Ukraine and conflicts around the globe, sometimes typing for a half-hour at a time to share what he was learning from classified intelligence at work.
One group member told The New York Times that the briefings were largely ignored by the group, so Airman Teixeira, in frustration, started posting photos of actual classified materials. Those materials were later shared on other online platforms, eventually attracting the attention of federal authorities, who arrested him at gunpoint at his home on Thursday.
Restricting access to classified material might lead to fewer leaks, Mr. Miller said, but it also might cut off the flow of information, leading to intelligence failures that are far more dangerous than what any of the leakers have done.
"That's what happened before 9/11," he said. "We were too locked down and couldn't put together the pieces of the puzzle. As we look for a fix, we have to make sure we don't make the same mistake."
At a Pentagon briefing on Thursday, Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder, a spokesman, addressed concerns about Airman Teixeira's age, noting that the military routinely gives young people tremendous responsibility.
"Think about a young combat, you know, platoon sergeant, and the responsibility and trust that we put into those individuals to lead troops into combat," he said. "You receive training and you will receive an understanding of the rules and requirements that come along with those responsibilities, and you're expected to abide by those rules, regulations and responsibility. It's called military discipline. And in certain cases, especially when it comes to sensitive information, it also is about the law."
Sheelagh McNeill and Susan C. Beachy contributed research. Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.
Sheelagh McNeill and Susan C. Beachy contributed research. Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.
Photograph Jack Teixeira attended Dighton-Rehoboth Regional High School in Dighton, Mass., a town of about 8,000 people near the Massachusetts-Rhode Island border. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOPHIE PARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A8.

ERIC Subject: Weapons; High School Seniors; Mothers; Government (Administrative Body); War; Armed Forces

Subject: Military reserves; Military aircraft; Social networks; Security clearances; Intelligence gathering; Secondary schools; Classified information; Intelligence services

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Massachusetts; Ukraine; Rhode Island

People: Teixeira, Jack Douglas

Company / organization: Name: Air National Guard; NAICS: 928110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/15/us/jack-teixeira-pentagon-leak.html

Title: A National Guard Airman With Limited Responsibilities and a Lot of Access:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437275

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/national-guard-airman-with-limited/docview/2801437275/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In High School, Airman Charged With Leak Was Focused on the Military

Author: Philipps, Dave; Russell, Jenna; Fortin, Jacey; Haley, Willis

Publication info: Philipps, Dave; Russell, Jenna; Fortin, Jacey; Haley, Willis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/high-school-airman-charged-with-leak-was-focused/docview/2801288112/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For his high school senior yearbook, Jack Teixeira got to pick a quote to appear below the photo showing him smiling in a green hoodie. His choice: “Actions speak louder than words.”
On Friday, Teixeira, a 21-year-old airman in the Massachusetts Air National Guard, was charged with two counts under the Espionage Act because, federal prosecutors say, his actions caused harm to the country he had devoted himself to serving. He did not enter a plea.
They said he repeatedly shared classified documents on the internet through a gaming group he belonged to that focused on war, guns, and sometimes, racist and antisemitic memes. It was a remarkable turnabout for a young man who grew up with a passion for the military and weapons — at times to an unnerving extent, some who knew him said.
Teixeira grew up in a family with strong military ties in Dighton, Massachusetts, a town of about 8,000 people near the Massachusetts-Rhode Island border that retains a distinctly rural character, with tractors in backyards, fresh eggs for sale in roadside honor boxes and old stone walls rambling through woods. It is also reliably conservative.
The Teixeira home sits at the end of a long, densely treed lot, where Teixeira’s mother runs a home floral business. His stepfather retired as a master sergeant from the same Air Force intelligence unit where Teixeira worked, headquartered on a base on nearby Cape Cod. He also has a stepbrother in the Air Force, according to a profile for the brother on LinkedIn.
Close to two dozen people who knew Teixeira when he was in high school did not respond to interview requests or declined to comment. But several former classmates at Dighton-Rehoboth Regional High School remembered him as a quiet and somewhat awkward teenager who sometimes wore camouflage and boots to school.
Kailani Reis, 20, a high school classmate in Teixeira’s graduating class, said that as a student, the airman expressed his interest in weapons often enough that she and some other students found it “unsettling” and avoided him. She said few of the former classmates she knew were surprised when he was arrested.
She did not recall that he talked politics but said he spoke often about joining the military and on occasion told teachers who encouraged him that he did not plan on going to college.
He even skipped his high school graduation in 2020 to report to basic training in the Air Force at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas.
“Congratulations to my son Jack Teixeira who was not able to attend the ceremony,” his mother posted on Facebook at the time. “It’s too bad they didn’t mention his name at some point.”
In the Air Force, Teixeira became a low-level computer tech at Otis Air National Guard Base in Sandwich, Massachusetts, where his mother said he worked nights, helping maintain secure networks. There, he had broad access to a secure facility where he could access a global network of classified material from the military and 17 other U.S. intelligence agencies.
Authorities say that Teixeira eventually leaked dozens of documents containing potentially harmful details about the war in Ukraine and other sensitive national security topics.
That a 21-year-old with so little authority could have access to a such a vast trove of top secret information might surprise the general public, but people who have worked in the intelligence world say untold thousands of troops and government civilians have access to top secret materials, including many young, inexperienced workers the military relies on to process the monumental amount of intelligence it collects.
Those workers can log onto the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System — essentially a highly classified version of Google — and in milliseconds pull up briefings on Ukraine, China or nearly any other sensitive subject that the U.S. government collects intelligence on.
Though his motivations may be different, Teixeira is remarkably similar to two other high-profile leakers in recent years, Chelsea Manning and Reality Winner, said Javed Ali, a former senior U.S. counterterrorism official who held intelligence roles at the FBI, the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Department of Homeland Security.
Manning was a 23-year-old Army intelligence analyst who was convicted in 2013 of giving more than 700,000 classified documents to WikiLeaks. Winner was a 26-year-old former Air Force linguist working as a military contractor who in 2017 printed out a classified report on Russian hacking, hid it in her pantyhose and gave it to The Intercept.
Unlike Manning and Winner, who came to be seen as whistleblowers motivated by ideology, Teixeira did not appear to be driven by government policies, according to people who knew him online.
But all three were relatively young and had security clearances that were the classified intelligence equivalent of having the keys to dad’s red convertible.
“Clearly their relatively young age is a common factor, and I would hope the intelligence community is thinking about that,” said Bennett Miller, a retired Air Force intelligence analyst. “The problem is that the community needs these people. It can’t work without them.”
The words “top secret” may conjure images of pristine vaults and retinal scanners, Miller said, but in reality, while some highly classified material is siloed in special access programs, most of the rest is accessible to thousands of ordinary people who have security clearances.
And security can be surprisingly lax.
Often, these systems are basically just a bunch of computers on a desk and there is “nothing really stopping anyone from printing something and carrying it out,” Miller said, adding, “It ain’t as Gucci as people think.”
According to some of the gamers who belonged to a small group created by Teixeira on the social media site Discord, he liked to play the apocalyptic zombie game Project Zomboid, as well as Arma 3, a tactical shooter game known for its lifelike attention to detail. He also liked to lecture the Discord group about the war in Ukraine and conflicts around the globe, sometimes typing for a half-hour at a time to share what he was learning from classified intelligence at work.
One group member told The New York Times that the briefings were largely ignored by the group, so Teixeira, in frustration, started posting photos of actual classified materials. Those materials were later shared on other online platforms, eventually attracting the attention of federal authorities, who arrested him at gunpoint at his home Thursday.
Restricting access to classified material might lead to fewer leaks, Miller said, but it also might cut off the flow of information, leading to intelligence failures that are far more dangerous than what any of the leakers have done.
“That’s what happened before 9/11,” he said. “We were too locked down and couldn’t put together the pieces of the puzzle. As we look for a fix, we have to make sure we don’t make the same mistake.”
At a Pentagon briefing Thursday, Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder, a spokesperson, addressed concerns about Teixeira’s age, noting that the military routinely gives young people tremendous responsibility.
“Think about a young combat, you know, platoon sergeant, and the responsibility and trust that we put into those individuals to lead troops into combat,” he said. “You receive training and you will receive an understanding of the rules and requirements that come along with those responsibilities, and you’re expected to abide by those rules, regulations and responsibility. It’s called military discipline. And in certain cases, especially when it comes to sensitive information, it also is about the law.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Weapons; High School Seniors; Mothers; Government (Administrative Body); War; Armed Forces

Subject: Students; Military reserves; Military aircraft; Arrests; Social networks; Security clearances; Intelligence gathering; Secondary schools; Classified information; Leaking of information; Intelligence services

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Massachusetts

People: Teixeira, Jack Douglas

Company / organization: Name: Air National Guard-Massachusetts; NAICS: 928110

Identifier / keyword: United States; Cape Cod (Mass); Politics And Government; Espionage And Intelligence Services; Computers And The Internet; Civilian Casualties; Cyberwarfare And Defense; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Defense Intelligence Agency; September 11 (2001); Rhode Island; Colleges And Universities; New York Times; Computer Security; Sandwich (Mass); Massachusetts; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Us Intelligence Documents Leak (2023); Linkedin Corporation; Ukraine; Education (Secondary); Classified Information And State Secrets; Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Google Inc; Social Media; Winner, Reality Leigh; Lackland Air Force Base (San Antonio, Tex); Defense And Military Forces; Defense Department; Texas; Discrimination; Pentagon Building; Russian Language; Shutdowns (Institutional); News And News Media; Homeland Security Department; Facebook Inc; Miller, Bennett; Mann ing, Chelsea; Teixeira, Jack; Air National Guard; Education (K 12); Wikileaks; United States Defense And Military Forces; Russia; National Guard; Discord Inc; Age, Chronological

Title: In High School, Airman Charged With Leak Was Focused on the Military

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 15, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-15T16:30:44Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801288112

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/high-school-airman-charged-with-leak-was-focused/docview/2801288112/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

LinkedIn Co-Founder Funds Suit Alleging Trump Rape: [National Desk]

Author: Weiser, Benjamin; Savage, Charlie

Publication info: Weiser, Benjamin; Savage, Charlie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/linkedin-co-founder-funds-suit-alleging-trump/docview/2800446851/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Reid Hoffman, a billionaire and critic of Donald J. Trump, is backing E. Jean Carroll's suit against the former president.
Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn and a harsh critic of former President Donald J. Trump, has helped pay for a lawsuit by E. Jean Carroll, the New York magazine writer who sued Mr. Trump for rape and defamation, according to newly filed court papers in the case.
Mr. Hoffman's support for Ms. Carroll's lawsuit, which was first disclosed in a letter to a judge on Thursday by Mr. Trump's lawyers, has sparked a sharp dispute in the case, which is scheduled for trial in federal court in Manhattan on April 25.
Mr. Trump's lawyers, writing to the judge, accused Ms. Carroll of concealing Mr. Hoffman's role, which they said they only learned of this week from her lawyers. They said the disclosure raised "significant questions" about Ms. Carroll's credibility and whether her allegations against Mr. Trump were, as he has claimed, a "hoax" brought "to advance a political agenda."
They asked for a one-month postponement so they could investigate the funding issue. The judge, Lewis A. Kaplan, on Thursday evening said he would allow Mr. Trump's lawyers the opportunity to conduct a narrow inquiry into the funding issue, but he declined to delay the case.
Ms. Carroll's lawyers in their own letter argued that the financial support was irrelevant to Ms. Carroll's legal claims and that she had nothing to do with obtaining the outside funding and no dealings with anyone associated with the nonprofit.
They noted that it was not until September 2020, almost a year after Ms. Carroll filed the first of what became two lawsuits against Mr. Trump, that their firm obtained the funding to help pay "certain costs and fees."
They said Mr. Trump's effort to delay the trial -- earlier this week he asked that it be delayed because of a "deluge of prejudicial media coverage" concerning his recent criminal indictment in New York -- was "his latest transparent effort to keep a jury from deciding Carroll's claims."
Mr. Hoffman is a billionaire tech entrepreneur known for cofounding LinkedIn, which went public in 2011 and sold to Microsoft for $ 26 billion in 2016. He has a long history of funding Democratic candidates and causes, including those specifically designed to counteract Mr. Trump's influence.
Dmitri Mehlhorn, a philanthropic adviser for Mr. Hoffman, said in a statement that since 2017 they have acted as "third-party funders who support people in obtaining their legal rights."
"Trump and his defenders keep trying to change the subject, because they don't want a neutral court of law to evaluate his behavior," Mr. Mehlhorn said.
He added that they had made an earlier grant through a nonprofit to support a different public interest lawsuit being handled by the firm Kaplan Hecker & Fink, which later took up Ms. Carroll's case. He said that later, in September 2020, Ms. Carroll's lawyer, Roberta A. Kaplan, asked if money from that grant could be used for Ms. Carroll's suit.
"We had no prior knowledge at the time of the original grant that our funding would go to support her case in particular," Mr. Mehlhorn said.
Mr. Mehlhorn declined to specify the size of the original grant.
Mr. Hoffman is part of the so-called PayPal Mafia, a network of well-connected tech executives and investors who got their start at the payments company in the late 1990s. That crew includes the tech mogul Peter Thiel, who is a prominent Republican donor and has secretly funded lawsuits. In 2016 Mr. Thiel paid $ 10 million for the wrestler Hulk Hogan to sue the media outlet Gawker Media for an invasion of privacy, ultimately leading to Gawker's bankruptcy.
In New York and elsewhere, there is a well-established financial industry in which outsiders invest in lawsuits, whether involving car accidents, contract claims or mere slip-and-fall cases, said Anthony Sebok, a professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and expert on litigation finance and legal ethics.
Professor Sebok added that there was nothing wrong, legally or ethically, with an outsider who has no connection to a plaintiff providing funding to a lawsuit after it is filed, "either to make money or just because they have a rooting interest in the outcome."
The clash over Mr. Hoffman's role is just the latest twist in litigation stemming from the allegation by Ms. Carroll, a former Elle magazine columnist. In a 2019 book and excerpt in New York magazine, she accused Mr. Trump of pushing her against a dressing room wall in the luxury department store Bergdorf Goodman in Manhattan in the mid-1990s, saying he then pulled down her tights, opened his pants and forced himself upon her.
Mr. Trump denied her accusation, saying he had never met Ms. Carroll, that she was "totally lying" and that he could not have raped her because she was not his "type."
Ms. Carroll, saying Mr. Trump's comments had damaged her reputation, sued him in 2019 for defamation. She sued him again last year -- this time accusing him of rape -- under a new state law in New York that grants adults a one-time window to sue those who they say abused them even if the statute of limitations has long expired.
It is that lawsuit that is scheduled for trial this month.
The original defamation case has been tangled in appeals. On Thursday, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals -- a local court akin to a state's supreme court -- issued a 41-page ruling that declined to decide whether Mr. Trump was acting in his capacity as president when he made the disparaging comments.
The ruling was a partial victory for Ms. Carroll because the defamation lawsuit will continue, and because the D.C. court laid out for New York judges a detailed explanation about when an employer can be held liable for the actions of an employee -- an explanation that appears favorable to Ms. Carroll.
After Ms. Carroll sued Mr. Trump for defamation, the Justice Department intervened under a law that substitutes the government as the defendant when federal officials are sued for official acts -- meaning a case must be dismissed. That raised the question of whether Mr. Trump was acting as president when he talked about Ms. Carroll.
In October 2020, Judge Kaplan rejected the Justice Department's attempt to substitute the government as the defendant, ruling that Mr. Trump's comments had "no relationship to the official business of the United States." But a higher court asked the D.C. Court of Appeals to decide whether Mr. Trump was acting as a private person or as an employee of the federal government.
Had the D.C. court ruled in favor of Mr. Trump, that would have effectively brought an end to the defamation case. But it balked, saying there were not yet enough facts in the record to make that determination.
Erin Griffith contributed reporting.
Erin Griffith contributed reporting.
Photograph Reid Hoffman in 2019. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY HARRIS/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Indictments; Presidents; Law; Attorneys; Grants; Defamation; Funding; Trials

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Carroll, E Jean; Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/13/nyregion/trump-carroll-lawsuit-hoffman-linkedin.html

Title: LinkedIn Co-Founder Funds Suit Alleging Trump Rape:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 14, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2800446851

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/linkedin-co-founder-funds-suit-alleging-trump/docview/2800446851/s e-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tech Consultant Arrested in the Killing Of Cash App Creator in San Francisco: [National Desk]

Author: Lafraniere, Sharon; Hubler, Shawn; Fuller, Thomas

Publication info: Lafraniere, Sharon; Hubler, Shawn; Fuller, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-consultant-arrested-killing-cash-app-creator/docview/2800446837/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The police said the consultant, Nima Momeni, knew Bob Lee, who was fatally stabbed.
SAN FRANCISCO -- Nine days after the fatal late-night stabbing of Bob Lee set off a furious outcry over public safety in San Francisco, law enforcement officials said on Thursday that they had arrested an acquaintance of the prominent tech executive and would charge him with murder.
The police identified the man accused in the killing as Nima Momeni, 38, a tech entrepreneur and consultant whom family members said Mr. Lee had known personally.
The owner of an enterprise tech business in the East Bay city of Emeryville, Mr. Momeni was taken into custody there after an intense investigation that played out against heated claims that the killing reflected a city where the professional class was vulnerable to random attacks. Mr. Momeni was booked on Thursday morning into the San Francisco County Jail and is scheduled to be arraigned on a murder charge on Friday.
At a news conference, law enforcement officials acknowledged growing concerns about random violence and property crimes in the city but insisted that Mr. Lee's killing did not fit that pattern.
"This has nothing to do with San Francisco -- it has to do with human nature," Bill Scott, the city's police chief, said.
Scott Wiener, a Democratic state senator who represents the city, said the rush to judgment by tech luminaries such as Elon Musk and colleagues of Mr. Lee, a well-known figure in the Silicon Valley, was both inaccurate and damaging to San Francisco, which has been straining to rebound from the coronavirus pandemic.
"This is the danger of making one crime into a symbol," Mr. Wiener said. "This was a horrific, brutal murder, and I am so grateful that the police solved it so quickly. And San Francisco does have real public safety problems. But this particular crime does not appear to have anything to do with them."
Mr. Lee's brother, Oliver Lee, of Palo Alto, Calif., said in an interview on Thursday that the moves to "co-opt" the tragedy had been agonizing for his family. "Bob loved being in San Francisco, and San Francisco loved Bob," he said, adding that young people would stop his brother on the street there and ask for advice.
He said that his brother, a father of two who had recently relocated to Miami after spending most of his career in the Bay Area and Silicon Valley, had left the city for work reasons and had returned there often, both for business and to spend time with his teenage daughters, who continued to live in the Bay Area with his former wife.
Brooke Jenkins, the San Francisco district attorney, said that "the loss of a young, vibrant leader and innovator has rocked our city and even beyond." But she criticized what she said were "reckless and irresponsible statements" portraying the city as a hotbed of violent crime, pointing to comments by Mr. Musk, the chief executive of Twitter and Tesla, in particular.
Rates of violent crime have dipped or held steady over the past several years in the city of about 808,000 people. National crime data showed that the city's murder rate in 2020 was low compared to that of other major American cities.
Nonetheless, the killing has continued to generate waves of recriminations and heightened tensions between the city and the tech sector that is so critical to the city's economic fate.
Jason Calacanis, a tech investor and entrepreneur, tweeted on Thursday that "anyone who walks a couple of blocks in San Francisco (outside of Pac Whites where things seem to be oddly safe) knows how dangerous the city is," using slang to refer to the affluent Pacific Heights neighborhood.
The arrest, which was first reported by Mission Local on Thursday morning, capped days of speculation around the death of Mr. Lee, 43, a tech executive who was found bleeding by emergency medical workers at about 2:35 a.m. on April 4 on a sidewalk. The authorities and family members said he had been in San Francisco on business at the time of the assault.
Police officials declined to discuss details of the case or the motive, and Mr. Lee's brother said that his family was not well acquainted with the suspect, whom he portrayed as one among many tech entrepreneurs in his brother's orbit.
"From what we've learned recently, it seems like it was more like entrepreneurs and people trying to make their name in San Francisco," Oliver Lee said. But he added that the family did not share his brother's closer acquaintance with Mr. Momeni or know why the two might have met on the night the killing occurred.
Mr. Momeni's LinkedIn profile states that he owns a tech support company called Expand IT Inc., which is housed in a loft-like brick space in Emeryville, across the bay from San Francisco. According to his business card, his business focuses on the management of computer servers, cybersecurity and general I.T. support.
Alameda County court records show that Mr. Momeni was charged in 2011 with illegal possession of a switchblade and driving with a license that had been suspended because of a past conviction for driving while intoxicated. He pleaded no contest to the suspended license charge, and the knife charge was dismissed.
The charges being filed this week against Mr. Momeni include a penalty enhancement for murder committed with a knife.
Sam Singer, a Bay Area public relations executive who is Mr. Momeni's neighbor in the century-old steam-engine factory that has been converted into offices, described Mr. Momeni as a good neighbor, calling him "bright, hard-charging, charming." Mr. Momeni's office space was "a classic San Francisco Bay Area tech office" with a pool table, a high-end stereo system and gourmet food in the kitchen, Mr. Singer said.
Emptied of office workers during the pandemic, downtown San Francisco has experienced an increase in tent encampments and open-air drug use in its public spaces, fueling complaints that the city's compassion for homeless and mentally ill people has complicated its ability to maintain order. Property crimes have risen, and enough voters felt unsafe that they ousted the local prosecutor, Chesa Boudin, last year.
In the emotional aftermath of the killing, high-profile figures including Mr. Musk and Michael Arrington, the founder of the industry blog TechCrunch, blamed the city for Mr. Lee's death.
San Francisco recorded 56 homicides in 2017, but some violent crimes dipped early in the pandemic. In 2021 and 2022, the homicide count was back up to 56, according to data from the city's Police Department. Before Mr. Lee's death, the city had recorded a dozen killings this year, two more than in the same period the year before.
However, the high-profile crimes have continued to highlight the city's problems. Days after Mr. Lee was killed, for instance, a former fire commissioner was attacked with a metal pipe in the Marina District and left hospitalized; the victim's family blamed an encampment of homeless people that he had sought to force out of the upscale neighborhood. In March, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors approved a request from Mayor London Breed to spend an additional $ 25 million on police overtime.
Mr. Lee was known by his friends and relatives as a kind, brilliant man and a generous mentor, but also as a prodigiously energetic and social person, with an ability to stay out late even on weeknights. His online handle was Crazy Bob, a nickname he had earned while playing water polo in his youth.
He had risen to prominence first as the chief technology officer of the payment company Square -- which changed its name to Block in 2021 -- and then at MobileCoin, a cryptocurrency start-up based in San Francisco, where he was chief product officer at the time of his death. Colleagues said Mr. Lee also had been instrumental in creating the mobile payment service Cash App.
HIs brother, who called the loss "crushing," described him as an idealist who dreamed of democratizing technology and who loved art and music. Bob Lee's friendships were vast, Oliver Lee said, from the venture capital offices of Silicon Valley to the regular crowds at the annual art and music festival Burning Man. The brother said he had been told that Mr. Lee had visited a friend earlier on the night of his death. "Bob," he said, "would make time for anyone."
Similar to the attack in the Marina District, the stabbing of Mr. Lee occurred in an upscale part of the city known as Rincon Hill. A quiet neighborhood that is popular with tech workers, the area is near downtown and not far from Google's office and the stadium that is home to the San Francisco Giants, Oracle Park.
The neighborhood is a tech hub, and it caters by day to tech workers and other professionals with pour-over coffee shops, grab-and-go lunch counters and a specialty grocery store. But the streets tend to empty after dark as residents retreat into skyscraper condominiums.
Before moving to Miami -- Mr. Lee told friends that he liked the energy of the city's tech start-ups -- he lived in Mill Valley, an affluent community about 15 miles north of San Francisco in Marin County. Mr. Lee recently had shared a home with his father, according to his father's social media posts.
"Life has been an adventure with two bachelors living together, and I'm so happy that we were able to become so close these last years," the father, Rick Lee, posted on Facebook. "Bob would give you the shirt off his back. He would never look down on anyone and adhered to a strict no-judgment philosophy."
Kalley Huang, Tim Arango and Kate Conger contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Kalley Huang, Tim Arango and Kate Conger contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Photograph At the San Francisco Police Department headquarters on Wednesday, the police announced an arrest in the slaying of Bob Lee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Mobile commerce; Law enforcement; Public safety; Musicians & conductors; Neighborhoods; Violent crime; Homeless people; Stabbings; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Mobile commerce

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/13/us/bob-lee-cash-app-killing.html

Title: Tech Consultant Arrested in the Killing Of Cash App Creator in San Francisco:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 14, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2800446837

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-consultant-arrested-killing-cash-app-creator/docview/2800446837/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tech Consultant Arrested in San Francisco Killing of Cash App Creator

Author: LaFraniere, Sharon; Hubler, Shawn; Fuller, Thomas

Publication info: LaFraniere, Sharon; Hubler, Shawn; Fuller, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-consultant-arrested-san-francisco-killing/docview/2800350977/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — Nine days after the fatal late-night stabbing of Bob Lee set off a furious outcry over public safety in San Francisco, police said Thursday that they had arrested an acquaintance of the prominent tech executive on suspicion of murder.
Law enforcement officials identified the man accused in the killing as Nima Momeni, 38, a tech entrepreneur and consultant who family members said Lee had known personally.
The owner of an enterprise tech business in the East Bay city of Emeryville, Momeni was taken into custody there after an intense investigation that played out against heated claims that the killing reflected a city where the professional class was vulnerable to random attacks. Momeni was booked Thursday morning into the San Francisco County Jail and is scheduled to be arraigned on a murder charge Friday.
At a news conference, law enforcement officials acknowledged growing concerns about random violence and property crimes in the city but insisted that Lee’s killing did not fit that pattern.
“This has nothing to do with San Francisco. It has to do with human nature,” said Bill Scott, the city’s police chief.
Scott Wiener, a Democratic state senator who represents the city, said the rush to judgment by tech luminaries such as Elon Musk and colleagues of Lee, a well-known figure in the Silicon Valley, was both inaccurate and damaging to San Francisco, which has been straining to rebound from the coronavirus pandemic.
“This is the danger of making one crime into a symbol,” Wiener said. “This was a horrific, brutal murder, and I am so grateful that the police solved it so quickly. And San Francisco does have real public safety problems. But this particular crime does not appear to have anything to do with them.”
Lee’s brother, Oliver Lee, of Palo Alto, California, said in an interview Thursday that the moves to “co-opt” the tragedy had been agonizing for his family. “Bob loved being in San Francisco, and San Francisco loved Bob,” he said, adding that young people would stop his brother on the street there and ask for advice.
He said that his brother, a father of two who had recently relocated to Miami after spending most of his career in the Bay Area and Silicon Valley, had left the city for work reasons and had returned there often, both for business and to spend time with his teenage daughters, who continued to live in the Bay Area with his former wife.
Brooke Jenkins, the San Francisco district attorney, said that “the loss of a young, vibrant leader and innovator has rocked our city and even beyond.” But she criticized what she said were “reckless and irresponsible statements” portraying the city as a hotbed of violent crime, pointing to comments by Musk, the CEO of Twitter and Tesla, in particular.
Rates of violent crime have dipped or held steady over the past several years in the city of about 808,000 people. National crime data showed that the city’s murder rate in 2020 was low compared with that of other major American cities.
Nonetheless, the killing has continued to generate waves of recriminations and heightened tensions between the city and the tech sector that is so critical to the city’s economic fate.
Jason Calacanis, a tech investor and entrepreneur, tweeted Thursday that “anyone who walks a couple of blocks in San Francisco (outside of Pac Whites where things seem to be oddly safe) knows how dangerous the city is,” using slang to refer to the affluent Pacific Heights neighborhood.
The arrest, which was first reported by Mission Local on Thursday morning, capped days of speculation around the death of Lee, 43, who was found bleeding by emergency medical workers about 2:35 a.m. April 4 on a sidewalk. Authorities and family members said he had been in San Francisco on business at the time of the assault.
Police officials declined to discuss details of the case or the motive, and Lee’s brother said that his family was not well acquainted with the suspect, whom he portrayed as one among many tech entrepreneurs in his brother’s orbit.
“From what we’ve learned recently, it seems like it was more like entrepreneurs and people trying to make their name in San Francisco,” Oliver Lee said. But he added that the family did not share his brother’s closer acquaintance with Momeni or know why the two might have met on the night the killing occurred.
Momeni’s LinkedIn profile states that he owns a tech support company called Expand IT Inc., which is housed in a loftlike brick space in Emeryville, across the bay from San Francisco. According to his business card, his company focuses on the management of computer servers, cybersecurity and general IT support.
Alameda County court records show that Momeni was charged in 2011 with illegal possession of a switchblade and driving with a license that had been suspended because of a past conviction for driving while intoxicated. He pleaded no contest to the suspended license charge, and the knife charge was dismissed.
The charges being filed this week against Momeni include a penalty enhancement for murder committed with a knife.
Sam Singer, a Bay Area public relations executive who is Momeni’s neighbor in the century-old steam engine factory that has been converted into offices, described Momeni as a good neighbor, calling him “bright, hard-charging, charming.” Momeni’s office space was “a classic San Francisco Bay Area tech office” with a pool table, a high-end stereo system and gourmet food in the kitchen, Singer said.
Emptied of office workers during the pandemic, downtown San Francisco has experienced an increase in tent encampments and open-air drug use in its public spaces, fueling complaints that the city’s compassion for homeless and mentally ill people has complicated its ability to maintain order. Property crimes have risen, and enough voters felt unsafe that they ousted the local prosecutor, Chesa Boudin, last year.
In the emotional aftermath of the killing, high-profile figures including Musk and Michael Arrington, the founder of industry blog TechCrunch, blamed the city for Lee’s death.
San Francisco recorded 56 homicides in 2017, but some violent crimes dipped early in the pandemic. In 2021 and 2022, the homicide count was back up to 56, according to data from the city’s Police Department. Before Lee’s death, the city had recorded a dozen killings this year, two more than in the same period the year before.
However, the high-profile crimes have continued to highlight the city’s problems. Days after Lee was killed, for instance, a former fire commissioner was attacked with a metal pipe in the Marina District and left hospitalized; the victim’s family blamed an encampment of homeless people that he had sought to force out of the upscale neighborhood. In March, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors approved a request from Mayor London Breed to spend an additional $25 million on police overtime.
Lee was known by his friends and relatives as a kind, brilliant man and a generous mentor, but also as a prodigiously energetic and social person, with an ability to stay out late even on weeknights. His online handle was Crazy Bob, a nickname he had earned while playing water polo in his youth.
He had risen to prominence first as the chief technology officer of payment company Square — which changed its name to Block in 2021 — and then at MobileCoin, a cryptocurrency startup based in San Francisco, where he was chief product officer at the time of his death. Colleagues said Lee also had been instrumental in creating mobile payment service Cash App.
His brother, who called the loss “crushing,” described him as an idealist who dreamed of democratizing technology and who loved art and music. Bob Lee’s friendships were vast, Oliver Lee said, from the venture capital offices of Silicon Valley to the regular crowds at annual art and music festival Burning Man. The brother said he had been told that Lee had visited a friend earlier on the night of his death. “Bob,” he said, “would make time for anyone.”
Similar to the attack in the Marina District, the stabbing of Lee occurred in an upscale part of the city known as Rincon Hill. A quiet neighborhood that is popular with tech workers, the area is near downtown and not far from Google’s office and the stadium that is home to the San Francisco Giants, Oracle Park.
The neighborhood is a tech hub, and it caters by day to tech workers and other professionals with pour-over coffee shops, grab-and-go lunch counters and a specialty grocery store. But the streets tend to empty after dark as residents retreat into skyscraper condominiums.
Before moving to Miami — Lee told friends that he liked the energy of the city’s tech startups — he lived in Mill Valley, an affluent community about 15 miles north of San Francisco in Marin County. Lee recently had shared a home with his father, according to his father’s social media posts.
“Life has been an adventure with two bachelors living together, and I’m so happy that we were able to become so close these last years,” the father, Rick Lee, posted on Facebook. “Bob would give you the shirt off his back. He would never look down on anyone and adhered to a strict no-judgment philosophy.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Law enforcement; Public safety; Musicians & conductors; Startups; Homeless people; Stabbings; Pandemics; Mobile commerce; Neighborhoods; Violent crime

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Mobile commerce

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

Identifier / keyword: Linkedin Corporation; Block Inc; Marina District (San Francisco, Calif); RandomOrg; Police Department (San Francisco, Calif); San Francisco (Calif); Techcrunch; Enterprise Computing; Conway, Ron; Start Ups; Assaults; Breed, London; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Cash App (Mobile App); Calacanis, Jason; Jenkins, Brooke (District Attorney); Festivals; California; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Mill Valley (Calif); Marin County (Calif); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Pacific Heights (San Francisco, Calif); Police; San Francisco Giants; Google Inc; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Fuller, Thomas; Music; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Entrepreneurship; Emeryville (Calif); Wireless Communications; Shutdowns (Institutional); News And News Media; Twitter; Facebook Inc; Crime And Criminals; Deaths (Fatalities); Burning Man Festival; Lee, Bob (1979 2023); Water Polo; Wiener, Scott (1970 ); East Bay (San Francisco, Calif); Palo Alto (Calif); Lafraniere, Sharon; Alameda County (Calif); Silicon Valley (Calif); High Net Worth Individuals; Boudin, Chesa; Oracle Corporation; San Francisco Board Of Supervisors; Names, Organizational; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Condominiums; Urban Areas; Luxury Goods And Services

Title: Tech Consultant Arrested in San Francisco Killing of Cash App Creator

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 14, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-14T00:42:49Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2800350977

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-consultant-arrested-san-francisco-killing/docview/2800350977/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

California Stung As Vital Sectors Suffer Setbacks: [National Desk]

Author: Lee, Kurtis

Publication info: Lee, Kurtis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-stung-as-vital-sectors-suffer-setbacks/docview/2799336919/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As recession fears persist, the troubles in major industries have hurt tax revenues, turning the state's $ 100 billion surplus into a deficit.
California has often been at the country's economic forefront. Now, as fears of a national recession continue to nag, the state is hoping not to lead the way there.
While the California economy maintains its powerhouse status, outranking even those of most countries, the state's most-powerful sectors -- including tech companies and supply chain logistics -- have struggled to keep their footing, pummeled by high interest rates, investor skittishness, labor strife and other turmoil.
Even the weather hasn't cooperated. Severe flooding throughout much of the winter, caused by atmospheric rivers, has left farming communities in the Central Valley devastated, causing hundreds of millions of dollars in crop losses.
Thousands of Californians have been laid off in the last few months, the cost of living is increasingly astronomical, and Gov. Gavin Newsom revealed in January that the state faced a $ 22.5 billion deficit in the 2023-24 fiscal year -- a plummet from the $ 100 billion surplus a year ago.
"It's an EKG," Mr. Newsom said at the time, comparing a graph of the state's revenue to the sharp spikes and drops of the heart's electrical activity. "That sums up California's tax structure. It sums up the boom-bust."
The structure, which relies in large part on taxing the incomes of the wealthiest Californians, often translates into dips when Silicon Valley and Wall Street are uneasy, as they are now. Alphabet, the parent company of Google, one of the state's most prominent corporations, said in January that it was cutting 12,000 workers worldwide, and Silicon Valley Bank, a key lender to tech start-ups, collapsed last month, sending the federal government scrambling to limit the fallout.
This has coincided with a drop in venture capital funding as rising interest rates and recession fears have led investors to become more risk-averse. That money, which declined 36 percent globally from 2021 to 2022, according to the management consulting firm Bain & Company, is critical to Silicon Valley's ability to create jobs.
"The tech sector is the workhorse of the state's economy, it's the backbone," said Sung Won Sohn, a finance and economics professor at Loyola Marymount University. "These are high earners who might not be able to carry the state as much as they did in the past."
Entertainment, another pillar of California's economy, has also been in retreat as studios adjust to new viewing habits. Disney, based in Burbank, announced in February that it would eliminate 7,000 jobs worldwide.
In California alone, employment in the information sector, a category that includes technology and entertainment workers, declined by more than 16,000 from November to February, according to the latest Bureau of Labor Statistics data, which predates a recent wave of job cuts in March.
A recent survey from the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California found widespread pessimism about the economy. Two-thirds of respondents said they expected bad economic times for the state in the next year, and a solid majority -- 62 percent -- said they felt the state was already in a recession.
When Mr. Newsom announced the deficit earlier in the year, he vowed not to dip into the state's $ 37 billion in reserves, and instead called for pauses in funding for child care and reduced funding for climate change initiatives.
Joe Stephenshaw, director of the California Department of Finance, said in an interview that he and top economists had begun to spot points of concern -- persistent inflation, higher interest rates and a turbulent stock market -- on the state's horizon during the second half of last year.
"Those risks became realities," said Mr. Stephenshaw, an appointee of the governor.
He acknowledged that the problem was driven largely by declines in high earners' incomes, including from market-based compensation, such as stock options and bonus payments. As activity slowed, he said, interest rates rose and stock prices fell.
But the state's problems aren't limited to the tech industry.
California's robust supply chain, which drives nearly a third of the state's economy, has continued to buckle under stresses from the pandemic and an ongoing labor fight between longshoremen and port operators up and down the West Coast, which has prompted many shipping companies to rely instead on ports along the Gulf and East Coasts. Cargo processing at the Port of Los Angeles, a key entry point for shipments from Asia, was down 43 percent in February, compared with the year before.
"The longer it drags on, the more cargo will be diverted," said Geraldine Knatz, a professor of the practice of policy and engineering at the University of Southern California, who was executive director of the Port of Los Angeles from 2006 to 2014.
Still, wherever the economic cycle is leading, California heads into it with some strengths. Although unemployment in February, at 4.3 percent, was higher than in most states, it was lower than the rate a year earlier. In the San Francisco and San Jose metropolitan areas, unemployment was below 3.5 percent, better than the national average.
Over decades, California's economy has historically seen the highest of highs and the lowest of lows, part of the state's boom-bust history. During the recession of the early 1990s, largely driven by cuts to aerospace after the end of the Cold War, California was hit much harder than other parts of the country.
In March, the U.C.L.A. Anderson Forecast, which provides economic analysis, released projections for both the nation and California, pointing to two possible scenarios -- one in which a recession is avoided and another in which it occurs toward the end of this year.
"Even in our recession scenario we have a mild recession," said Jerry Nickelsburg, director of the Anderson Forecast.
Regardless of which scenario pans out, California's economy is likely to be better off than the national one, according to the report, which cited increased demand for software and defense goods, areas in which California is a leader. Mr. Nickelsburg also said the state's rainy-day fund was healthy enough to withstand the decline in tax revenues.
But that shortfall could complicate the speed at which Mr. Newsom can carry out some of his ambitious, progressive policies. In announcing the deficit, Mr. Newsom scaled back funding for climate proposals to $ 48 billion, from $ 54 billion.
The fiscal outlook also casts a cloud over progressive proposals, widely supported by Democrats, who have a supermajority in the Legislature.
A state panel that has been debating reparations for Black Californians is set to release its final report by midyear. Economists have projected that reparations could cost $ 800 billion to compensate for overpolicing, housing discrimination and disproportionate incarceration rates. Once the panel releases its report, it will be up to lawmakers in Sacramento to decide how much state revenue would support reparations -- a concept that Mr. Newsom has endorsed.
Through all this, one thing has remained constant: Many Californians say their biggest economic concern is housing costs.
The median value for a single-family home in California is about $ 719,000 -- up nearly 1 percent from last year, according to Zillow -- and recent census data shows that some of the state's biggest metro areas, including Los Angeles and San Francisco Counties, have continued to shrink. (In Texas, where many Californians have relocated, the median home value is about $ 289,000.)
Still, some Californians remain optimistic.
Zeeshan Haque, a former software engineer at Google, learned in January that he was being laid off. His last day was March 31.
"It was out of nowhere and very abrupt," said Mr. Haque, 32, who recently moved from the Bay Area to Los Angeles.
He bought a $ 740,000 house in the city's Chatsworth neighborhood in February and spent time focusing on renovations. But in recent weeks, he has begun to look for a new job. He recently updated his LinkedIn avatar to show the hashtag #opentowork and said he hoped to land a new job soon.
"It's just very competitive at this time because of so many layoffs," he said.
Ben Casselman contributed reporting.
Ben Casselman contributed reporting.
Photograph Though many of its economic pillars have struggled, California remains a powerhouse. Right, cargo processing at the Port of Los Angeles was down 43 percent in February, compared with the year before. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ALEX WELSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Economic conditions; Venture capital; Supply chains; Interest rates; Tax revenues; Layoffs; Recessions; Business conditions; High tech industries; Budget deficits; Entertainment industry

Business indexing term: Subject: Economic conditions Venture capital Supply chains Interest rates Tax revenues Layoffs Recessions Business conditions High tech industries Budget deficits Entertainment industry

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; California; Los Angeles California; San Francisco California

People: Newsom, Gavin

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/11/business/economy/california-economy.html

Title: California Stung As Vital Sectors Suffer Setbacks:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 12, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2799336919

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-stung-as-vital-sectors-suffer-setbacks/docview/2799336919/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Body Cam Shows Ambush of Louisville Officers by Gunman: [National Desk]

Author: Williams, Kevin; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Arango, Tim

Publication info: Williams, Kevin; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Arango, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/body-cam-shows-ambush-louisville-officers-gunman/docview/2799336882/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The police released body camera video on Tuesday afternoon from officers who responded to the shooting at a downtown bank.
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- The 25-year-old man who opened fire on Monday at a bank in downtown Louisville, killing five people, told at least one person that he was suicidal before the rampage and legally purchased the AR-15-style rifle used in the shooting at a local dealership last week, officials said on Tuesday.
"We know he left a note," Representative Morgan McGarvey, a Democrat whose district includes Louisville, said of the gunman at a news conference. "We know he texted or called at least one person to let them know he was suicidal and contemplating harm."
Later on Tuesday, the city released body camera footage of the police confrontation. It showed two officers -- a rookie and his training officer -- pulling up in their squad car outside Old National Bank on East Main Street at 8:41 a.m. on Monday, three minutes after receiving reports of shots fired. The gunman, having already shot his victims on the building's first floor, was waiting inside its glass-strewn lobby to ambush the police, who could not see through the building's dark windows.
The footage, with some graphic portions blurred out, shows a quick initial gun battle, and Officer Nickolas Wilt, who graduated from the police academy weeks earlier, being shot.
Taking cover, Officer Cory Galloway, waiting for reinforcements, fires a hail of bullets into the lobby about three minutes after his partner is shot, killing the assailant. "I think he's down!" he yells. "Suspect down, get the officer!"
In all, nine minutes passed from the first reports of gunfire until the assailant was killed, the police said.
Officer Wilt was among four victims who remained hospitalized on Tuesday, said Dr. Jason Smith, the chief medical officer at University of Louisville Health. He was in critical condition after being shot in the head, as was one other victim. Four other people who were wounded were released from the hospital. Another who initially survived the shooting, Deana Eckert, 57, died overnight.
The others who were fatally shot, all employees of Old National Bank like Ms. Eckert, were Joshua Barrick, 40; Thomas Elliott, 63; Juliana Farmer, 45; and James Tutt, 64. Mr. Elliott, a vice president at the bank, was a prominent Democratic fund-raiser and close friend to Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky.
Mayor Craig Greenberg of Louisville, a Democrat, praised the quick response from the Red Cross, which provided 170 units of blood to treat victims on Monday. Noting the enormous amount of blood needed to treat gunshot wounds, Mayor Greenberg urged residents of Louisville to donate blood. And to help the community process the trauma of Monday's shooting, which the mayor described as an "inexplicable act of violence and cruelty," the city was planning a vigil on Wednesday evening at the Muhammad Ali Center Plaza.
The police have identified the gunman as Connor Sturgeon, a University of Alabama graduate who listed his profession as a "syndications associate and portfolio banker" at Old National Bank on his LinkedIn page. Mayor Greenberg said he had access to the building because he was "a current employee."
As officials dealt with the fallout from the mass shooting on Tuesday, several made emotional pleas to address the gun violence epidemic gripping the country and Louisville, where they said 40 people had died this year in shootings. One person was killed in a separate shooting on Monday, several blocks from Old National Bank.
"To be honest with you, we barely had to adjust our operating room schedule to be able to do this," Dr. Smith said of caring for the nine patients the hospital received from the bank shooting. "That's how frequently we are having to deal with gun violence in our community."
With his voice breaking, Dr. Smith, who has worked at the hospital for 15 years, described his job almost as if he were a combat medic in a war zone. "It's more than tired," he said. "I'm weary. There's only so many times you can walk into a room and tell someone they are not coming home tomorrow. And it just breaks your heart when you hear someone screaming Mommy or Daddy. It just becomes too hard, day in and day out, to be able to do that."
The Louisville Metro Police Department has been under intense scrutiny in recent years after a botched raid in 2020 that killed Breonna Taylor, a Black woman whose death provoked widespread protests; a recent Justice Department report documented entrenched racial bias and misconduct in the Police Department. But the department drew wide praise for its fast response to Monday's shooting, and it was quick to release the footage that showed it.
"Chief, your team was incredible yesterday," Mr. McGarvey said at Tuesday's news conference, addressing Jacquelyn Gwinn-Villaroel, the interim police chief. "To run headfirst into that gunfire without question saved lives. It also changed lives. Officer Wilt, as we know, is fighting right now after being struck in the head by an AR-15 round on his fourth-ever shift as a police officer."
The gunman graduated from Floyd Central High School in Floyds Knobs, Ind., near Louisville, in 2016, and later earned degrees in business and science from the University of Alabama. People who knew him in high school were "shocked that someone, seemingly so nice and from a typically normal background, could do something so heinously vile," said Madison DeStephanis, a high school classmate.
Another former classmate, Chris Harbeson-Borgelt, wrote on Facebook that he was similarly stunned to see that Mr. Sturgeon had become "the monster that murdered innocent lives today."
Mr. Sturgeon played varsity basketball in high school under his father, who was the team's head coach and had previously been the men's basketball coach at the University of Indianapolis. He had suffered concussions when he was younger that required him to wear protective headgear on the basketball court, according to Brian Glasing, who was Mr. Sturgeon's gym teacher.
Lane Oxley, who coached Mr. Sturgeon on the high school track team, said that he was "one of the leaders of the team by example."
The shooting set off a familiar pattern of grief and resignation for a country that has grown accustomed to frequent rampages of gun violence, with politicians offering prayers and expressing outrage and making calls for gun control legislation that will most likely go unrealized.
Mr. McGarvey, the only Democrat in Kentucky's eight-member congressional delegation, called for universal background checks on Tuesday, and measures known as red flag laws that would allow the state to take guns from people believed at risk of harming themselves or others.
"We don't have the tools on the books to deal with someone who is an imminent danger to themselves or to others," he said.
Mayor Greenberg implored Kentucky's political leaders to allow Louisville, a blue bastion in a largely conservative state, to enact its own gun control laws -- especially, he said, if they cared about protecting police officers.
"Please, change our state law to let Louisville make its own decisions about reducing the amount of illegal guns on our streets and gun violence that is killing far too many people in mass shootings, in individual shootings, in any shootings," he said.
He also angrily denounced a law that allows the state of Kentucky to auction off weapons from shootings to the public after investigations are complete.
"Think about that," Mr. Greenberg said, noting that he has ordered his administration to remove firing pins from confiscated weapons before handing them over to the state. "That murder weapon will be back on the streets one day under Kentucky's current law."
Jacey Fortin contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière, Kitty Bennett and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Jacey Fortin contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière, Kitty Bennett and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Flowers on the steps outside Old National Bank in downtown Louisville, Ky., where five people were killed in a shooting on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATOSHA VIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Press conferences; Body cameras; National banks; Gun violence; Criminal investigations; Coaches & managers; Mass murders; Firearm laws & regulations; High school basketball; Camcorders

Business indexing term: Subject: National banks

Location: United States--US; Kentucky

People: Sturgeon, Connor

Company / organization: Name: University of Alabama; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/11/us/louisville-shooting-gunman.html

Title: Body Cam Shows Ambush of Louisville Officers by Gunman:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 12, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2799336882

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/body-cam-shows-ambush-louisville-officers-gunman/docview/2799336882/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

California Economy Is on Edge After Tech Layoffs and Studio Cutbacks

Author: Lee, Kurtis

Publication info: Lee, Kurtis. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-economy-is-on-edge-after-tech-layoffs/docview/2799233521/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LOS ANGELES — California has often been at the country’s economic forefront. Now, as fears of a national recession continue to nag, the state is hoping not to lead the way there.
While the California economy maintains its powerhouse status, outranking even those of most countries, the state’s most-powerful sectors — including tech companies and supply chain logistics — have struggled to keep their footing, pummeled by high interest rates, investor skittishness, labor strife and other turmoil.
Even the weather hasn’t cooperated. Severe flooding throughout much of the winter, caused by atmospheric rivers, has left farming communities in the Central Valley devastated, causing hundreds of millions of dollars in crop losses.
Thousands of Californians have been laid off in the past few months, the cost of living is increasingly astronomical, and Gov. Gavin Newsom revealed in January that the state faced a $22.5 billion deficit in the 2023-24 fiscal year — a plummet from the $100 billion surplus a year ago.
“It’s an EKG,” Newsom said at the time, comparing a graph of the state’s revenue to the sharp spikes and drops of the heart’s electrical activity. “That sums up California’s tax structure. It sums up the boom-bust.”
The structure, which relies in large part on taxing the incomes of the wealthiest Californians, often translates into dips when Silicon Valley and Wall Street are uneasy, as they are now. Alphabet, the parent company of Google, one of the state’s most prominent corporations, said in January that it was cutting 12,000 workers worldwide, and Silicon Valley Bank, a key lender to tech startups, collapsed last month, sending the federal government scrambling to limit the fallout.
This has coincided with a drop in venture capital funding as rising interest rates and recession fears have led investors to become more risk-averse. That money, which declined 36% globally from 2021 to 2022, according to management consulting firm Bain & Co., is critical to Silicon Valley’s ability to create jobs.
“The tech sector is the workhorse of the state’s economy, it’s the backbone,” said Sung Won Sohn, a finance and economics professor at Loyola Marymount University. “These are high earners who might not be able to carry the state as much as they did in the past.”
Entertainment, another pillar of California’s economy, has also been in retreat as studios adjust to new viewing habits. The Walt Disney Co., based in Burbank, announced in February that it would eliminate 7,000 jobs worldwide.
In California alone, employment in the information sector, a category that includes technology and entertainment workers, declined by more than 16,000 from November to February, according to the latest Bureau of Labor Statistics data, which predates a recent wave of job cuts in March.
A recent survey from the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California found widespread pessimism about the economy. Two-thirds of respondents said they expected bad economic times for the state in the next year, and a solid majority — 62% — said they felt the state was already in a recession.
When Newsom announced the deficit earlier in the year, he vowed not to dip into the state’s $37 billion in reserves, and instead called for pauses in funding for child care and reduced funding for climate change initiatives.
Joe Stephenshaw, director of the California Department of Finance, said in an interview that he and top economists had begun to spot points of concern — persistent inflation, higher interest rates and a turbulent stock market — on the state’s horizon during the second half of last year.
“Those risks became realities,” said Stephenshaw, an appointee of the governor.
He acknowledged that the problem was driven largely by declines in high earners’ incomes, including from market-based compensation, such as stock options and bonus payments. As activity slowed, he said, interest rates rose and stock prices fell.
But the state’s problems aren’t limited to the tech industry.
California’s robust supply chain, which drives nearly one-third of the state’s economy, has continued to buckle under stresses from the pandemic and an ongoing labor fight between longshoremen and port operators up and down the West Coast, which has prompted many shipping companies to rely instead on ports along the Gulf and East coasts. Cargo processing at the Port of Los Angeles, a key entry point for shipments from Asia, was down 43% in February, compared with the year before.
“The longer it drags on, the more cargo will be diverted,” said Geraldine Knatz, a professor of the practice of policy and engineering at the University of Southern California, who was executive director of the Port of Los Angeles from 2006 to 2014.
Still, wherever the economic cycle is leading, California heads into it with some strengths. Although unemployment in February, at 4.3%, was higher than in most states, it was lower than the rate a year earlier. In the San Francisco and San Jose metropolitan areas, unemployment was below 3.5%, better than the national average.
Over decades, California’s economy has historically seen the highest of highs and the lowest of lows, part of the state’s boom-bust history. During the recession of the early 1990s, largely driven by cuts to aerospace after the end of the Cold War, California was hit much harder than other parts of the country.
In March, the UCLA Anderson Forecast, which provides economic analysis, released projections for both the nation and California, pointing to two possible scenarios — one in which a recession is avoided and another in which it occurs toward the end of this year.
“Even in our recession scenario we have a mild recession,” said Jerry Nickelsburg, director of the Anderson Forecast.
Regardless of which scenario pans out, California’s economy is likely to be better off than the national one, according to the report, which cited increased demand for software and defense goods, areas in which California is a leader. Nickelsburg also said the state’s rainy-day fund was healthy enough to withstand the decline in tax revenues.
But that shortfall could complicate the speed at which Newsom can carry out some of his ambitious, progressive policies. In announcing the deficit, Newsom scaled back funding for climate proposals to $48 billion, from $54 billion.
The fiscal outlook casts a cloud over progressive proposals, widely supported by Democrats, who have a supermajority in the Legislature.
A state panel that has been debating reparations for Black Californians is set to release its final report by midyear. Economists have projected that reparations could cost $800 billion to compensate for overpolicing, housing discrimination and disproportionate incarceration rates. Once the panel releases its report, it will be up to lawmakers in Sacramento to decide how much state revenue would support reparations — a concept that Newsom has endorsed.
Through all this, one thing has remained constant: Many Californians say their biggest economic concern is housing costs.
The median value for a single-family home in California is about $719,000 — up nearly 1% from last year, according to Zillow — and recent census data shows that some of the state’s biggest metro areas, including Los Angeles and San Francisco counties, have continued to shrink. (In Texas, where many Californians have relocated, the median home value is about $289,000.)
Still, some Californians remain optimistic.
Zeeshan Haque, a former software engineer at Google, learned in January that he was being laid off. His last day was March 31.
“It was out of nowhere and very abrupt,” said Haque, 32, who recently moved from the Bay Area to Los Angeles.
He bought a $740,000 house in the city’s Chatsworth neighborhood in February and spent time focusing on renovations. But in recent weeks, he has begun to look for a new job. He recently updated his LinkedIn avatar to show the hashtag #opentowork and said he hoped to land a new job soon.
“It’s just very competitive at this time because of so many layoffs,” he said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Software; Ports; Funding; Reparations; Economic conditions; Venture capital; Housing; Supply chains; Interest rates; Layoffs; Recessions

Business indexing term: Subject: Ports Economic conditions Venture capital Supply chains Interest rates Layoffs Recessions

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; California; Los Angeles California; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: Port of Los Angeles; NAICS: 488310, 925120

Identifier / keyword: ZillowCom; University Of California, Los Angeles; Burbank (Calif); Walt Disney Company; San Jose (Calif); Banking And Financial Institutions; Bonuses; Alphabet Inc; Economic Conditions And Trends; Linkedin Corporation; Budgets And Budgeting; Politics And Government; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; California; Freight (Cargo); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Silicon Valley Bank; Google Inc; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Recession And Depression; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Families And Family Life; Texas; Discrimination; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); Law And Legislation; Black People; Inflation (Economics); De mocratic Party; Loyola Marymount University; Bain & Co; Polls And Public Opinion; Newsom, Gavin; San Francisco (Calif); University Of Southern California; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Silicon Valley (Calif); Reparations; Central Valley (Calif); Compensation For Damages (Law); Sacramento (Calif); Supply Chain; Economics (Theory And Philosophy); Public Policy Institute Of California; Business; Port Of Los Angeles (Calif); Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Colleges And Universities; Bureau Of Labor Statistics; Wines; United States Economy

Title: California Economy Is on Edge After Tech Layof fs and Studio Cutbacks

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-11T19:32:01Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2799233521

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/california-economy-is-on-edge-after-tech-layoffs/docview/2799233521/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gunman Kills 4 Louisville Bank Co-Workers on Livestream: [National Desk]

Author: Williams, Kevin; Holpuch, Amanda; Robertson, Campbell

Publication info: Williams, Kevin; Holpuch, Amanda; Robertson, Campbell. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gunman-kills-4-louisville-bank-co-workers-on/docview/2798906318/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The police did not give a motive for the shooting in the Kentucky city but said that the gunman, who also died, had been a bank employee.
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- A 25-year-old man shot and killed five colleagues with a rifle on Monday at the downtown bank where he worked, the police said. Eight others were wounded in the attack, two of them critically. The suspect, who officials said was livestreaming the rampage, was killed by the police after exchanging fire with them.
The police identified four of the victims as employees of Old National Bank: Joshua Barrick, 40; Thomas Elliott, 63; Juliana Farmer, 45; and James Tutt, 64. The fifth victim, Deanna Eckert, 57, also worked there, according to a LinkedIn page; she initially survived the shooting but died on Monday night, the police said. Among the critically wounded was Nickolas Wilt, 26, who had graduated from the police academy on March 31.
Jacquelyn Gwinn-Villaroel, the interim chief of the Louisville Metro Police Department, identified the shooter as Connor Sturgeon. According to a LinkedIn page, he was a "syndications associate and portfolio banker" at Old National, a regional bank. He had worked there full time for nearly two years after interning there over previous summers. The police did not specify a motive.
Several national political figures, including President Biden, issued statements on Monday deploring the violence in Louisville and urging action on gun legislation. Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky, a Democrat, said that the day ought to be focused on "friends and loved ones that are no longer with us."
Still, the morning that unfolded in Louisville was a snapshot of a country echoing with gunfire. Not long after the police had responded to the massacre at the bank, two people were shot, one fatally, outside a community college less than two miles away. It was not immediately clear what had led to that shooting.
"The two incidents appear to be entirely unrelated," Mayor Craig Greenberg of Louisville said at an afternoon news conference. "But they both took lives. They both leave people scarred, grieving and angry. I share all of those feelings myself right now."
"I'm a survivor of a workplace shooting," said the mayor, who was shot at in his office last year by a young man with mental health troubles. "To the people who survived, whether you were physically hurt or not, I know that you're hurting, too."
The branch of the Old National Bank where the shooting took place sits in a quarter of downtown Louisville crowded with condos and office buildings, not far from the Ohio River. The building shares a block with the Louisville Ballet and is across the street from Louisville Slugger Field, a ballpark where the minor-league Louisville Bats play.
Troy Haste, an account executive with Old National Bank, was in a conference room on Monday morning when the gunfire started, he told WHAS, a local ABC affiliate. "We heard a click, and the lady next to me turned around and said, 'What the hell?"' Mr. Haste said. "And he just started shooting. He had a long assault rifle, and the shots just started firing."
Chief Gwinn-Villaroel said that the police had received reports of shots fired at the bank at 8:38 a.m. "Officers were on the scene within three minutes," she said. "The suspect shot at officers. We then returned fire and stopped that threat."
The chief said she was not aware of any prior engagement the gunman might have had with the police. She did not give any further details about his livestreaming of the mass shooting, other than to say that it was "tragic to know that incident was out there being captured."
The University of Louisville Hospital received nine patients, including two police officers, from the shooting, said Dr. Jason W. Smith, the chief medical officer at the hospital. Three had been released as of Monday afternoon, three remained in the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries, and three -- including Ms. Eckert -- were critically wounded and had required operations, Dr. Smith said. Officer Wilt required brain surgery, he added.
Ms. Eckert's death was announced about six hours later.
Officials and Louisville residents praised the quick response of the Louisville police, who faced serious criticism after the botched raid that killed Breonna Taylor in 2020. Just last month, the Justice Department released a 90-page report condemning the department over what it identified as a wide range of abuses and misconduct.
"I know that there are steps that the police department is taking to do things better after a recent report," Mr. Beshear said at a midday news conference. "But we certainly saw, I think, the very best from them today."
By Monday afternoon, vigils had been announced around the city as Louisville began mourning the dead. At Holy Trinity Catholic Church on Monday evening, the Rev. Shayne Duvall spoke to the hundreds gathered in the pews about Mr. Barrick, describing him as "a very active, hands-on, ideal parishioner."
"The last conversation I had with him was two weeks ago, and he said to me, 'I will do anything I can for you -- just let me know what you need,"' Father Duvall said.
Another of the victims, Mr. Elliott, a vice president of the bank, was a well-known Democratic fund-raiser and a longtime friend of the governor's family.
"We lost four children of God today, one of whom was one of my closest friends," said Governor Beshear, who had to stop to collect his emotions as he spoke. "Tommy Elliott helped me build my law career, helped me become governor, gave me advice on being a good dad. He's one of the people I talk to most in the world, and very rarely were we talking about my job. He was an incredible friend."
State Senator David Yates, a Democrat, described Mr. Elliott as a political "kingmaker" who had been a generous presence in his own career. He recalled once taking a four-and-a-half-hour Greyhound bus ride to a government conference with Mr. Elliott, who had been supportive of Mr. Yates's fledgling political ambitions when he was fresh out of law school. They talked about "what we could do to make the world a better place," Mr. Yates said.
Mr. Beshear, who based his 2015 campaign for attorney general in the bank building, said he had initially thought that he had lost two other friends in the shooting. One turned out to be OK, he said at a news conference, and another was in the emergency room. "While it's going to take him a while to heal, it was so good to see my friend -- see him there with his wife and know he is still with us," the governor said.
Mr. Beshear's public remarks about his connections to the victims in the shooting on Monday came weeks after Gov. Bill Lee of Tennessee announced that his wife, Maria, had been a friend of two of the six people killed last month in the Covenant School shooting in Nashville. Mr. Lee said that his wife had known Katherine Koonce, the head of the school, and Cindy Peak, who was supposed to have had dinner with Mr. and Mrs. Lee on the night of the shooting.
State Representative Keturah Herron, a Democrat who represents part of Louisville, said on Twitter that shootings like Monday's were "happening around the country in a city daily."
"Today was our turn," she said, adding, "We live in a war zone and we shouldn't have to."
Reporting was contributed by Johnny Diaz and Jesus Jiménez. Kitty Bennett, Alain Delaquérière and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Reporting was contributed by Johnny Diaz and Jesus Jiménez. Kitty Bennett, Alain Delaquérière and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph The Old National Bank is in a crowded quarter of downtown Louisville, across the street from a minor-league baseball stadium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATOSHA VIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Fatalities; Shootings; Mass murders; Firearm laws & regulations; Banks; Workplace violence; Gun violence; Massacres; Streaming media

Business indexing term: Subject: Banks Workplace violence

Location: United States--US; Kentucky; Louisville Kentucky

People: Sturgeon, Connor

Company / organization: Name: Old National Bank-Evansville IN; NAICS: 522110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/10/us/louisville-kentucky-shooting.html

Title: Gunman Kills 4 Louisville Bank Co-Workers on Livestream:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2798906318

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gunman-kills-4-louisville-bank-co-workers-on/docview/2798906318/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gunman Kills 5 Co-workers at Louisville Bank on Livestream, Police Say

Author: Williams, Kevin; Holpuch, Amanda; Robertson, Campbell

Publication info: Williams, Kevin; Holpuch, Amanda; Robertson, Campbell. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gunman-kills-5-co-workers-at-louisville-bank-on/docview/2798892439/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — A 25-year-old man shot and killed five colleagues with a rifle Monday at the downtown bank where he worked, police said. Eight others were wounded in the attack, two of them critically. The suspect, who officials said was livestreaming the rampage, was killed by police after exchanging fire with them.
Police identified four of the victims as employees of Old National Bank: Joshua Barrick, 40; Thomas Elliott, 63; Juliana Farmer, 45; and James Tutt, 64. The fifth victim, Deanna Eckert, 57, also worked there, according to a LinkedIn page; she initially survived the shooting but died Monday night, police said. Among the critically wounded was Nickolas Wilt, 26, who had graduated from the police academy March 31.
Jacquelyn Gwinn-Villaroel, interim chief of the Louisville Metro Police Department, identified the shooter as Connor Sturgeon. According to a LinkedIn page, he was a “syndications associate and portfolio banker” at Old National, a regional bank. He had worked there full time for nearly two years after interning there over previous summers. Police did not specify a motive.
Several national political figures, including President Joe Biden, issued statements Monday deploring the violence in Louisville and urging action on gun legislation. Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear, a Democrat, said the day ought to be focused on “friends and loved ones that are no longer with us.”
Still, the morning that unfolded in Louisville was a snapshot of a country echoing with gunfire. Not long after police had responded to the massacre at the bank, two people were shot, one fatally, outside a community college less than 2 miles away. It was not immediately clear what had led to that shooting.
“The two incidents appear to be entirely unrelated,” Louisville Mayor Craig Greenberg said at an afternoon news conference. “But they both took lives. They both leave people scarred, grieving and angry. I share all of those feelings myself right now.”
“I’m a survivor of a workplace shooting,” said Greenberg, who was shot at in his office last year by a young man with mental health troubles. “To the people who survived, whether you were physically hurt or not, I know that you’re hurting, too.”
The branch of the Old National Bank where the shooting took place sits in a quarter of downtown Louisville crowded with condos and office buildings, not far from the Ohio River. The building shares a block with the Louisville Ballet and is across the street from Louisville Slugger Field, a ballpark where the minor league Louisville Bats play.
Troy Haste, an account executive with Old National Bank, was in a conference room Monday morning when the gunfire started, he told WHAS, a local ABC affiliate. “We heard a click, and the lady next to me turned around and said, ‘What the hell?,’” Haste said. “And he just started shooting. He had a long assault rifle, and the shots just started firing.”
Gwinn-Villaroel said police had received reports of shots fired at the bank at 8:38 a.m. “Officers were on the scene within three minutes,” she said. “The suspect shot at officers. We then returned fire and stopped that threat.”
Gwinn-Villaroel said she was not aware of any prior engagement the gunman might have had with police. She did not give any further details about his livestreaming of the mass shooting, other than to say it was “tragic to know that incident was out there being captured.”
The University of Louisville Hospital received nine patients, including two police officers, from the shooting, said Dr. Jason Smith, chief medical officer at the hospital. Three had been released as of Monday afternoon, three remained in the hospital with nonlife-threatening injuries, and three — including Eckert — were critically wounded and had required operations, Smith said. Wilt required brain surgery, Smith added.
Eckert’s death was announced about six hours later.
Officials and Louisville residents praised the quick response of Louisville police, who faced serious criticism after the botched raid that killed Breonna Taylor in 2020. Just last month, the Justice Department released a 90-page report condemning the department over what it identified as a wide range of abuses and misconduct.
“I know that there are steps that the police department is taking to do things better after a recent report,” Beshear said at a midday news conference. “But we certainly saw, I think, the very best from them today.”
By Monday afternoon, vigils had been announced around the city as Louisville began mourning the dead. At Holy Trinity Catholic Church on Monday evening, the Rev. Shayne Duvall spoke to the hundreds gathered in the pews about Barrick, describing him as “a very active, hands-on, ideal parishioner.”
“The last conversation I had with him was two weeks ago, and he said to me, ‘I will do anything I can for you — just let me know what you need,’” Duvall said.
Elliott, a vice president of the bank, was a well-known Democratic fundraiser and a longtime friend of Beshear’s family.
“We lost four children of God today, one of whom was one of my closest friends,” said Beshear, who had to stop to collect his emotions as he spoke. “Tommy Elliott helped me build my law career, helped me become governor, gave me advice on being a good dad. He’s one of the people I talk to most in the world, and very rarely were we talking about my job. He was an incredible friend.”
State Sen. David Yates, a Democrat, described Elliott as a political “kingmaker” who had been a generous presence in his own career. He recalled once taking a 4 1/2-hour Greyhound bus ride to a government conference with Elliott, who had been supportive of Yates’ fledgling political ambitions when he was fresh out of law school. They talked about “what we could do to make the world a better place,” Yates said.
Beshear, who based his 2015 campaign for attorney general in the bank building, said he had initially thought that he had lost two other friends in the shooting. One turned out to be OK, he said at a news conference, and another was in the emergency room. “While it’s going to take him awhile to heal, it was so good to see my friend — see him there with his wife and know he is still with us,” Beshear said.
Beshear’s public remarks about his connections to the victims in Monday’s shooting came weeks after Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee announced that his wife, Maria, had been a friend of two of the six people killed last month in the Covenant School shooting in Nashville. Lee said his wife had known Katherine Koonce, head of the school, and Cindy Peak, who was supposed to have had dinner with the Lees on the night of the shooting.
State Rep. Keturah Herron, a Democrat who represents part of Louisville, said on Twitter that shootings like Monday’s were “happening around the country in a city daily.”
“Today was our turn,” she said, adding, “We live in a war zone, and we shouldn’t have to.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fatalities; Police departments; Workplace violence; Shootings; National banks; Gun violence; Mass murders; Firearm laws & regulations; Massacres

Business indexing term: Subject: Workplace violence National banks

Location: United States--US; Louisville Kentucky; Kentucky

People: Beshear, Andy; Sturgeon, Connor

Company / organization: Name: Police Department-Louisville KY; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Attacks On Police; Politics And Government; Bureau Of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms And Explosives; Beshear, Andrew G (1977 ); Greyhound Lines; Ohio; Louisville, Ky, Bank Shooting (April 2023); Lee, William Byron (1959 ); Hospitals; School Shootings And Armed Attacks; Campaign Finance; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Police Department (Louisville, Ky); Banking And Financial Institutions; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Taylor, Breonna (1993 2020); United States; Minor Leagues; Chao, Elaine L; University Of Louisville; Linkedin Corporation; Justice Department; Robertson, Campbell; Kentucky; Philanthropy; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Social Media; Roman Catholic Church; Executives And Management (Theory); Law And Legislation; Black People; News And News Media; Twitter; Facebook Inc; Workplace Environment; Democratic Party; Deaths (Fatalities); Elections, Governors; New York State; Greenberg, Craig; Mcconnell, Mitch; Fires And Firefighters; Mass Shootings; Nashville (Tenn); Labor And Jobs; Louisville (Ky); Covenant School, Nashville, Tenn, Shooting (2023); Tennessee; Firearms; Ohio River; Colleges And Universities; Doctors; Elections, Attorneys General; Appointments And Executive Changes; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Funerals And Memorials; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: Gunman Kills 5 Co-workers at Louisville Bank on Livestream, Police Say

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Ap r 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-11T03:18:39Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2798892439

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gunman-kills-5-co-workers-at-louisville-bank-on/docview/2798892439/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Gunman Kills 4 Co-Workers at Louisville Bank on Livestream, Police Say

Author: Robertson, Campbell; Holpuch, Amanda

Publication info: Robertson, Campbell; Holpuch, Amanda. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gunman-kills-4-co-workers-at-louisville-bank-on/docview/2798846493/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
A man in his 20s shot and killed four colleagues with a rifle at the bank where he worked in downtown Louisville, Kentucky, on Monday morning, police said. Nine others were wounded in the attack, three of them critically. The suspect, who officials said was livestreaming the rampage, was killed by police after exchanging fire on the scene.
Police identified the four victims, all employees of Old National Bank, as Joshua Barrick, 40; Thomas Elliott, 63; Juliana Farmer, 45; and James Tutt, 64. Among the critically wounded was Nicholas Wilt, 26, who graduated from the police academy March 31.
Louisville Metro Police Chief Jacquelyn Gwinn-Villaroel identified the shooter as Connor Sturgeon. According to a LinkedIn page, he had worked full time at the bank for nearly two years after interning there over previous summers. Police did not specify a motive.
Several national political figures, including President Joe Biden, issued statements Monday deploring the violence in Louisville and urging action on gun legislation, although Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear, a Democrat, said that Monday ought to be focused on “friends and loved ones that are no longer with us.”
Still, the morning that unfolded in Louisville was a snapshot of a country echoing with gunfire. Not long after police had responded to the massacre at the bank, two people were shot, one fatally, outside of a community college less than two miles away. It was not immediately clear what led to that shooting.
“The two incidents appear to be entirely unrelated,” said Mayor Craig Greenberg. “But they both took lives. They both leave people scarred, grieving and angry. I share all of those feelings myself right now.”
“I’m a survivor of a workplace shooting,” said Greenberg, who was shot at in his office last year by a young man with mental health troubles. “To the people who survived, whether you were physically hurt or not, I know that you’re hurting, too.”
Gwinn-Villaroel said police had received reports of shots fired at Old National Bank at 8:38 a.m. “Officers were on the scene within three minutes,” she said. “The suspect shot at officers. We then returned fire and stopped that threat.”
The bank is in a crowded quarter of downtown Louisville, across the street from Louisville Slugger Field, a minor league baseball stadium.
The University of Louisville Hospital received nine patients, including two police officers, from the shooting, said Dr. Jason Smith, chief medical officer at the hospital. Three of them had been released as of Monday afternoon, three remained in the hospital with nonlife-threatening injuries and three were critically wounded and had required operations, Smith said. Wilt had required brain surgery, Smith added.
“They’ve got long roads ahead of them,” Smith said. “But if we can get through 24 hours, then we will take another 24 hours. And we will keep doing that until they get out of the hospital.”
“We lost four children of God today,” said Beshear, who had to stop to collect his emotions as he spoke, “one of whom was one of my closest friends. Tommy Elliott helped me build my law career, helped me become governor, gave me advice on being a good dad. He’s one of the people I talk to most in the world and very rarely were we talking about my job. He was an incredible friend.”
Elliott was senior vice president of Old National Bank, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Beshear had run his 2015 campaign for state attorney general from the bank building, he said, adding that he knew “virtually everyone” inside. “That’s my bank,” he said.
State Rep. Keturah Herron, a Democrat who represents part of Louisville, said on Twitter that “as we hold our community tighter,” there must also be “outrage and anger.”
“We live in a war zone, and we shouldn’t have to,” she said.
Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said on Twitter that he and his wife, former Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, were “devastated” by the shooting. “We send our prayers to the victims, their families, and the city of Louisville as we await more information,” he said.
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and the FBI said they were assisting with the response.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Press conferences; Shootings; National banks; Law enforcement; Criminal investigations; Firearm laws & regulations; Firearms

Business indexing term: Subject: National banks

Location: New York; United States--US; Kentucky

People: Beshear, Andy

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Police Department-Louisville KY; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Police Department (Louisville, Ky); University Of Louisville; Kentucky; Politics And Government; Bureau Of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms And Explosives; Beshear, Andrew G (1977 ); News And News Media; Hospitals; Labor And Jobs; Louisville (Ky); Colleges And Universities; Banking And Financial Institutions; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; United States; Minor Leagues; Chao, Elaine L; Police; Social Media; Twitter; Facebook Inc; Democratic Party; Deaths (Fatalities); Elections, Governors; Mcconnell, Mitch; Elections, Attorneys General

Title: Gunman Kills 4 Co-Workers at Louisville Bank on Livestream, Police Say

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 10, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-10T23:27:25Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2798846493

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gunman-kills-4-co-workers-at-louisville-bank-on/docview/2798846493/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New York Considers Outlawing Discrimination Based on Weight: [National Desk]

Author: Fitzsimmons, Emma G

Publication info: Fitzsimmons, Emma G. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-considers-outlawing-discrimination-based/docview/2798020580/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The City Council is expected to approve a bill this spring that would ban weight discrimination in hiring and housing.
Victoria Abraham has attracted a huge online following as a self-described fat activist who preaches body positivity and calls out bias. But after graduating from New York University last year with a degree in public policy, she cannot avoid wondering if her job search will be hampered by her size.
Ms. Abraham makes no secret of her weight, including her body in the photo on her LinkedIn profile so prospective employers know whom they are considering hiring.
"There is a perception that you're lazy or unable to do the work," she said. "People don't even realize that they have that bias."
Ms. Abraham was among a group of people who testified recently on behalf of a bill that would prohibit discrimination in New York City based on a person's weight or height in employment, housing and access to public accommodations. Although the bill has not been scheduled for a vote, it has the support of a majority of the City Council, with 34 co-sponsors out of 51 members, and could be approved as soon as May.
Mayor Eric Adams, a Democrat who published a book in 2020 about losing 35 pounds on a plant-based diet, said on Wednesday that he was supportive of the bill and was still reviewing the details.
"We should never treat people differently because of their weight," Mr. Adams said at a news conference at City Hall.
The effort is part of a growing national campaign to address weight discrimination, with lawmakers in New Jersey and Massachusetts considering similar measures banning the practice. Michigan and Washington State already prohibit it, as do some cities, like Madison, Wis., and Washington, D.C.
The momentum to add weight to the list of protected groups, which now includes race, gender, religion and disability, comes as the body acceptance movement continues to gain popularity. Podcasts like "Maintenance Phase" and social media creators have spread awareness that not all overweight people are unhealthy, and that health metrics like the body mass index are flawed.
Many Americans gained weight during the height of the pandemic as lockdowns kept people stuck at home. Obesity rates have risen in the United States over the last two decades, and more than 40 percent of American adults are considered obese.
The sponsor of New York City's bill, Shaun Abreu, a councilman from northern Manhattan, said that he gained 40 pounds earlier in the pandemic and noticed a change in how people treated him. Someone touched his stomach, for example, and told him he was getting too big.
But it was Mr. Abreu's background as a lawyer and his familiarity with labor law that prompted him to introduce the weight discrimination bill, working with the National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance, a nonprofit advocacy group founded in 1969.
"What you look like should not impact your ability to get a job," Mr. Abreu said in an interview. "We should embrace body positivity and inclusion. It's so important for people to feel comfortable."
But some Republicans and business leaders have concerns about the legislation. Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business advocacy group, said that the City Council should provide documentation to prove that weight discrimination was a "significant problem" in the city.
"This is another mandate where enforcement will be primarily through litigation, which imposes a burden on employers, regulators and the courts," she said.
Joseph Borelli, the City Council's minority leader and a Republican, said he worried the bill would "empower people to sue anyone and everything." Mr. Borelli has posted on social media about his quest to lose weight.
"I'm overweight, but I'm not a victim," he said. "No one should feel bad for me except for my struggling shirt buttons."
Some of the bill's supporters have questioned whether the mayor's own experience of losing weight and his evangelism over his mostly vegan diet and workout routine might make him less likely to understand their concerns.
On Wednesday, Mr. Adams downplayed any discrimination he might have faced when he was overweight.
"Even when I was heavier, I was still a good-looking guy," he said, laughing.
The Council speaker, Adrienne Adams, has not said whether she supports the bill or when her office might schedule a vote on it. Her spokesman, Mandela Jones, said in a statement that "no one should be denied opportunities for work, housing or other essentials because of their physical attributes."
State lawmakers in New York are also considering a weight discrimination law, with support from Brad Hoylman-Sigal, a state senator who chairs the judiciary committee, and from the powerful Retail, Wholesale & Department Store Union.
Mr. Hoylman-Sigal, who said he was hopeful that the Legislature would pass the state law this year, said that he became interested in the issue after seeing how his 12-year-old daughter was being affected by discussions about beauty on TikTok.
"This was really in response to some personal observations and how social media is shaping her viewpoint around body image," he said.
Mr. Hoylman-Sigal said he was also worried about employers who ask job candidates for photographs and whether that could lead to discrimination -- a practice that Mr. Adams received criticism over last year.
The City Council bill also prohibits discrimination based on height, and a separate bill would ban discrimination against people with tattoos. It creates an exemption for employers who have a "bona fide occupational" reason to consider weight or height, and situations in which there is a public health and safety concern. Some jobs like police officers and fire fighters have physical requirements such as a timed run, climbing over a six-foot barrier or dragging a fire hose.
Under the bill, complaints about weight discrimination would be investigated by the city's Commission on Human Rights, which already handles complaints over race, gender and pregnancy.
The commission has investigated at least two cases regarding weight when another issue like pregnancy or race was involved, city officials said, including one in which a supervisor made derogatory comments about a worker's weight and race. In that case, the employer paid emotional distress damages and civil penalties.
Some workers have unsuccessfully filed lawsuits over weight discrimination, including a bus driver in New Jersey who lost his job after failing a medical exam and a New York City firefighter who was told to lose 71 pounds in 30 days. Another case involved a New Jersey casino monitoring the weight of the "Borgata Babes" cocktail waitresses.
Jennifer Shinall, a law professor at Vanderbilt University who studies weight discrimination, said that litigation shows that bias can be explicit or implicit.
Colleagues might openly tease someone about their weight or say something under the guise of concern -- comments that are often legal under federal law, she said.
"A lot of this discrimination is also implied and not necessarily spoken, and it appears to happen at the point of hiring," she said. "We know that weight discrimination is the worst for customer-facing occupations -- things like sales or anything that involves contact with the public."
At the City Council hearing for the bill in February, New Yorkers spoke about hardships they have faced because of their weight. Ms. Abraham testified that subway turnstiles were too narrow for her to pass through easily and that the desks at New York University were too small for her, preventing her from taking notes during class. Now she is worried about her job search too.
"I graduated cum laude and I have all of the qualifications, but I'm terrified about trying to get a job right now," Ms. Abraham said in an interview.
Tracy Cox, a soprano at the Metropolitan Opera, said at the hearing that she had faced discrimination and body shaming in her career as a performer where "a fat singer is the rare and remarkable exception."
"Let me do my job," she said, "without being casually encouraged to develop an eating disorder or have bariatric surgery, which has happened to me countless times in the workplace."
Photograph Victoria Abraham testified at a City Council hearing to support an anti-discrimination bill.; Councilman Shaun Abreu introduced the bill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRITTAINY NEWMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Gastrointestinal surgery; Hiring; Councils; Opera; Pandemics; Social networks; Obesity; Overweight; Employers; Job hunting; Cities; Litigation

Business indexing term: Subject: Hiring Social networks Employers Job hunting

Location: New York; United States--US; New Jersey; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: New York University; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/06/nyregion/weight-discrimination-law-nyc.html

Title: New York Considers Outlawing Discrimination Based on Weight:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 9, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2798020580

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-considers-outlawing-discrimination-based/docview/2798020580/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How TV News Anchors Workers: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Depillis, Lydia

Publication info: Depillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-tv-news-anchors-workers/docview/2794448374/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Job-switching barriers are routine at TV stations, even for workers not on the air. A proposed federal rule would curb the practice across all fields.
Of all the professions, perhaps none is more commonly bound by contracts that define where else an employee can go work than local television news.
The restrictions, known as noncompete clauses, have been a condition of the job for reporters, anchors, sportscasters and meteorologists for decades. More recently, they've spread to off-air roles like producers and editors -- positions that often pay just barely above the poverty line -- and they keep employees from moving to other stations in the same market for up to a year after their contract ends.
For that reason, there's probably no industry that could change as much as a result of the Federal Trade Commission's effort to severely limit noncompete clauses -- if the proposed rule is not derailed before being finalized. Business trade associations are lobbying fiercely against it.
"The vast majority of people who work in this country, if they find themselves in a bad situation and they don't like it, they have options to leave, and they don't have to move," said Rick Carr, an agent who represents broadcast workers. "And TV doesn't allow that."
The pending rule would most likely help people like Leah Rivard, who produces the 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. newscasts at WKBT in La Crosse, Wis.
She was hired in the summer of 2021, at an hourly rate of $ 15. A year later, the station brought on a cohort of recent journalism school graduates as part of a new training program that promised to pay off a chunk of their student loans. Several longer-tenured producers left, and Ms. Rivard wanted to leave, too, since she ended up having to teach a bunch of inexperienced young people how to write scripts and edit video.
When Ms. Rivard spoke to her managers, she was told that if she left for another station anywhere in the country before her contract expired this year, they could sue her. So she has continued to work for the station, an experience she's called "absolute hell." But even after her contract ends in June, a noncompete clause will prevent her from working for any of the other stations in La Crosse or Eau Claire, an hour and a half north, for a year after that.
Ms. Rivard plans to look for work in Milwaukee, and since she doesn't have much to tie her down in La Crosse, she's eager to leave. But for plenty of older employees with children in school and mortgages to pay, a noncompete means there's no easy way out.
"If your station is so toxic that it's affecting you, and you want to leave, you have to leave news altogether and find a public relations job," Ms. Rivard said. "It leaves no accountability for the company to be a good company for employees."
Chris Palmer, WKBT's general manager, said he believed noncompetes benefited both employers and employees.
"We invest a lot of time and money training and publicly marketing an individual journalist, which, in turn, increases the value of that journalist in the local market," he said. "These employees also have access to proprietary local research and strategic investments. It would be unfair for that to benefit a direct competitor without protection."
Noncompete clauses have become standard in many workplaces and cover about 18 percent of the U.S. labor force, according to research by economists at the University of Maryland and the University of Michigan.
In broadcasting, though, noncompetes are ubiquitous. According to a survey of TV news directors by Bob Papper, an adjunct professor at the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University, about 90 percent of news anchors, 78 percent of reporters and 87 percent of weathercasters were bound by noncompetes in 2022. Those numbers have been fairly stable for decades.
In recent years, however, noncompetes have grown to cover a far wider swath of the newsroom. About half of digital writers and content managers, 71 percent of producers and 86 percent of multimedia journalists have clauses restricting their ability to work elsewhere in the market after their contracts end. That's up significantly from when Mr. Papper started tracking contract provisions in depth two decades ago.
That growth has occurred despite a campaign by the one of the biggest labor unions in television, SAG-AFTRA, to limit noncompetes for broadcast employees. Since the mid-90s, the group has been successful in a handful of states -- like Massachusetts and Illinois -- while failing in others, like Michigan and Pennsylvania. Some states, most notably California, decline to enforce most noncompetes, regardless of the industry.
In states that circumscribe noncompetes, where SAG-AFTRA also tends to have the most members, the union says workers enjoy higher wages and more freedom to escape bad workplace conditions -- particularly important for women, in a field notorious for sexual harassment.
"We have seen more flexibility within our membership, and also nonunion shops, for employees who decide at the end of their contract that they'd like to move on," said Mary Cavallaro, the chief broadcast officer for SAG-AFTRA.
But the National Association of Broadcasters -- which signed on to a multiindustry letter opposing the federal government's proposed ban -- says that because stations promote their reporters and anchors to develop their local brand recognition, they should be able to prevent them from "crossing the street," in industry parlance.
"While there are certainly some cases where noncompete clauses are overly restrictive, we believe a categorical ban goes too far and that broadcasting presents a unique case for the use of reasonable noncompete clauses for on-air talent," said Alex Siciliano, a spokesman for the association.
Mr. Siciliano did not respond to a further inquiry about why noncompetes were needed for employees not appearing on air.
To many broadcasting veterans, the main reason that stations impose noncompetes is clear: There's a recruiting crunch in broadcast news, particularly for producers. It's a difficult job, with either very early or very late hours and tight deadlines. It requires a college degree and sometimes a master's degree in journalism, and pay is no longer competitive for people with media skills. The median salary for a producer is $ 38,000, according to Mr. Papper's survey.
"There is a belief on the part of non-news executives that working in TV news is still glamorous enough that people are lining up to go into the business," Mr. Papper said. "But what I'm hearing is that they're not lining up anymore. And the fact is that the skill set you learn in college that allows you to start in TV news also allows you entry into a whole lot of other, better-paying jobs."
The apparent disconnect between television news management and the pool of available talent has meant that job postings stay open longer. When an offer is extended, it comes with an almost inescapable time commitment.
Beth Johnson, a television talent agent, says she had to move from exclusively representing clients to more training and consulting, since newsroom employees were no longer able to move around enough to negotiate significant pay raises. The rapid consolidation in local news, with major companies like Nexstar and Sinclair buying out smaller ownership groups, has further diminished the employees' options.
"It's really hard for these journalists to make a good living, and it's getting harder to leverage to make sure they can," Ms. Johnson said. "So we wanted to pivot to say to journalists, 'It doesn't make sense for you to pay me for three years, because you're not going to make enough to keep me for three years, but you're really going to need help with that promotion for a year."'
Although reporters and anchors are paid slightly better than producers, they are routinely forced to move if they need to earn more. If they can't leave town, they often leave the business. The docket for the Federal Trade Commission's proposed noncompete ban is peppered with examples of reporters and producers whose careers had been constrained or cut short by the inability to leave their employer for similar work nearby.
Take Amy DuPont, one of Ms. Rivard's former colleagues at WKBT. After working as an anchor in San Diego and Milwaukee, she moved with her husband to La Crosse, her hometown, after he retired from the military. When Ms. DuPont felt she had reached a breaking point at the station, she quit for a job in public relations. Other stations in town asked if she was interested in switching over, but she didn't even try.
"Even if I wanted to, I'm not legally able to go there," said Ms. DuPont, who now represents Kwik Trip, the Midwestern gas station chain. "For someone like me, who's married and 43 years old with two children, and I own my home, it prevents me from doing my career, something I've spent 22 years doing."
Ultimately, when journalists have to switch cities to earn enough to keep up with the cost of living, local residents lose a trusted source of reporting.
David Jones worked in broadcast news for 23 years, mostly in management roles that required him to recruit and hire. He quit in 2021 to join a public relations firm, and posted a long meditation on LinkedIn about how inhospitable the industry had grown for employees.
Not mentioned, but under the surface, were noncompetes, which hurt the public as well as the people bound by them, he said in an interview.
"You really want someone with market knowledge," Mr. Jones said, "which isn't to say that someone can't come in and learn the market quickly, but there's so much benefit to the community when you're able to do that. With noncompetes, you almost never get to do that."
Ubiquitous noncompete clauses block mobility in broadcast news markets, even for those in off-air roles. That could change under a new F.T.C. initiative.
Photograph Leah Rivard's noncompete clause at WKBT means that, after her contract ends, she must wait a year before she can work for another station in the same market. (B1); Amy DuPont, a former news anchor, said a noncompete clause had forced her to give up a career of 22 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Journalism; Bans; Journalists; Public relations; Broadcasting industry; Television news; Employees; Reporters

Business indexing term: Subject: Public relations Broadcasting industry Employees

Location: United States--US; La Crosse Wisconsin

Company / organization: Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150; Name: SAG-AFTRA; NAICS: 813930

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/03/business/economy/noncompete-clauses-broadcast-news.html

Title: How TV News Anchors Workers:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2794448374

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-tv-news-anchors-workers/docview/2794448374/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Noncompete Clauses Get Tighter, and TV Newsrooms Feel the Grip

Author: DePillis, Lydia

Publication info: DePillis, Lydia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/noncompete-clauses-get-tighter-tv-newsrooms-feel/docview/2794368196/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Of all the professions, perhaps none is more commonly bound by contracts that define where else an employee can go work than local television news.
The restrictions, known as noncompete clauses, have been a condition of the job for reporters, anchors, sportscasters and meteorologists for decades. More recently, they’ve spread to off-air roles like producers and editors — positions that often pay just barely above the poverty line — and they keep employees from moving to other stations in the same market for up to a year after their contract ends.
For that reason, there’s probably no industry that could change as much as a result of the Federal Trade Commission’s effort to severely limit noncompete clauses — if the proposed rule is not derailed before being finalized. Business trade associations are lobbying fiercely against it.
“The vast majority of people who work in this country, if they find themselves in a bad situation and they don’t like it, they have options to leave, and they don’t have to move,” said Rick Carr, an agent who represents broadcast workers. “And TV doesn’t allow that.”
The pending rule would most likely help people like Leah Rivard, who produces the 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. newscasts at WKBT in La Crosse, Wisconsin.
She was hired in the summer of 2021, at an hourly rate of $15. A year later, the station brought on a cohort of recent journalism school graduates as part of a new training program that promised to pay off a chunk of their student loans. Several longer-tenured producers left, and Rivard wanted to leave, too, since she ended up having to teach a bunch of inexperienced young people how to write scripts and edit video.
When Rivard spoke to her managers, she was told that if she left for another station anywhere in the country before her contract expired this year, they could sue her. So she has continued to work for the station, an experience she’s called “absolute hell.” But even after her contract ends in June, a noncompete clause will prevent her from working for any of the other stations in La Crosse or Eau Claire, an hour and a half north, for a year after that.
Rivard plans to look for work in Milwaukee, and since she doesn’t have much to tie her down in La Crosse, she’s eager to leave. But for plenty of older employees with children in school and mortgages to pay, a noncompete means there’s no easy way out.
“If your station is so toxic that it’s affecting you, and you want to leave, you have to leave news altogether and find a public relations job,” Rivard said. “It leaves no accountability for the company to be a good company for employees.”
Chris Palmer, WKBT’s general manager, said he believed noncompetes benefited both employers and employees.
“We invest a lot of time and money training and publicly marketing an individual journalist, which, in turn, increases the value of that journalist in the local market,” he said. “These employees also have access to proprietary local research and strategic investments. It would be unfair for that to benefit a direct competitor without protection.”
Noncompete clauses have become standard in many workplaces and cover about 18% of the U.S. labor force, according to research by economists at the University of Maryland and the University of Michigan.
In broadcasting, though, noncompetes are ubiquitous. According to a survey of TV news directors by Bob Papper, an adjunct professor at the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University, about 90% of news anchors, 78% of reporters and 87% of weathercasters were bound by noncompetes in 2022. Those numbers have been fairly stable for decades.
In recent years, however, noncompetes have grown to cover a far wider swath of the newsroom. About half of digital writers and content managers, 71% of producers and 86% of multimedia journalists have clauses restricting their ability to work elsewhere in the market after their contracts end. That’s up significantly from when Papper started tracking contract provisions in depth two decades ago.
That growth has occurred despite a campaign by the one of the biggest labor unions in television, SAG-AFTRA, to limit noncompetes for broadcast employees. Since the mid-’90s, the group has been successful in a handful of states — including Massachusetts and Illinois — while failing in others, such as Michigan and Pennsylvania. Some states, most notably California, decline to enforce most noncompetes, regardless of the industry.
In states that circumscribe noncompetes, where SAG-AFTRA also tends to have the most members, the union says workers enjoy higher wages and more freedom to escape bad workplace conditions — particularly important for women, in a field notorious for sexual harassment.
“We have seen more flexibility within our membership, and also nonunion shops, for employees who decide at the end of their contract that they’d like to move on,” said Mary Cavallaro, the chief broadcast officer for SAG-AFTRA.
But the National Association of Broadcasters — which signed on to a multi-industry letter opposing the federal government’s proposed ban — says that because stations promote their reporters and anchors to develop their local brand recognition, they should be able to prevent them from “crossing the street,” in industry parlance.
“While there are certainly some cases where noncompete clauses are overly restrictive, we believe a categorical ban goes too far and that broadcasting presents a unique case for the use of reasonable noncompete clauses for on-air talent,” said Alex Siciliano, a spokesperson for the association.
Siciliano did not respond to a further inquiry about why noncompetes were needed for employees not appearing on air.
To many broadcasting veterans, the main reason that stations impose noncompetes is clear: There’s a recruiting crunch in broadcast news, particularly for producers. It’s a difficult job, with either very early or very late hours and tight deadlines. It requires a college degree and sometimes a master’s degree in journalism, and pay is no longer competitive for people with media skills. The median salary for a producer is $38,000, according to Papper’s survey.
“There is a belief on the part of non-news executives that working in TV news is still glamorous enough that people are lining up to go into the business,” Papper said. “But what I’m hearing is that they’re not lining up anymore. And the fact is that the skill set you learn in college that allows you to start in TV news also allows you entry into a whole lot of other, better-paying jobs.”
The apparent disconnect between television news management and the pool of available talent has meant that job postings stay open longer. When an offer is extended, it comes with an almost inescapable time commitment.
Beth Johnson, a television talent agent, says she had to move from exclusively representing clients to more training and consulting, since newsroom employees were no longer able to move around enough to negotiate significant pay raises. The rapid consolidation in local news, with major companies such as Nexstar and Sinclair buying out smaller ownership groups, has further diminished the employees’ options.
“It’s really hard for these journalists to make a good living, and it’s getting harder to leverage to make sure they can,” Johnson said. “So we wanted to pivot to say to journalists, ‘It doesn’t make sense for you to pay me for three years, because you’re not going to make enough to keep me for three years, but you’re really going to need help with that promotion for a year.’”
Although reporters and anchors are paid slightly better than producers, they are routinely forced to move if they need to earn more. If they can’t leave town, they often leave the business. The docket for the FTC’s proposed noncompete ban is peppered with examples of reporters and producers whose careers had been constrained or cut short by the inability to leave their employer for similar work nearby.
Take Amy DuPont, one of Rivard’s former colleagues at WKBT. After working as an anchor in San Diego and Milwaukee, she moved with her husband to La Crosse, her hometown, after he retired from the military. When DuPont felt she had reached a breaking point at the station, she quit for a job in public relations. Other stations in town asked if she was interested in switching over, but she didn’t even try.
“Even if I wanted to, I’m not legally able to go there,” said DuPont, who now represents Kwik Trip, the Midwestern gas station chain. “For someone like me, who’s married and 43 years old with two children, and I own my home, it prevents me from doing my career, something I’ve spent 22 years doing.”
Ultimately, when journalists have to switch cities to earn enough to keep up with the cost of living, local residents lose a trusted source of reporting.
David Jones worked in broadcast news for 23 years, mostly in management roles that required him to recruit and hire. He quit in 2021 to join a public relations firm, and posted a long meditation on LinkedIn about how inhospitable the industry had grown for employees.
Not mentioned, but under the surface, were noncompetes, which hurt the public as well as the people bound by them, he said in an interview.
“You really want someone with market knowledge,” Jones said, “which isn’t to say that someone can’t come in and learn the market quickly, but there’s so much benefit to the community when you’re able to do that. With noncompetes, you almost never get to do that.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Journalism; Bans; Journalists; Public relations; Broadcasting industry; Television news; Employees; Reporters

Business indexing term: Subject: Public relations Broadcasting industry Employees

Location: United States--US; La Crosse Wisconsin

Company / organization: Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150; Name: SAG-AFTRA; NAICS: 813930

Identifier / keyword: Journalism Schools; United States; Linkedin Corporation; Careers And Professions; San Diego (Calif); California; Hiring And Promotion; Public Relations And Publicity; Discrimination; News And News Media; Education (K 12); Stocks And Bonds; Television; National Assn Of Broadcasters; Massachusetts; Federal Trade Commission; Illinois; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Wages And Salaries; Executives And Management (Theory); Pennsylvania; Michigan; Organized Labor; Wisconsin; Syracuse University; Workplace Environment; States (Us); Employee Fringe Benefits; Executive Compensation; News Sources, Confidential Status Of; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; University Of Maryland; La Crosse (Wis); Government Contracts And Procurement; Sag Aftra; Economics (Theory And Philosophy); Draft And Recruitment (Military); Business; Colleges And Universities; Milwaukee (Wis); Maryland; University Of Michigan

Title: Noncompete Clauses Get Tighter, and TV Newsrooms Feel the Grip

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-03T22:57:21Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2794368196

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/noncompete-clauses-get-tighter-tv-newsrooms-feel/docview/2794368196/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hidden Technology Put the Wrong Person in Jail: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hill, Kashmir; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Hill, Kashmir; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hidden-technology-put-wrong-person-jail/docview/2793588406/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Because of a bad facial recognition match and other hidden technology, Randal Reid spent nearly a week in jail, falsely accused of stealing purses in a state he said he had never even visited.
On the Friday afternoon after Thanksgiving, Randal Quran Reid was driving his white Jeep to his mother's home outside Atlanta when he was pulled over on a busy highway. A police officer approached his vehicle and asked for his driver's license. Mr. Reid had left it at home, but he volunteered his name. After asking Mr. Reid if he had any weapons, the officer told him to step out of the Jeep and handcuffed him with the help of two other officers who had arrived.
"What did I do?" Mr. Reid asked. The officer said he had two theft warrants out of Baton Rouge and Jefferson Parish, a district on the outskirts of New Orleans. Mr. Reid was confused; he said he had never been to Louisiana.
Mr. Reid, a transportation analyst, was booked at the DeKalb County jail, to await extradition from Georgia to Louisiana. It took days to find out exactly what he was accused of: using stolen credit cards to buy designer purses.
"I'm locked up for something I have no clue about," Mr. Reid, 29, said.
His parents made phone calls, hired lawyers and spent thousands of dollars to figure out why the police thought he was responsible for the crime, eventually discovering it was because Mr. Reid bore a resemblance to a suspect who had been recorded by a surveillance camera. The case eventually fell apart and the warrants were recalled, but only after Mr. Reid spent six days in jail and missed a week of work.
Mr. Reid's wrongful arrest appears to be the result of a cascade of technologies -- beginning with a bad facial recognition match -- that are intended to make policing more effective and efficient but can also make it far too easy to apprehend the wrong person for a crime. None of the technologies are mentioned in official documents, and Mr. Reid was not told exactly why he had been arrested, a typical but troubling practice, according to legal experts and public defenders.
"In a democratic society, we should know what tools are being used to police us," said Jennifer Granick, a lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union.
A Contract With Clearview AI
In a panic, Mr. Reid's family immediately retained an Atlanta lawyer from the Cochran Firm. He could not get Mr. Reid out of jail, and he struggled to gather more information. He suggested that the family members hire someone in Louisiana, so they cold-called law firms in Jefferson Parish and Baton Rouge until they found Thomas Calogero, a criminal defense lawyer. They retained him that Sunday.
Mr. Calogero found out that Mr. Reid was accused of the summer thefts of two Chanel purses and a brown Louis Vuitton bag, collectively worth almost $ 13,000, from Second Act, a consignment store on the outskirts of New Orleans. Mr. Calogero went to the store and talked to the owner, who showed him a still from a surveillance camera. He realized that one of the alleged fraudsters looked like Mr. Reid, but the man was heavier.
"The guy had big arms, and my client doesn't," Mr. Calogero said. A Jefferson Parish sheriff's officer insisted it was a "positive match," language that made Mr. Calogero believe that facial recognition technology had been used, and he spoke to the New Orleans news outlet NOLA.com about what he believed had happened.
A person with direct knowledge of the investigation confirmed to The New York Times that facial recognition technology had been used to identify Mr. Reid. Yet none of the documents used to arrest him disclosed that.
Andrew Bartholomew, the Jefferson Parish financial crimes detective who sought the warrant to arrest Mr. Reid, wrote in an affidavit only that he had been "advised by a credible source" that the "heavyset black male" was Mr. Reid. Reached by phone, Detective Bartholomew declined to comment.
"It's untenable to me as a matter of basic criminal procedure that people who are subject to arrest are not informed of what got them there," said Barry Friedman, a constitutional law professor at New York University.
The Sheriff's Office has a contract with one facial recognition vendor: Clearview AI, which it pays $ 25,000 a year. According to documents obtained by The Times in a public records request, the department first signed a contract with Clearview in 2019.
Clearview scraped billions of photos from the public web, including social media sites, to create a face-based search engine now used by law enforcement agencies. Mr. Reid has many public photos on the web linked to his name, including on LinkedIn and Facebook. The public information office for the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office did not respond to requests for comment about the use of Clearview AI.
The company's chief executive, Hoan Ton-That, said an arrest should not be based on a facial recognition search alone.
"Even if Clearview AI came up with the initial result, that is the beginning of the investigation by law enforcement to determine, based on other factors, whether the correct person has been identified," he said. "More than one million searches have been conducted using Clearview AI. One false arrest is one too many, and we have tremendous empathy for the person who was wrongfully accused."
Detective Bartholomew's identification of Mr. Reid led to a second warrant for his arrest in East Baton Rouge Parish, where, according to a police report, the man he resembled had used a stolen credit card to buy a $ 2,800 Chanel bag at another consignment store.
The Baton Rouge Police Department "trusted the information" from the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office, a department spokesman, Sgt. L'Jean McKneely, said. "What methods they used, we do not know," he added.
Law enforcement officers generally say they do not need to mention the use of facial recognition technology because it is only a lead in a case and not the sole reason for someone's arrest, protecting it from exposure as if it were a confidential informant. But according to Clare Garvie, an expert on the police use of facial recognition, there are four other publicly known cases of wrongful arrests that appear to have involved little investigation beyond a face match, all involving Black men. She has come across a handful of other examples across the country, she said, in her work with the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers.
For Rashad Robinson, the president of Color of Change, a racial justice advocacy group, the technology exacerbates the problems of what he called "racist policing."
"If facial recognition was misclassifying white people, white men or white women, it would not be on the shelf," he said. "Some of us and some of our communities are expendable."
'Rubber-Stamping Warrants'
To get a warrant to arrest someone, an officer must convince a judge there is probable cause -- meaning, essentially, there is a good reason to do so -- and get the judge's signature. In the past, that meant an officer had to go to court, or even meet a judge at a diner in the middle of the night if the case was urgent. That is a moment when questions are asked about the strength of the evidence, legal experts say.
But the friction of getting a warrant has been eased by technology. The Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office uses an "eWarrant" service, CloudGavel, for which it paid $ 39,800 last year. It's an app that allows officers to request digital signatures from judges. "Law enforcement officers can now get an arrest warrant approved in minutes," the company's website states.
Many civil liberties advocates actually favor electronic warrants; they allow judges to more easily review decisions made by the police and eliminate a complaint from officers that it's too hard to get a warrant. But advocates said it would be worrisome if judges were simply clicking a button without asking questions or providing sufficient scrutiny.
"There are real questions about whether it increases the incidence of judges rubber-stamping warrants," said Nathan Freed Wessler, a deputy director with the A.C.L.U.'s Speech, Privacy and Technology Project.
A criminal court judge signed off on Mr. Reid's arrest warrant at 4:28 p.m. on July 18. CloudGavel "accommodates" judicial scrutiny, said Casey Roussel, the president and chief operating officer of CloudGavel's parent company, FusionStak, in an email. He said judges could "connect with the officer via phone or video to discuss any concerns the judge may have about the warrant."
In Mr. Reid's case, it is unclear if the detective spoke with the judge or explained the nature of the "credible source." The judge declined to comment.
A 'Random Query'
"I was driving the normal speed, and I wasn't doing anything crazy," Mr. Reid said of the day of his arrest.
Body camera footage obtained by The Times reveals that four police vehicles were involved in pulling him over. The two warrants for his arrest asked for "full extradition." To the law enforcement officers in Georgia, Mr. Reid would have appeared to be a fugitive from Louisiana justice.
Why exactly Mr. Reid and his white Jeep attracted the DeKalb County police's attention that day is unclear. The arresting officer wrote in an incident report that he had learned about Mr. Reid's warrants from a "random GCIC/NCIC query of the vehicle tag," referring to the National Crime Information Center, an F.B.I. repository of wanted persons and vehicles, and the Georgia Crime Information Center. It's possible the officer saw Mr. Reid driving by and, for some reason, decided to run his license plate.
But Molly Kleinman, the director of a technology policy research center at the University of Michigan, said many kinds of surveillance technologies on the highway could have alerted the officer to Mr. Reid's presence on the "hot list," including toll pass readers and automated license plate readers, which Atlanta has in the hundreds on roads and police vehicles. (A spokesman for the DeKalb County police said a license plate reader was not used.)
"There's a lot of secrecy about all of these surveillance technologies and the ways that they're used," Ms. Kleinman said. "This case is a perfect example that even when the tool works as intended, if the underlying data is flawed it can still harm innocent people."
Not Involved
Mr. Reid sat in DeKalb County jail for nearly a week. He could not be released on bond because he was supposed to be held until Louisiana officers came to pick him up for prosecution in their state. His Jeep was towed and impounded.
"Imagine you're living your life and somewhere far away says you committed a crime," Mr. Reid said. "And you know you've never been there."
His lawyer, Mr. Calogero, gathered photos and videos of Mr. Reid from his family, hoping to more clearly show the Louisiana police what Mr. Reid looks like, and sent them to the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office on Wednesday, Nov. 30, five days after the arrest. An hour later, Mr. Calogero said, an officer called to inform him that the police were withdrawing the warrant because they had noticed a mole on Mr. Reid's face that the alleged purse thief did not have.
Mr. Reid's detainment was "unfortunate by all means," Sheriff Joseph P. Lopinto III of Jefferson Parish said. "As soon as we realized it wasn't him, we moved mountains in order to get him out of jail."
A Jefferson Parish judge recalled the warrant on Wednesday afternoon. "After further investigation, it was learned Randal Reid was not involved in the crimes committed," the recall said. Mr. Reid was released late Thursday night, almost a full week after being pulled over. He is considering filing a wrongful-arrest lawsuit.
"Thousands of dollars for something I didn't do," he said.
Mr. Robinson, the Color of Change president, said most people in the United States did not have thousands of dollars to clear their names. These people will have "names and stories we will never know," he said. "They will languish in jails and prisons."
Alain Delaquérière and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Alain Delaquérière and Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Top, Randal Quran Reid, who was mistakenly jailed. Right, Second Act, a consignment store where stolen credit cards were used to buy nearly $ 13,000 in merchandise. Below, the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office contract with Clearview AI. Below right, from top: the affidavit from Detective Andrew Bartholomew; literature from CloudGavel, an electronic warrant service; and a warrant for Mr. Reid's arrest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE CRAINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SARA ESSEX BRADLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU5.

Subject: Cameras; Law enforcement; Social networks; Families & family life; Prisons; Criminal investigations; Surveillance; Facial recognition technology; Arrest warrants; Digital signatures; Criminal procedure; Civil liberties

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; Jefferson Parish Louisiana; Louisiana; Baton Rouge Louisiana; Atlanta Georgia

Company / organization: Name: Clearview AI Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/31/technology/facial-recognition-false-arrests.html

Title: Hidden Technology Put the Wrong Person in Jail:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 2, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793588406

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hidden-technology-put-wrong-person-jail/docview/2793588406/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Navigating Blue Check Apocalypse On Twitter: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chen, Brian X; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Chen, Brian X; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/navigating-blue-check-apocalypse-on-twitter/docview/2793301357/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk, Twitter's owner, is changing the platform's longstanding practice of verifying accounts. That has implications for a range of users.
The blue check mark on Twitter has long conferred a special status. Only certain accounts -- typically those of public figures whose identities were confirmed -- have been bestowed the symbol.
Now that is changing.
Starting on Saturday, many Twitter accounts will lose the check mark under modifications being made by Elon Musk, the social media company's owner. Individual users must buy a subscription to Twitter's Blue service, which costs $ 8 a month, to obtain the badge. Businesses that are currently unverified will have to pay $ 1,000 a month if they want a gold check mark verifying their account.
The move, which will help Twitter generate revenue by making certain features exclusive to subscribers, has implications for a range of users on the platform. Here's what to know.
What does the change mean for Twitter users?
For those of you who primarily use Twitter to follow celebrities and news sites, this policy change will affect what you see and read on the service.
You may see fewer tweets from accounts you care about in your timeline, for instance, because individuals who choose not to pay for Twitter Blue will become less visible on the site.
It may become harder for most users to discern real people from phony accounts. If check marks are removed from the accounts of celebrities who are unwilling to pay for Blue, for example, it could become difficult to distinguish their accounts from impersonators.
Mr. Musk has said only posts from paid accounts with blue checks will be visible in Twitter's "For You" tab, the default timeline of tweets that the platform shows you based on your interests. The only exception, he later said, will be posts from nonverified accounts that you already follow, which will continue showing up in your timeline.
All of this means it is likely to become tougher to discover posts from accounts without the blue check marks. For example, if you follow lots of news about sports and a nonverified account tweets some sports-related news, you won't see it in your timeline unless you already follow that account. In the past, you may have found that content purely because it went viral.
One caveat to these likely changes is that Mr. Musk is not known for always following through on his public intentions. So parts of the check-mark policy could change as Twitter rolls it out.
Will people start paying for the check marks?
That all depends on whether the account holder derives enough value from having a blue check mark to justify paying for it.
Celebrities and institutions might choose not to pay because they already have large numbers of followers who will continue to see their posts.
The New York Times, which has nearly 55 million followers on Twitter, said on Thursday that it would not pay for the verified badge for its institutional accounts, including @nytimes. The Times also told its journalists that it would not reimburse them for a Twitter Blue subscription, except in rare cases when it was necessary for reporting.
But other types of Twitter users may choose to pay for the check marks. Those include some small businesses that use Twitter to market their services and want their content to reach broader audiences. In this scenario, paying for verification will essentially be an advertising expense.
Twitter is set to make some exceptions regarding which companies get to retain their check marks without paying. In an internal document, the company said it would let the 10,000 most-followed organizations, and the top 500 advertisers, that have already been verified keep their status.
What's going to happen to Twitter?
Among social media companies such as Meta and Snap, Twitter is the smallest social network, and the company continues to shrink in size and relevance.
Mr. Musk has shed much of Twitter's staff, leaving the company with fewer than 2,000 employees, down from 7,500 when he took over in October. The site still has problems with bots posting spam and impostor accounts impersonating public figures. Security issues, glitches and bugs are piling up. And some influencers and journalists are migrating to other platforms, including Mastodon, LinkedIn and Instagram.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Celebrities; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

People: Musk, Elon

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/31/technology/personaltech/twitter-blue-check-musk.html

Title: Navigating Blue Check Apocalypse On Twitter:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 1, 2023

column: Tech Fix

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793301357

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/navigating-blue-check-apocalypse-on-twitter/docview/2793301357/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

After Shooting, Nashville Grieves and Ponders Its Divisions: [National Desk]

Author: Fausset, Richard

Publication info: Fausset, Richard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-shooting-nashville-grieves-ponders/docview/2793301290/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For decades, Nashville has prospered while finding common ground between urban and rural, left and right, state and city. In a partisan era, that's becoming much harder.
Shortly after the shooting rampage that left six people dead this week at a Nashville elementary school, State Senator Charlane Oliver, a first-term Democrat who represents a large chunk of the city, stood before reporters and wiped away her tears. Then she laced into her Republican colleagues for systematically loosening the state's gun laws when, she said, they should have been tightened.
"I believe in karma," she said. "And it's going to come a day that every person that did nothing, God help them."
Nashville, Tennessee's booming capital city, has typically brought a certain politesse to the management of its defining tensions -- between "rural and urban, polished elites and gritty common folk, a backward-looking past and a forward-looking gaze," as the historian Benjamin Houston put it.
In the mid-20th century, city leaders and civil rights activists negotiated a largely peaceful integration of the city's public spaces. More recently, locals have taken pride in the concept of "Nashville nice." And for decades, liberals and conservatives have mingled in a state of relative comity, making for a city that can feel "radically unsorted," as the critic Stephen Metcalf once wrote in describing the politics of Johnny Cash, one of Nashville's many musical heroes.
But even before the horror of this week's shooting, that sense of respectful accommodation was becoming ever harder to maintain. And some in Nashville say it may become exponentially more difficult after the massacre on Monday, which has touched on two polarizing topics: Tennessee's increasingly open gun policy, and the frictions over the rights of L.G.B.T.Q. people that have been exacerbated by new Republican-driven laws that target drag shows and ban puberty-delaying treatments for transgender children.
Hundreds of protesters, including teenagers, children in their plaid school uniforms and mothers with toddlers on their hips, flooded the State Capitol on Thursday, chanting "Vote them out" and "We don't want your thoughts and prayers" outside. Inside, a tense standoff developed as a few Democratic lawmakers interrupted the usual proceedings to join protesters in calling for tighter gun laws.
The shooter, identified by the police as Audrey E. Hale, was a 28-year-old former student of the Covenant School, the Christian elementary school that was attacked on Monday. The assailant used three weapons that the police said had been legally purchased, including a military-style semiautomatic rifle. Officers shot and killed the assailant minutes after they arrived at the school.
There has been confusion about the shooter's gender identity. Chief John Drake of the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department said the assailant identified as transgender, and officials used "she" and "her" to refer to the attacker. But in a social media post and a LinkedIn profile, the shooter appeared to identify as male in recent months.
In liberal circles, anger exploded into the open almost immediately. "Can I ask you, @GovBillLee why you passed permitless carry in 2021?" the Nashville-based country star Margo Price wrote on Twitter, referring to the law signed by Tennessee's Republican governor, Bill Lee, that allows most adults to carry handguns without a permit. "Our children are dying and being shot in school but you're more worried about drag queens than smart gun laws? You have blood on your hands."
The anger was just as intense from some Nashville conservatives, who sought to connect the attack to the assailant's gender identity. On Tuesday, Clay Travis, a Nashville-based radio host, wrote in a tweet: "This was a terror attack on religious people by a deranged lunatic trans person."
The language was harsher from Matt Walsh, a controversy courting right-wing podcaster with The Daily Wire, the conservative media company co-founded by the commentator Ben Shapiro. The outlet moved to Nashville from Los Angeles with the goal of building a national multimedia empire in the spiritual home of country music.
Mr. Walsh, who hosted a rally against medical treatment for transgender youth in downtown Nashville last October, devoted a podcast this week to talking about the shooting.
"This is not about guns, and these damned frauds know damned well that it is not about guns," Mr. Walsh said. He went on to describe "radical far-left trans activism" as a "hateful, violent movement."
"Nashville nice" it was not.
Lew Conner, 85, a Nashville lawyer and longtime donor to Republican candidates, said he had begun to feel lost, politically, in a city he has called home for decades.
These days, he said, Nashville liberals seemed to have become more liberal. But Mr. Conner laid the blame for much of the change in tone on his fellow Republicans, particularly those in the Statehouse, whom Mr. Conner accused of waging a spiteful war on a city that has long been run by moderate Democrats.
The state of the city is "very divisive," he said. "And you have this tragedy on top of it. I mean, it doesn't get any worse than that."
For years, Nashville has been run by a succession of mayors who have set a moderate tone for a Southern city that was eager to outrun its past: In general, the mayors have been socially progressive, pro-growth and pro-business. In recent years, though, Nashville's Metropolitan Council has become more progressive, reflecting a more liberal populace: From 2015 to 2022, the percentage of residents who considered themselves liberal increased to 30 percent from 24 percent, according to polling from Vanderbilt University.
John Geer, a political science professor at Vanderbilt, said the shift was probably related to the city's rapid growth in population, at almost double the U.S. average, and to the "big sort" phenomenon, in which Americans increasingly seek to live among people of similar political persuasions to their own.
As the city has moved leftward, though, Tennessee Republicans, ascendant in state politics, have taken a hard right turn. The high-profile clashes between the city and the legislature are to some extent conflicts between urban and rural values writ large, since many Republican legislators represent the conservative Tennessee countryside. In the state capital, where lawmakers bump up against music-industry types and the many newcomers flocking to Nashville's emerging tech industry, the tension can also feel intimate, and personal.
The partisan tension has spilled out beyond the Capitol building. In October, Vanderbilt University Medical Center announced that it was suspending what doctors call gender-affirming surgical procedures for patients under 18, after the medical center came under pressure from conservatives inside and outside the legislature.
"I think it's a struggle for the soul of Nashville," said Lisa Quigley, a political strategist who formerly served as chief of staff to former U.S. Representative Jim Cooper, a Democrat.
Before the shooting, guns and social issues were not the only reasons Nashville Democrats and Republicans were furious with one another.
Last year, Republicans redrew Tennessee's congressional map so that a Nashville district held by a Democrat for nearly 150 years was split up among three districts that extend far out into conservative suburbs and rural areas, and were drawn to heavily favor Republicans.
Later, the Metropolitan Council rejected an effort to host the 2024 Republican National Convention in Nashville, sparking a flurry of bills from the Republican legislature that were widely seen as retribution, including a new law that significantly shrinks the council.
There have also been smaller moments when connections across the political divide have frayed.
Anna Caudill, a Nashville special education advocate, worked from 2000 to 2008 at a school called Christ Presbyterian Academy, where she befriended one of the victims of Monday's shooting, Katherine Koonce, who worked at that school at the time. She also got to know the families of Governor Lee and Senator Marsha Blackburn, the hard-right Tennessee Republican, both of whom sent their children to Christ Presbyterian.
Ms. Caudill said she was on friendly terms with both families, in the spirit of the Nashville she first encountered when she moved to the city in the late 1990s.
But she said she was shaken when she saw Senator Blackburn participate in Mr. Walsh's rally in October against trans health care, particularly when a group of Proud Boys showed up as supporters. "I was so mad, I couldn't see straight," said Ms. Caudill, 50.
Some Nashville residents believe the old familiarity between left and right in the city will survive the tragedy.
"I think there are tensions that are greater than they have been," said Byron Trauger, a Nashville lawyer and civic leader. "But yesterday morning I was in a meeting with some very conservative people, and they view me as moderate to liberal. And there was certainly no tension there. I think some of the folks who have come in would love to see us divided, but the strength of the city has always been that we focus on making things better, as opposed to some ideological framework."
Of course, many people -- perhaps most -- are not processing this anguished moment through politics. They are doing it through their lived experiences and, particularly in the South, through faith.
Steven Curtis Chapman, a prominent Christian singer and songwriter who lives near Nashville, remembers Dr. Koonce, the head of Covenant, as a singular educator who was an invaluable healing presence for his family after his 5-year-old daughter, Maria, was killed in an accident.
For him, Monday's tragedy has a spiritual meaning more than a political one, at least in the immediate wake of the shooting.
"I believe Katherine is with my Maria and with Jesus and with these students, and that God is going to wipe all these tears away and make all these broken things whole again," he said.
Amid the flaring tensions in Nashville, there have also been myriad instances of people coming together to support the victims' families, and one another.
David Thomas, 52, the director of family counseling at Daystar Counseling Ministries, which counsels children and families, said he was touched this week when a local print shop rushed to produce materials he needed as he prepared to meet with families affected by the shooting.
"There's a kindness that emerges from this city," he said. "Though we've experienced a lot of growth, there's still some truth to this being a small town in a big city."
Reporting was contributed by Emily Cochrane, Eliza Fawcett and Ruth Graham.
Reporting was contributed by Emily Cochrane, Eliza Fawcett and Ruth Graham.
Photograph Protesters gathering at the Tennessee State Capitol to call for an end to gun violence after six people were killed in a school shooting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHENEY ORR/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Conservatism; Political activism; Councils; Legislatures; Transgender persons; Political parties; Families & family life; Rural areas; Shootings; Firearm laws & regulations; Gender identity

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee; Tennessee

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/31/us/nashville-shooting-guns-transgender-rights.html

Title: After Shooting, Nashville Grieves and Ponders Its Divisions:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 1, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793301290

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/after-shooting-nashville-grieves-ponders/docview/2793301290/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Is Amassing Power for Corporate Women a Worthy Goal in Itself?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-amassing-power-corporate-women-worthy-goal/docview/2792241958/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Turmoil at Chief, a women's networking organization, raises a long-simmering question: Is amassing power for corporate women a worthy goal in itself?
For admission to Chief, a women's leadership network, members pay up to $ 7,900. That gets them executive coaching, big-name speaker sessions, a Rolodex of female executives and, for an extra cost, access to five sleek clubhouses. Chief is essentially an "old boys' club" -- for the ladies. The venture capital-backed company has grown to over 20,000 members and over $ 1 billion in value since it started in 2019.
This month, in social media battles, some of its members have begun to ask: What does their club of high-powered women stand for? On LinkedIn, some Chief members have criticized the community's approach to racial diversity and its response to political issues like the overturn of Roe v. Wade, and some have announced plans to quit.
Chief's founders, Lindsay Kaplan and Carolyn Childers, say they've donated to abortion access groups, issued statements in the wake of racial violence and acted on their members' feedback, while remaining focused on the company's primary goal, which is women's corporate advancement. But in conversations with two dozen current and former Chief members, some said they wanted the network to be more socially and politically engaged.
"The price tag is really too high for people to not care deeply about how they're responding to these significant issues," said Nika White, 47, the president of a diversity, equity and inclusion consultancy who decided not to renew her Chief membership this month.
Other members defended the organization, like Amani Duncan, formerly a senior vice president at ViacomCBS. "I was shocked when I started seeing the posts on LinkedIn," Ms. Duncan, 52, said. "I didn't realize how much I needed Chief until I joined. It was kind of kismet."
It's a she-said, she-said story. But it's one that raises a thorny and long-simmering question: Is amassing power for corporate women a worthy goal in itself? Or should female executives, as they ascend, prioritize spotlighting the many social and economic issues holding back more marginalized women?
The recent turmoil at Chief began on International Women's Day, in early March, when a member of the network, Denise Conroy, declared on LinkedIn that she was leaving Chief and accused the group of sidestepping political issues and ghosting women of color who applied for membership. (Ms. Conroy, 51, later acknowledged that she had been reprimanded internally for trying to sell tickets on Chief's platform to an external workshop she was running, which ran counter to the company's policies.) Her post, which generated more than 5,000 reactions, incited larger debate within Chief about the community's future.
Rachel Hassall, a supply chain executive, is one of the Chief members who chose to leave the organization this month. She had recently participated in a discussion that Ms. Conroy hosted about the book "White Women: Everything You Already Know About Your Own Racism and How to Do Better," where some Chief members shared frustrations with the organization's approach to racial inclusivity. Ms. Hassall started to feel ashamed about her membership.
"I did not join thinking this was a political or social revolution," said Ms. Hassall, 37. "But when I got in and realized how much power is in there, then I was like, Why aren't we doing more?"
Chief's founders told The New York Times that their mission was advancing women's leadership in business, not social advocacy. They also pointed to the statements Chief released to the community after the killing of George Floyd, the shootings targeting Asian Americans near Atlanta-area spas and other incidents of racial violence, as well as to donations it has made to racial justice nonprofits. Thirty-three percent of Chief's members are women of color. And the founders said the organization treated all applicants the same. It sends only acceptance emails, not rejections.
"At Chief, we have always wanted to make sure that our values were clear," Ms. Childers said. "But we're also not a social activism organization."
Chief's annual membership costs $ 5,800 for vice presidents and $ 7,900 for C-suite executives; 70 percent of members have their fees covered by employers. Membership brings access to executive coaching, career workshops, in-person meet-ups, a job board and speaker sessions with high-profile women like Michelle Obama and Amal Clooney, as well as entry to chic clubhouses in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco and London for an additional cost. Women can apply or be nominated for membership, and for admission Chief considers their titles as well as the size of their companies and the teams they manage.
"It was challenging to climb the corporate ladder as a first-generation immigrant," said Gabby Hirata, 34, the chief executive of Diane von Furstenberg. "Chief gave me the exposure to observe how the S.V.P.s and C-levels carry themselves."
But some of its members now argue that Chief's group coaching is better suited to supporting the professional experiences of white women. Sibil Patri, 41, a vice president at an asset management company, recalled that when she was first accepted to Chief she felt a high that she'd been chasing since adolescence when she was cut from the cheerleading team: the sense of being in the cool girls' club.
It didn't take long for her sense of belonging to dissipate. Sitting in group coaching sessions, she got the feeling that the white women couldn't relate to the professional problems that the women of color were sharing. Last year, she quit. She emailed Chief then to say the network should have a "stronger curated experience for women of color."
"Chief is a club for white women," Ms. Patri said. "If you are a group built by white women to help white women without centering any of the other intersections, that's fine, but you need to be willing to own that."
"We have really tried to ensure that there's no 'onlys' within those groups," Ms. Childers said of Chief's coaching groups, adding that their guides are trained to facilitate difficult conversations. "There is a lot of training that we try to put in place -- we've been doing inclusivity training specifically with them. But there's more to do."
The company said retention rates for women of color this year were four percentage points higher than for white women.
And some women of color in the community said they didn't share the inclusivity critiques. Sandhya Jain-Patel joined the network in 2019. She enjoyed what members referred to as "Chief disease," which was the zealous support the women gave each other for entrepreneurial ideas batted around at the clubhouses.
"Somebody would be like, 'I want to do this,' and everybody would be like, 'Sure, I'll help you,"' Ms. Jain-Patel, 48, recalled. "I remember saying to somebody one day: 'I have this website idea. This is what I really want to do.' She grabbed my phone, pulled up GoDaddy and was like, 'I'll register it right now."'
Ms. Jain-Patel, though, does have her own frustrations with Chief. "Aside from this core group, what are you doing for us?" she said. "Why are you charging us so much money?"
When Chief's founders, Ms. Kaplan, 38, and Ms. Childers, 43, were building their own careers, access to an executive women's network seemed like a resource worth paying for -- not to mention coaching, which they pointed out can cost tens of thousands of dollars. Just over 10 percent of Fortune 500 companies are run by women. Ms. Childers, who was previously a vice president at the company Handy, recalled fielding constant pleas for advice from young female colleagues earlier in her career. Ms. Kaplan had worked at a start-up where she was the only senior woman, and had to help design her own maternity leave policy.
The two met in 2017 at a networking event in the basement of an Italian restaurant in New York City, and two years later they started the executive women's network. Initially, they thought they would accept members only near their clubhouses. But then the pandemic hit, much of their programming went virtual and they decided to expand their reach.
The network exploded -- its waiting list swelled to 60,000 -- as did its valuation, propelling Chief to become one of the fastest-growing female-founded unicorns. Last year, Chief secured $ 100 million in a Series B round led by Alphabet's growth fund, CapitalG.
Chief is a girl power endeavor drenched in girl power lingo. (Its members love to cite a particular Madeleine Albright quotation.) But its ascent came after the peak era of the so-called Girlboss, a term popularized in 2014 by Sophia Amoruso, the founder of the fashion company Nasty Gal, which went bankrupt in 2016.
Before Chief there was "Lean In," a best-selling book by the former Meta executive Sheryl Sandberg, which spawned the creation of thousands of female support circles -- and then faced backlash for its focus on women turbocharging their careers. There was also the Wing, a women's co-working space, whose chief executive, Audrey Gelman, stepped down in 2020 after facing criticism from Black staff members, and which shuttered in 2022.
Leading a company geared toward women's empowerment became especially fraught last year, when the Supreme Court ended nearly 50 years of federally protected abortion rights.
Ms. Kaplan and Ms. Childers said their organization's mission was to promote women's leadership, and they feel that reproductive choice is inextricable from that. So after the Dobbs v. Jackson ruling Chief joined Don't Ban Equality, a coalition of businesses opposing abortion restrictions; donated $ 250,000 to organizations supporting reproductive choice; hosted educational programs; and expanded abortion-related health care benefits for employees. The company also hosted "listening sessions" for members, which to Ms. Conroy felt like "the scene from 'Mean Girls' where everybody gathered in the gym and shared their feelings."
But some of Chief's members wanted to see the company do more to address Roe v. Wade's overturn in a sustained and public way. A group of Chief members sent an email to the founders listing actions they wanted to see Chief take, including putting some of Chief's advertising money toward statements on reproductive health and even supporting the idea of a "Day Without Women" strike.
"Not being willing to take a very strong stance on women's choice was for me the proverbial nail in the coffin," said Lisa Gralnek, 45, a founder of Chief's internal social impact group, Moving the Needle, who joined the network in 2019 and chose not to renew her membership last year.
Other Chief members defended the company's relative restraint. "If I wanted to be politically active, I would join an organization with that mission," said Michelle Ferguson, 65, who joined Chief in 2019 and came up with the idea for her book ("Women Mentoring Women") because of conversations at the clubhouse.
With 20,000 members of the leadership community, and nearly as many opinions about precisely what its values should be, Chief is facing a period of tumult.
"When you have a brand that has a really strong emotional connection, people take it personally," said Kenneth Chenault, the former chief executive of American Express and a board member of Chief.
Ms. Kaplan and Ms. Childers have spent this month reflecting on responses from members and holding listening sessions.
"As Madeleine Albright -- who I adore -- said, there's a special place in hell for women who don't support other women," Ms. Gralnek said. "I have no interest in seeing these girls fail. I just think they have to start listening to someone other than V.C.s and their own egos."
Photograph Carolyn Childers, left, and Lindsay Kaplan, started Chief in 2019, two years after meeting at a networking event at an Italian restaurant in New York City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIEF); Sandhya Jain-Patel, left, enjoys the enthusiastic support she receives from other members of Chief, but wonders why the membership fee is so high. Denise Conroy, right, left the women's leadership network after accusing the group of sidestepping political issues and ignoring applications from women of color. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILI BENITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; TRISTAN SPINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: White people; Coaching; Donations; Women; Minority & ethnic groups; Maternity & paternity leaves; Racial violence; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations Maternity & paternity leaves Executives

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/28/business/chief-corporate-women-networking-club.html

Title: Is Amassing Power for Corporate Women a Worthy Goal in Itself?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 30, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2792241958

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-amassing-power-corporate-women-worthy-goal/docview/2792241958/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Battle of the Bots, Human Assistants Are the Real Losers: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/battle-bots-human-assistants-are-real-losers/docview/2792241955/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Google's Bard chatbot fared far worse than OpenAI's ChatGPT, but human assistants might soon be out of their jobs.
By now, plenty of us know that artificially intelligent virtual assistants like OpenAI's ChatGPT and Google's Bard can pull off sensational stunts, such as winning coding contests, passing bar exams and professing love to a tech columnist.
But I wondered: How helpful are the bots, really, as actual assistants?
It's worth asking because our first rodeo with virtual assistants didn't go so well. Older A.I. bots like Apple's Siri and Amazon's Alexa had more than a decade to improve, but they ended up stagnating and are now used mostly for setting timers and playing music.
ChatGPT and Bard, on the other hand, use so-called large language models that recognize and generate text based on enormous data sets scraped off the web. They are trained to compose sentences on the fly as if they were human, which potentially makes them far more versatile as assistants.
To test that theory, I came up with a list of tasks that people might ask of a human assistant. I prodded friends who have been executive assistants and start-up founders who have worked with professional helpers, and I read executive assistant job postings on LinkedIn.
Then I rounded up the four most common responsibilities of an executive assistant, which appeared to be:
Helping with meeting preparations by doing research and professional background checks on the person an executive is meeting with.
Summarizing meetings and jotting down the notes in a tidy, easily scannable format.
Planning business trips and compiling detailed travel itineraries.
Managing an executive's calendar, including booking meetings and rescheduling appointments.
Finally, I turned to ChatGPT and Bard and told the chatbots to assume that I was the chief executive of a lazily named A.I. start-up, Artificially Intelligent, and that they were my executive assistants. I asked them to help with each of these tasks.
My experiment illustrated just how far behind Bard is from ChatGPT. But more important, the chatbots succeeded in carrying out most of the tasks, even if imperfectly.
That raised the question of whether the chatbots could eventually automate the roles of human executive assistants, as well as other white-collar jobs that involve administrative work, including front desk workers and accounting professionals -- a disturbing thought with no clear answers.
Here's what unfolded with the A.I. helpers.
Meeting Preparation
I started by telling ChatGPT and Bard that I was meeting with a potential investor next week. I randomly picked Scott Forstall, a well-known former Apple executive whose work history is publicly available on the web. I then asked the bots to do a background check on him and help compile talking points to persuade him to invest in my start-up.
ChatGPT did the job with aplomb. It summarized Mr. Forstall's education and work history, including his departure from Apple in 2012 and his shift into Broadway production -- all information that can be pulled from his Wikipedia page. More impressive, it coached me on helpful strategies to win him over as an investor.
"Showcase how your start-up combines A.I. with other fields, such as cognitive psychology, linguistics or neuroscience, to create innovative solutions," ChatGPT said. "This interdisciplinary approach may resonate with Scott, given his academic background in Symbolic Systems."
ChatGPT also recommended addressing the ethical concerns of A.I. and how my start-up was committed to responsible deployment.
In contrast, Bard gave a less detailed recap of Mr. Forstall's work history, without providing the years for when he made his career moves. Its advice for persuading him to become an investor was nonspecific. One talking point -- "you have a strong business plan and a clear vision for the future of your company" -- was particularly underwhelming.
I shared the pitches with Mr. Forstall in an email. He called Bard's response "comically generic" but said ChatGPT's recommendations were "startlingly bespoke and cogent" as he had spoken at length about his ethical concerns over A.I.
"Overall, ChatGPT provides a compelling road map on how you could build a persuasive customized pitch deck specifically targeting me," Mr. Forstall wrote. "Now that you have my attention, what exactly is your A.I. start-up?"
Google said Bard's minimalist approach to pulling together information about people was intentional. Jack Krawczyk, a senior product director of Bard, said Google was still cautiously experimenting with presenting information about people.
"We're at the beginning of this long arc of the technology," he said. "Rather than get out there and risk a lot of trust violation early on, we want to make sure we're getting it right."
Summarizing Meetings
I then asked the chatbots to summarize a meeting to handle a fictional public relations crisis in which users of my A.I. start-up's technology believed that the bot had become sentient.
In this scenario, I pretended I had met with Karen, the chief technology officer, and Henry, the chief communications officer, and discussed putting out a statement explaining how the A.I. had not become aware of its surroundings.
In response, ChatGPT generated a detailed memo recapping who had attended the meeting and what had been discussed, and then laid out the action plan: Henry would craft a statement, Karen and I would review and approve it, then Henry would release the statement the next morning.
Bard crafted a similar meeting memo, but its action plan was a bit odd. It said that I, the chief executive, was in charge of creating the statement, a job that is typically assigned to the communications officer.
Trip Planning
When I told ChatGPT and Bard that I was traveling to Taipei, Taiwan, next month for a business meeting, I asked them to come up with an itinerary that would help me adjust for jet lag before the meeting. I also asked them to pick a hotel in a central location and recommend quick places to eat throughout the week. Finally, I said I wanted to spend a weekend in Taipei before flying home.
Again, ChatGPT did a remarkable job. It said to arrive in Taipei on Sunday to check into the W Taipei, a hotel in the city center, and grab a quick dinner on Yongkang Street, a bustling part of town with lots of food options. It said to then take Monday to adjust for jet lag before the business meeting on Tuesday. My only nitpick was that Yongkang Street is about three miles from the hotel and there are quicker food options nearby.
Bard recommended taking a nap to adjust for jet lag on Day 1 and then immediately taking the business meeting on Day 2, which was a tad brutal. It didn't bother suggesting a hotel.
Bard also failed to recommend specific places to eat. "Have dinner at a local restaurant," it said instead. Finally, it ignored my request for time to explore the city on the weekend. This was surprising because food and hotel recommendations are typically just a Google search away.
Google said in a statement that Bard was an early experiment and that people could get started using the chatbot to come up with ideas and then click "Google It" to do a web search to explore further.
Calendar
Both Bard and ChatGPT were unable to do the most important job of an executive assistant: checking a calendar and finding time in my schedule to go to the dentist.
That's because the bots cannot gain access to people's calendars. But they most likely will be able to very soon.
Mr. Krawczyk said the goal was to eventually take the lessons it learned from Bard about large language models and apply them across Google's entire portfolio of services, which includes Google Calendar.
OpenAI, which declined to comment, recently announced that it had teamed up with companies to provide plug-ins to make ChatGPT work with third-party services including Expedia, OpenTable and Instacart. Working with a calendar app is an obvious next step.
People or Chatbots?
All these tests brought me to an uncomfortable conclusion about the broad implications of this technology for jobs, especially those that heavily involve repetitious work that could be easily automated.
While people currently make better assistants than chatbots -- and certainly much better than Bard -- A.I. can already do a good enough job handling many administrative tasks. Widespread use of chatbots could potentially shift the duties of executive assistants away from rote tasks and toward more strategic problem solving, or replace humans altogether.
At the pace that these technologies are evolving, we may get to see how all this plays out fairly soon.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Meetings; Automation; Business plans; Startups; Employment; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Automation Business plans Startups Employment

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/29/technology/personaltech/ai-chatgpt-google-bard-assistant.html

Title: In Battle of the Bots, Human Assistants Are the Real Losers:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 30, 2023

column: Tech Fix

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United S tates

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2792241955

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/battle-bots-human-assistants-are-real-losers/docview/2792241955/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

‘We Cannot Believe This Has Happened’: Victims of Nashville School Shooting Are Remembered

Author: Fawcett, Eliza; Jiménez, Jesus; Rojas, Rick

Publication info: Fawcett, Eliza; Jiménez, Jesus; Rojas, Rick. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/we-cannot-believe-this-has-happened-victims/docview/2791768182/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
They were children, two girls and a boy, all 9 years old.
They were substitute teachers and custodians and the head of school.
All six were killed on Monday, when a 28-year-old assailant opened fire inside The Covenant School in Nashville, Tennessee, in the latest school shooting to plague America.
The Metropolitan Nashville Police Department on Monday identified the children killed in the shooting as Evelyn Dieckhaus, William Kinney and Hallie Scruggs, and the school employees as Mike Hill, 61, a school custodian; Katherine Koonce, 60, Covenant’s head of school; and Cynthia Peak, 61, a substitute teacher.
Clay Stauffer, the senior minister of Woodmont Christian Church in Nashville, who said that he knows the Dieckhaus family from church, called Evelyn “an amazing young girl,” and said that her sister, who attends his church’s disciples class, is “absolutely heartbroken.” The Dieckhaus family said in a statement that Evelyn was “a shining light in this world” and that “we cannot believe this has happened.”
Before holding a prayer vigil at his church on Monday, Stauffer said he spent much of the day across the street at Woodmont Baptist Church, which was set up as a reunification area for parents to meet their children.
“That was very hard, very emotional,” Stauffer said. “Not only did we lose a third grader, we also had many other children who are part of our church who were in that building and who were able to make it out to see their families.”
Hallie Scruggs used to live in Dallas, where her father, Chad Scruggs, served as the minister of the Park Cities Presbyterian Church, before moving to Nashville. Now the pastor of Covenant Presbyterian Church, Chad Scruggs in February returned to the pulpit in Dallas to preach, describing the Park Cities community as “incredibly formational in the life of my kids.”
“Their story, in many ways, began here,” he told the congregation.
Hannah Williams, who knew the Scruggs family from when they lived in Dallas, said she babysat the Scruggs children a couple of times.
“This family is pure sweetness and kindness,” Williams said in a Facebook post. “They are a family that has impacted more people than they will ever know. Hallie’s brothers: John Randall, Charlie, and Carter have lost their one and only sister at ages where this trauma will impact their forming brains forever.”
Williams added: “When you see Hallie’s name in Instagram posts, news stories, see this family. This family did not deserve this. No family does. They deserve to wake up from this nightmare with Hallie by their side.”
The family of Hill, the school custodian, said in a statement on Tuesday that they are grateful that he was “beloved by the faculty and students who filled him with joy for 14 years.” He liked to cook and spend time with family, they said, including his seven children and 14 grandchildren.
At Covenant, Hill worked a “job that everyone knows he absolutely loved,” a daughter, Brittany Hill, wrote on Facebook on Monday.
Koonce, the head of school, had served in the role at Covenant since 2016, according to her LinkedIn profile. Before that, she had worked for 16 years at Christ Presbyterian Academy, a private school in Nashville just 5 miles from Covenant, the academy said.
David Thomas, a longtime friend of Koonce’s and a director of family counseling at Nashville-based Daystar Counseling Ministries, said Koonce was a “steady, strong and wise” leader at both schools. At Christ Presbyterian, she worked for many years with students with learning disabilities, and was “such a champion of celebrating kids who struggled with learning,” he said.
“She has always been a woman who is deeply passionate about kids having a love of learning,” Thomas said.
Diane Button, 64, met Koonce in the early 2000s, when she and her family moved to Nashville and her three children began school at Christ Presbyterian. The two became close friends, spending hours discussing parenting, faith and what it means to live a good life, Button said in a Facebook message.
“Katherine was as solid as a friend could be,” Button said. “Her faith was her foundation. Her family was her greatest love, yet she always wanted to work and give back so other families and children could also feel loved and cared for.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Police; Parents; Departments; Private Schools; Substitute Teachers; Family Counseling; Community Relations; Christianity

Subject: Religious schools; School violence; Shootings; Gun violence; Private schools; Mass murders; Massacres; Elementary schools

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

Company / organization: Name: Police Department-Nashville TN; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Linkedin Corporation; Philanthropy; Social Media; Instagram Inc; News And News Media; Education (K 12); Jesus Christ; Memory; United States; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; Accidents And Safety; Facebook Inc; Christians And Christianity; Nashville (Tv Program); Private And Sectarian Schools; Nashville (Tenn); Workplace Hazards And Violations; School Shootings And Armed Attacks; Children And Childhood; Covenant School, Nashville, Tenn, Shooting (2023); Presbyterian Church; Intellectual Disabili ties; Tennessee

Title: ‘We Cannot Believe This Has Happened’: Victims of Nashville School Shooting Are Remembered

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 28, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-28T22:52:58Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2791768182

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/we-cannot-believe-this-has-happened-victims/docview/2791768182/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 28, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Heavily Armed Assailant Kills 6 at School in Nashville: [Correction]

Author: Cochrane, Emily; Shpigel, Ben; Levenson, Michael; Jiménez, Jesus

Publication info: Cochrane, Emily; Shpigel, Ben; Levenson, Michael; Jiménez, Jesus. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/heavily-armed-assailant-kills-6-at-school/docview/2791474718/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The shooter was also killed after police officers responded on Monday morning at the Covenant School, the authorities said.
NASHVILLE -- A 28-year-old from Nashville fatally shot three children and three adults on Monday at a private Christian elementary school, officials said, leaving behind writings and detailed maps of the school and its security protocols.
In the latest episode of gun violence that has devastated American families and communities, the assailant opened fire just after 10 a.m. inside the Covenant School, in the affluent Green Hills neighborhood, where children in preschool through sixth grade had just begun their final full week of classes before Easter break.
The shooter, who the police identified as Audrey E. Hale, had entered the building by firing through a side door, armed with two assault-style weapons and a handgun, according to John Drake, the chief of the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department, and went to the second floor, firing shots before being killed by the police. Chief Drake said that the assailant was "at one point a student" at the school.
Surveillance video released by the police on Monday night showed the shooter drive up to the school in what the police described as a Honda Fit. In the clip, two sets of glass doors shatter from bullets before the assailant ducks into the building through the broken glass.
Wearing camouflage pants, a black vest and a backward red baseball cap, the assailant walks through rooms and hallways with a weapon drawn. At one point, the shooter can be seen walking in and out of the church office and down a hallway past the children's ministry, as the lights of what appear to be a fire alarm flash.
There was confusion about the gender identity of the assailant in the immediate aftermath of the attack. Chief Drake said the shooter identified as transgender. Officials used "she" and "her" to refer to the shooter, but, according to a social media post and a LinkedIn profile, the shooter appeared to identify as male in recent months.
The police in Nashville identified the six victims as Evelyn Dieckhaus, Hallie Scruggs and William Kinney, all 9; Cynthia Peak, 61, a substitute teacher; Mike Hill, 61, a custodian; and Katherine Koonce, 60. Dr. Koonce was the head of school, according to the school website. Hallie Scruggs was the daughter of Chad Scruggs, the pastor of Covenant Presbyterian Church, according to a biography published online by his former church in Dallas. Covenant Presbyterian is connected to the elementary school.
Chief Drake said it was too early to discuss a possible motive for the shooting, though he confirmed that the attack was targeted. The authorities were reviewing writings, and had made contact with the shooter's father, Chief Drake said.
"We have a map drawn out of how this was all going to take place," he said. "There's right now a theory that we may be able to talk about later but it's not confirmed, so we'll put that out as soon as we can."
The shooting shattered the wealthy enclave of Green Hills, a few miles south of downtown Nashville, where the small school and stone church sit atop a hill, nestled in a residential neighborhood filled with stately homes and lush landscaping. Founded in 2001 as a ministry of the Covenant Presbyterian Church, the Covenant School bills itself as "intentionally small" with about 200 students, according to its website, and a student-to-teacher ratio of 8 to 1. Tuition costs around $ 16,000 per year.
Sirens and the buzz of helicopters pierced the still of a sunny spring morning on Monday, sending residents of the area out of their homes to wait for news about the shooting or assurances that their children at neighboring schools had been released from lockdown. A few women gathered around a livestream of the news conference, gasping and shaking their heads.
"It's terrifying when you see parents running up the hill," said Lisa DeBusk, 43, who lives in Green Hills. She said she had considered sending her daughter to Covenant, calling it "the sweetest, most wonderful place."
"We're all resilient, but we shouldn't have to be in this," she added. "I never would have imagined this."
The police received a report of the shooting at 10:13 a.m. and heard gunshots on the second floor when they arrived at the school, a police spokesman, Don Aaron, said. Officers went there, saw the assailant shooting, and two of the officers opened fire, killing the assailant at 10:27 a.m. in a "lobby-type area" on the second floor, Mr. Aaron said. The school does not have a police officer guarding it, he said.
Kendra Loney, a spokeswoman for the Nashville Fire Department, said that schoolchildren and members of the school's staff were escorted out of the building after the shooting, and that a total of 108 people had been transported to the nearby Woodmont Baptist Church.
The pupils -- dressed in the school uniform of red and black polo shirts, plaid skirts and khaki shorts and pants -- held hands as they walked from the buses, escorted by the police, into a conference-like room inside the church. Elsewhere in the building, parents waited to learn if their children were safe.
Rachael Anne Elrod, the Metro Nashville School Board chair, said she was inside "the worst waiting room you can imagine" as officials set about reuniting children with their parents. Some, she said, were debating how to manage the rest of the day after such a traumatic morning.
"They are mostly figuring out how they are going to talk to their children going forward about this," Ms. Elrod said. "What is the next best step? What should they do next? Do we take them to get ice cream? Take them to the playground? Do we ask them what they saw? Do we not ask them what they saw? Do we bring them to school tomorrow? Is there school tomorrow?"
Rachel Dibble, whose children attend a different private school in Nashville, had also visited with Covenant families, some of whom she knew through youth sports.
"It has to stop," Ms. Dibble said of school shootings. "I want a politician to sit in a church with families and 250 kids downstairs that are white as a sheet and trembling and gray and yellow and green and blue because of the shock."
Speaking of the students, she added: "They started this morning, they had their cute little uniforms on, they probably had some Froot Loops. Their whole lives changed today."
There is no consensus on what constitutes a mass shooting; groups define it differently, depending on the circumstances. But the Gun Violence Archive, a nonprofit research group that tracks gun violence using police reports, news coverage and other public sources, defines a mass shooting as one in which at least four people are killed or injured. As of late March, the archive has counted 130 mass shootings in the United States in 2023.
Calling the Nashville shooting "sick" and "a family's worst nightmare," President Biden again pushed Congress on Monday to enact gun-control legislation. He has repeatedly called for such a ban on assault weapons, including during his recent visit to Monterey Park, Calif., where a gunman killed 11 people at a dance studio in January.
"It's about time that we begin to make some progress," Mr. Biden said.
Even as school shootings become more frequent, the shooting at Covenant was unusual.
Many of the highest-profile school shootings in recent years have taken place at public schools, in part because there are far more public schools in the United States: nearly 100,000, compared with about 30,000 private schools.
Shootings at elementary schools are also relatively uncommon, making up less than 20 percent of all incidents of gun violence on school grounds, according to the K-12 School Shooting Database. Most incidents of gun violence on school campuses, including active shooter incidents, happen at high schools.
After spending time in Woodmont Baptist, Melissa Trevathan, the owner of a counseling ministry, grieved the loss of Dr. Koonce, whom she said she had gotten to know through her work with children. Ms. Trevathan, who had come with Pippa, a therapy dog in training, to offer support, characterized Dr. Koonce as "very magnetic" and strong, and recalled her passion for education, sense of humor and love for adventure.
"She would go the ultimate in protecting her kids," Ms. Trevathan said.
Emily Cochrane reported from Nashville. Jamie McGee contributed reporting from Nashville. Reporting was also contributed by Sarah Mervosh, Emily Schmall, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Daniel Victor, Ruth Graham and Victoria Kim. Kirsten Noyes, Susan C. Beachy and Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Emily Cochrane reported from Nashville. Jamie McGee contributed reporting from Nashville. Reporting was also contributed by Sarah Mervosh, Emily Schmall, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Daniel Victor, Ruth Graham and Victoria Kim. Kirsten Noyes, Susan C. Beachy and Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Photograph Outside Woodmont Baptist Church on Monday, where students from the Covenant School were taken to be reunited with parents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DESIREE RIOS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Parents, students and emergency crews outside Woodmont Baptist Church in Nashville after the Monday shooting at the nearby Covenant School. "It's terrifying when you see parents running up the hill," a local resident said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DESIREE RIOS/THE NEW YORK TIMES; JOHN BAZEMORE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A13.

ERIC Subject: Public Schools; Private Schools; Grade 6; Family (Sociological Unit); Police; Parents; Weapons; Small Schools; Violence; Elementary Schools; Elementary Secondary Education; Substitute Teachers; Intermediate Grades; School Uniforms; Elementary Education; School Safety

Subject: Religious schools; School violence; Shootings; Gun violence; Mass murders; Private schools; Elementary schools

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

Title: Heavily Armed Assailant Kills 6 at School in Nashville:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 28, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2791474718

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/heavily-armed-assailant-kills-6-at-school/docview/2791474718/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 28, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Heavily Armed Assailant Kills Six at Christian School in Nashville

Author: Cochrane, Emily; Shpigel, Ben; Levenson, Michael; Jiménez, Jesus

Publication info: Cochrane, Emily; Shpigel, Ben; Levenson, Michael; Jiménez, Jesus. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/heavily-armed-assailant-kills-six-at-christian/docview/2791413399/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — A 28-year-old from Nashville fatally shot three children and three adults on Monday at a private Christian elementary school, officials said, leaving behind writings and detailed maps of the school and its security protocols.
In the latest episode of gun violence that has devastated American families and communities, the assailant opened fire just after 10 a.m. inside the Covenant School, in the affluent Green Hills neighborhood, where children in preschool through sixth grade had just begun their final full week of classes before Easter break.
The shooter, whom the police identified as Audrey Hale, had entered the building by firing through a side door, armed with two assault-style weapons and a handgun, according to John Drake, the chief of the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department, and went to the second floor, firing shots before being killed by police. Drake said the assailant was “at one point a student” at the school.
Surveillance video released by police Monday night showed the shooter drive up to the school in what police described as a Honda Fit. In the clip, two sets of glass doors shatter from bullets before the assailant ducks into the building through the broken glass.
Wearing camouflage pants, a black vest and a backward red baseball cap, the assailant walks through rooms and hallways with a weapon drawn. At one point, the shooter can be seen walking in and out of the church office and down a hallway past the children’s ministry, as the lights of what appear to be a fire alarm flash.
There was confusion about the gender identity of the assailant in the immediate aftermath of the attack. Drake said the shooter identified as transgender. Officials used “she” and “her” to refer to the shooter, but, according to a social media post and a LinkedIn profile, the shooter appeared to identify as male in recent months.
Police in Nashville identified the six victims as Evelyn Dieckhaus, Hallie Scruggs and William Kinney, all 9; Cynthia Peak, 61, a substitute teacher; Mike Hill, 61, a custodian; and Katherine Koonce, 60. Koonce was the head of school, according to the school website.
Hallie Scruggs was the daughter of Chad Scruggs, the pastor of Covenant Presbyterian Church, according to a biography published online by his former church in Dallas. Covenant Presbyterian is connected to the elementary school.
Drake said it was too early to discuss a possible motive for the shooting, although he confirmed that the attack was targeted. Authorities were reviewing writings, and had made contact with the shooter’s father, Drake said.
“We have a map drawn out of how this was all going to take place,” he said. “There’s right now a theory that we may be able to talk about later but it’s not confirmed, so we’ll put that out as soon as we can.”
The shooting shattered the wealthy enclave of Green Hills, a few miles south of downtown Nashville, where the small school and stone church sit atop a hill, nestled in a residential neighborhood filled with stately homes and lush landscaping. Founded in 2001 as a ministry of the Covenant Presbyterian Church, the Covenant School bills itself as “intentionally small” with about 200 students, according to its website, and a student-to-teacher ratio of 8-1. Tuition costs around $16,000 per year.
Sirens and the buzz of helicopters pierced the still of a sunny spring morning on Monday, sending residents of the area out of their homes to wait for news about the shooting or assurances that their children at neighboring schools had been released from lockdown. A few women gathered around a livestream of the news conference, gasping and shaking their heads.
“It’s terrifying when you see parents running up the hill,” said Lisa DeBusk, 43, who lives in Green Hills. She said she had considered sending her daughter to Covenant, calling it “the sweetest, most wonderful place.”
“We’re all resilient, but we shouldn’t have to be in this,” she added. “I never would have imagined this.”
Police received a report of the shooting at 10:13 a.m. and heard gunshots on the second floor when they arrived at the school, a police spokesperson, Don Aaron, said. Officers went there, saw the assailant shooting, and two of the officers opened fire, killing the assailant at 10:27 a.m. in a “lobby-type area” on the second floor, Aaron said. The school does not have a police officer guarding it, he said.
Kendra Loney, a spokesperson for the Nashville Fire Department, said that schoolchildren and members of the school’s staff were escorted out of the building after the shooting, and that a total of 108 people had been transported to the nearby Woodmont Baptist Church.
The pupils — dressed in the school uniform of red and black polo shirts, plaid skirts and khaki shorts and pants — held hands as they walked from the buses, escorted by the police, into a conference-like room inside the church. Elsewhere in the building, parents waited to learn if their children were safe.
Rachael Anne Elrod, the Metro Nashville School Board chair, said she was inside “the worst waiting room you can imagine” as officials set about reuniting children with their parents. Some, she said, were debating how to manage the rest of the day after such a traumatic morning.
“They are mostly figuring out how they are going to talk to their children going forward about this,” Elrod said. “What is the next best step? What should they do next? Do we take them to get ice cream? Take them to the playground? Do we ask them what they saw? Do we not ask them what they saw? Do we bring them to school tomorrow? Is there school tomorrow?”
Rachel Dibble, whose children attend a different private school in Nashville, had also visited with Covenant families, some of whom she knew through youth sports.
“It has to stop,” Dibble said of school shootings. “I want a politician to sit in a church with families and 250 kids downstairs that are white as a sheet and trembling and gray and yellow and green and blue because of the shock.”
Speaking of the students, she added: “They started this morning, they had their cute little uniforms on, they probably had some Froot Loops. Their whole lives changed today.”
There is no consensus on what constitutes a mass shooting; groups define it differently, depending on the circumstances. But the Gun Violence Archive, a nonprofit research group that tracks gun violence using police reports, news coverage and other public sources, defines a mass shooting as one in which at least four people are killed or injured. As of late March, the archive has counted 130 mass shootings in the United States in 2023.
Calling the Nashville shooting “sick” and “a family’s worst nightmare,” President Joe Biden again pushed Congress on Monday to enact gun-control legislation. He has repeatedly called for such a ban on assault weapons, including during his recent visit to Monterey Park, California, where a gunman killed 11 people at a dance studio in January.
“It’s about time that we begin to make some progress,” Biden said.
Even as school shootings become more frequent, the shooting at Covenant was unusual.
Many of the highest-profile school shootings in recent years have taken place at public schools, in part because there are far more public schools in the United States: nearly 100,000, compared with about 30,000 private schools.
Shootings at elementary schools are also relatively uncommon, making up less than 20% of all incidents of gun violence on school grounds, according to the K-12 School Shooting Database. Most incidents of gun violence on school campuses, including active shooter incidents, happen at high schools.
After spending time in Woodmont Baptist, Melissa Trevathan, the owner of a counseling ministry, grieved the loss of Koonce, whom she said she had gotten to know through her work with children. Trevathan, who had come with Pippa, a therapy dog in training, to offer support, characterized Koonce “very magnetic” and strong, and recalled her passion for education, sense of humor and love for adventure.
“She would go the ultimate in protecting her kids,” Trevathan said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Public Schools; Private Schools; Grade 6; Weapons; Violence; School Uniforms; Elementary Education; Family (Sociological Unit); Police; Parents; Small Schools; Elementary Schools; Elementary Secondary Education; Substitute Teachers; Intermediate Grades; School Safety; Christianity; Victims of Crime

Subject: Religious schools; School violence; Shootings; Gun violence; Mass murders; Private schools; Massacres; Elementary schools

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

Identifier / keyword: Honda Motor Co Ltd; Assaults; Linkedin Corporation; California; Shpigel, Ben; Biden, Hallie; Education; Surveillance Of Citizens By Government; Law And Legislation; Private And Sectarian Schools; Easter And Holy Week; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Gun Violence Archive; United States; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Social Media; Accidents And Safety; Christians And Christianity; Drake University; Uniforms; Education (K 12); Fires And Firefighters; Mass Shootings; Baptist Churches; Nashville (Tenn); Churches (Buildings); Workplace Hazards And Violations; Monterey Park, Calif, Shooting (Jan, 2023); Transit Systems; Athletics And Sports; School Shootings And Armed Attacks; Children And Childhood; Monterey Park (Calif); Gun Control; Interscholastic Athletics; Security And Warning Systems; Covenant School, Nashville, Tenn, Shooting (2023); Presbyterian Church; Tennessee; Firearms; Appointments And Executive Changes

Title: Heavily Armed Assailant Kills Six at Christian School in Nashville

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 28, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-28T04:19:28Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2791413399

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/heavily-armed-assailant-kills-six-at-christian/docview/2791413399/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New Yor k Times Company Mar 28, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Banking Industry's Go-To Adviser Is Trying to Clean Up a Crisis: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren; Rennison, Joe; Livni, Ephrat; Kessler, Sarah

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren; Rennison, Joe; Livni, Ephrat; Kessler, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/banking-industrys-go-adviser-is-trying-clean-up/docview/2791076621/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Rodge Cohen is one of the most influential people behind the scenes of cleaning up the banking crisis.
Key adviser
There are plenty of differences between the fallout from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and the 2008 financial crisis, but one similarity is the man trying to clean it up: H. Rodgin Cohen, known as Rodge, the senior chair at the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell.
The soft-spoken Mr. Cohen was at the center of efforts to save Silicon Valley Bank and First Republic, the latter of which involved a call between the Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and the JPMorgan Chase boss Jamie Dimon. Here's what to know about one of the most influential players in the banking crisis who isn't making headlines.
Mr. Cohen is a sought-after adviser in banking crises, and he has worked on almost every one in the last several decades. "Rodge is the banking lawyer's go-to -- there's nobody who comes close to his level of reliability in the entire realm of substantive banking law," said Sarah Raskin, a former deputy secretary of the Treasury. She added that she still finds herself in rooms of lawyers asking, "What would Rodge say?"
Mr. Cohen also once played a role in an international crisis: During the Iran-contra affair, he advised the American banks that released Iranian funds as a condition to free the American hostages.
He's been at Sullivan & Cromwell for more than 50 years. After a run on Continental Illinois Bank forced a government seizure in 1984, Mr. Cohen led its negotiations with the F.D.I.C. He represented the Bank of New York in its $ 1.48 billion bid for Irving Bank, one of the first hostile takeovers of a bank, in 1988.
During the 2008 financial crisis, he represented either the buyer or the seller in nearly every major bank deal, including the government-backed sale of Washington Mutual to JPMorgan Chase. He was in such strong demand that he went from advising Lehman Brothers before it collapsed to counseling Barclays, which bought up a substantial part of the firm, after it fell. "Every time I looked up, it seemed like Rodge was in the room," Henry Paulson, the former Treasury secretary, told The Times in 2009.
This crisis may require new maneuvers. Mr. Cohen advised Silicon Valley Bank as it scrambled for a buyer and has been counseling First Republic as it clamors for a lifeline. (The bank's move to inject some $ 30 billion in capital from 11 banks was a page from a well-tested playbook of joint intervention, including for Continental Illinois.)
But as First Republic continues to teeter -- and questions swirl about the extent of government intervention -- the question now for First Republic and others is what the 2023 playbook will look like. If past patterns continue, Mr. Cohen will have a role in writing it. -- Lauren Hirsch
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
A risky vacancy. Silicon Valley Bank operated without a chief risk officer for much of the last year, reports The Wall Street Journal. The job is among the industry's most thankless, but SVB's collapse underscores how much it matters.
Profit motive. Elon Musk cut off funding to OpenAI in 2018, leaving it without a way to pay for the expensive job of training its A.I. models on supercomputers, reports Semafor. Soon after, the company announced that it would create a for-profit entity.
Palm payment. JPMorgan Chase plans to test new technology that would allow consumers to pay with their palms or faces at some U.S. merchants. The bank, one of the world's biggest payment processors, expects the technology to account for $ 5.8 trillion in transactions by 2026.
A.I. on A.I. Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, wrote a book about artificial intelligence with the help of GPT-4, the newly released language model from Open AI, which Hoffman has funded.
Is this a 'Minsky moment'?
"Minsky moment" last entered the zeitgeist during the 2008 financial crisis, and some pundits are now putting it to use to comment on the current banking crisis. It describes the point after a long bull run when it becomes clear that asset values are unsustainable and an epic crash looms.
The back story: The term was coined by the economist Paul McCulley in 1998 as asset bubbles burst and is based on the "financial instability hypothesis" of the economist Hyman Minsky. His hypothesis holds that over a prolonged period of prosperity, investors take on increasing risk until lending exceeds what borrowers can pay off and they start selling safe assets, leading to plunging markets and creating a cash crunch.
Does the phrase apply to what is happening right now? Probably not. SVB didn't fall because it was overleveraged -- rather, fleeing depositors forced it to sell assets at deflated values, so technically SVB was not a Minsky moment, writes Zongyuan Zoe Liu, an economic policy fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. But analysts at JPMorgan see a potential Minsky moment ahead as interest rates rise and economic engines sputter, citing concerns about global banking woes among other signals.
14 percent
-- The decline in Chinese billionaires last year as the ultrarich paid for China's zero-Covid policy, a regulatory crackdown on private enterprise and a property collapse.
Switzerland wiped out Credit Suisse bondholders, and it's a big deal
When the Swiss government forced the marriage of UBS and Credit Suisse, it wrote down about $ 17 billion of the latter's bonds and prioritized shareholders over bondholders, writes The Times's Joe Rennison, upending the usual order of who takes losses first in a bankruptcy. In the words of the Standard Chartered C.E.O. Bill Winters, that could have "profound" implications for how banks are run and for global regulation.
The deal targeted an obscure part of the debt market. Additional tier one, or AT1, bonds, are issued by many European banks. They count toward their capital requirements because in stressed situations, they can be written off and converted into equity to help keep the bank from failing.
The Swiss regulator Finma defended the decision to write down Credit Suisse's AT1 bonds, saying it was necessary to "protect clients, the financial center and markets." Finma added that AT1 bonds include contractual language that they can be "written down in a viability event," if the government gives it the authority to do so.
But after the write-down, the AT1 bonds at other European lenders, including Barclays, Standard Chartered and BNP Paribas, all fell sharply even though E.U. regulators said they would adhere to the conventional hierarchy of who benefits first in the case of a bankruptcy and equity holders would take the first hit. As worries swirled around Deutsche Bank, sending its share down as much as 15 percent yesterday, its bonds also fell. One dollar bond dropped from 96 cents on the euro at the start of the month to less than 70 cents yesterday.
Winters says the Swiss move could change how banks are assessed, because Credit Suisse's bonds were wiped out even though the bank was solvent. "The issue isn't do the regulators have confidence in our solvency. It's does the market have confidence in our liquidity?" he told a conference in Hong Kong.
Bondholders may take legal action. The law firms Quinn Emmanuel and Parras Partners are vying to represent specialist investors like Centerbridge and Davidson Kempner, as well as traditional fund managers like Pimco and Invesco. But they don't have long to argue their point: Action needs to be taken within 30 days of the deal, according to people familiar with the process.
On our radar: The final season of 'Succession'
The fourth and last season of "Succession" begins tomorrow. With all the recent drama among the real-life Murdochs -- the 92-year-old Rupert announcing his plans for a fifth wedding, a $ 1.6 billion defamation lawsuit, and a failed attempt to merge two parts of a giant media empire -- you may have not missed the fictional media dynasty that bears more than a slight resemblance to the family. But early reviews suggest "Succession" is worth watching -- especially given the promise of an actual conclusion. The Guardian called it "TV's most agonising, pulverising drama" (which seems to be a compliment). Vogue says it's "a lightning strike," and Rolling Stone wrote, "It is full steam ahead to the end."
Thanks for reading!
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Photograph Rodge Cohen, of Sullivan & Cromwell, in 2009. He guided Silicon Valley Bank as it scrambled for a buyer and has been advising the also-troubled First Republic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Bankruptcy; Banking industry; Economic crisis; Hypotheses; Treasuries; Writedowns; International relations; Banking law; Banks; Defamation

Business indexing term: Subject: Bankruptcy Banking industry Economic crisis Treasuries Writedowns International relations Banking law Banks

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; Illinois

Company / organization: Name: Silicon Valley Bank-Santa Clara CA; NAICS: 522110; Name: JPMorgan Chase & Co; NAICS: 522110, 522292, 523150; Name: Sullivan & Cromwell; NAICS: 541110; Name: Credit Suisse Group AG; NAICS: 523150, 523920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2 023/03/25/business/dealbook/rodge-cohen-banking-crisis.html

Title: The Banking Industry's Go-To Adviser Is Trying to Clean Up a Crisis:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 27, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2791076621

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/banking-industrys-go-adviser-is-trying-clean-up/docview/2791076621/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

U.S. Volunteers Add to Chaos On Battlefield: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Scheck, Justin; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas

Publication info: Scheck, Justin; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-volunteers-add-chaos-on-battlefield/docview/2790715077/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: People who would not be allowed anywhere near the battlefield in a U.S.-led war are active on the Ukrainian front, with ready access to American weapons.
They rushed to Ukraine by the thousands, many of them Americans who promised to bring military experience, money or supplies to the battleground of a righteous war. Hometown newspapers hailed their commitment, and donors backed them with millions of dollars.
Now, after a year of combat, many of these homespun groups of volunteers are fighting with themselves and undermining the war effort. Some have wasted money or stolen valor. Others have cloaked themselves in charity while also trying to profit off the war, records show.
One retired Marine lieutenant colonel from Virginia is the focus of a U.S. federal investigation into the potentially illegal export of military technology. A former Army soldier arrived in Ukraine only to turn traitor and defect to Russia. A Connecticut man who lied about his military service has posted live updates from the battlefield -- including his exact location -- and boasted about his easy access to American weapons. A former construction worker is hatching a plan to use fake passports to smuggle in fighters from Pakistan and Iran.
And in one of the more curious entanglements, one of the largest volunteer groups is embroiled in a power struggle involving an Ohio man who falsely claimed to have been both a U.S. Marine and a LongHorn Steakhouse assistant manager. The dispute also involves a years-old incident on Australian reality TV.
Such characters have a place in Ukraine's defense because of the arms-length role the United States has taken: The Biden administration sends weapons and money but not professional troops. That means people who would not be allowed anywhere near the battlefield in a U.S.-led war are active on the Ukrainian front -- often with unchecked access to weapons and military equipment.
Many of the volunteers who hurried to Ukraine did so selflessly and acted with heroism. Some have lost their lives. Foreigners have rescued civilians, aided the wounded and fought ferociously alongside Ukrainians. Others raised money for crucial supplies.
But in Europe's largest land war since 1945, the do-it-yourself approach does not discriminate between trained volunteers and those who lack the skills or discipline to assist effectively.
The New York Times reviewed more than 100 pages of documents from inside volunteer groups and interviewed more than 30 volunteers, fighters, fund-raisers, donors and American and Ukrainian officials. Some spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive information.
The interviews and research reveal a series of deceptions, mistakes and squabbles that have hindered the volunteer drive that began after Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022, when President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine called for help. "Every friend of Ukraine who wants to join Ukraine in defending the country, please come over," he said. "We will give you weapons."
Thousands answered the call. Some joined military groups like the International Legion, which Ukraine formed for foreign fighters. Others took roles in support or fund-raising. With Kyiv, Ukraine's capital, under attack, there was little time for vetting arrivals. So people with problematic pasts, including checkered or fabricated military records, became entrenched in the Legion and a constellation of other volunteer groups.
Asked about these problems, the Ukrainian military did not address specific issues but did say that it was on guard because Russian agents regularly tried to infiltrate volunteer groups. "We investigated such cases and handed them over to law enforcement agencies," said Andriy Cherniak, a representative for Ukrainian military intelligence.
'A Million Lies'
One of the best-known Americans on the battlefield is James Vasquez. Days after the invasion, Mr. Vasquez, a Connecticut home-improvement contractor, announced that he was leaving for Ukraine. His local newspaper told the tale of a former U.S. Army staff sergeant who left behind his job and family and picked up a rifle and a rucksack on the front line.
Since then, he has posted battlefield videos online, at least once broadcasting his unit's precise location to everyone, including the opposing side. He used his story to solicit donations. "I was in Kuwait during Desert Storm, and I was in Iraq after 9/11," Mr. Vasquez said in a fund-raising video. He added, "This is a whole different animal."
Mr. Vasquez, in fact, was never deployed to Kuwait, Iraq or anywhere else, a Pentagon spokeswoman said. He specialized in fuel and electrical repairs. And he left the Army Reserve not as a sergeant as he claimed, but as a private first class, one of the Army's lowest ranks.
Still, Mr. Vasquez had easy access to weapons, including American rifles. Where did they come from? "I'm not exactly sure," Mr. Vasquez said in a text message. The rifles, he added, were "brand-new, out of the box and we have plenty." He also tweeted that he should not have to worry about international rules of war while in Ukraine.
He fought alongside Da Vinci's Wolves, a Ukrainian far-right battalion, until this past week, when The Times asked about his false military service claims. He immediately deactivated his Twitter account and said that he might leave Ukraine because the authorities had discovered that he was fighting without a required military contract.
Mr. Vasquez said he had been misrepresenting his military record for decades. He acknowledged being kicked out of the Army but would not talk publicly about why. "I had to tell a million lies to get ahead," Mr. Vasquez said in an interview. "I didn't realize it was going to come to this."
Public Quarrels
The International Legion, hastily formed by the Ukrainian government, spent 10 minutes or less checking each volunteer's background early in the war, one Legion official said. So a Polish fugitive who had been jailed in Ukraine for weapon violations got a position leading troops. Soldiers told The Kyiv Independent that he had misappropriated supplies, harassed women and threatened his soldiers.
Ukrainian officials initially boasted of 20,000 potential Legion volunteers, but far fewer actually enlisted. Currently, there are around 1,500 members in the organization, say people with knowledge of the Legion.
Some are experienced fighters working as part of the Defense Intelligence of Ukraine. But there have been high-profile problems. A former Army private first class, John McIntyre, was ejected from the Legion for bad behavior. Mr. McIntyre defected to Russia and recently appeared on state-run television, which said he had provided military intelligence to Moscow.
Internal documents show that the Legion is struggling. Recruitment has stagnated. The Washington-based Counter Extremism Project wrote in March that the Legion and affiliated groups "continue to feature individuals widely seen as unfit to perform their duties."
Malcolm Nance, a former Navy cryptologist and MSNBC commentator, arrived in Ukraine last year and made a plan to bring order and discipline to the Legion. Instead, he became enmeshed in the chaos.
Mr. Nance, whose television appearances have made him one of the most visible Americans supporting Ukraine, was an experienced military operator. He drafted a code of honor for the organization and, by all accounts, donated equipment.
Today, Mr. Nance is involved in a messy, distracting power struggle. Often, that plays out on Twitter, where Mr. Nance taunted one former ally as "fat" and an associate of "a verified con artist."
He accused a pro-Ukraine fund-raising group of fraud, providing no evidence. After arguing with two Legion administrators, Mr. Nance wrote a "counterintelligence" report trying to get them fired. Central to that report is an accusation that one Legion official, Emese Abigail Fayk, fraudulently tried to buy a house on an Australian reality TV show with money she didn't have. He labeled her "a potential Russian spy," offering no evidence. Ms. Fayk denied the accusations and remains with the Legion.
Mr. Nance said that as a member of the Legion with an intelligence background, when he developed concerns, he "felt an obligation to report this to Ukrainian counterintelligence."
The dispute goes to the heart of who can be trusted to speak for and raise money for the Legion.
Mr. Nance has left Ukraine but continues fund-raising with a new group of allies. One of them, Ben Lackey, is a former Legion member. He told his fellow volunteers that he was once a Marine and wrote on LinkedIn that he had most recently been an assistant manager at LongHorn Steakhouse. In fact, the Pentagon said he had no military experience (and he worked as a server, the steakhouse said).
In an interview, Mr. Lackey said that he had lied about being a U.S. Marine so he could join the Legion.
With Legion growth stalling, Ryan Routh, a former construction worker from Greensboro, N.C., is seeking recruits from among Afghan soldiers who fled the Taliban. Mr. Routh, who spent several months in Ukraine last year, said he planned to move them, in some cases illegally, from Pakistan and Iran to Ukraine. He said dozens had expressed interest.
"We can probably purchase some passports through Pakistan, since it's such a corrupt country," he said in an interview from Washington.
It is not clear whether he has succeeded, but one former Afghan soldier said he had been contacted and was interested in fighting if it meant leaving Iran, where he was living illegally.
Misdirected Donations
Grady Williams, a 65-year-old retired engineer with no military experience and a methamphetamine conviction from 2019, was a volunteer tour guide at Ronald Reagan's Santa Barbara ranch when he heard Mr. Zelensky's plea for volunteers.
"I shot rifles since I was 13," he said in an interview. "I had no excuse to say, 'Well, I shouldn't go."'
He said he had flown to Poland, hitchhiked to Ukraine and taken a train to Kyiv. He bumped into two Americans in military-looking gear. "They said, 'Dude, come with us,"' he said.
The volunteers brought Mr. Williams to a base near the front and gave him a gun. Days later, he said, he was nearly blown up while fighting alongside Ukrainian soldiers from a trench near Bucha. Within a week, the military realized that he had not registered to fight and sent him back to Kyiv.
From there, he took a circuitous path that ended in raising money for volunteers from the Republic of Georgia. He raised about $ 16,000, telling donors that their money would buy electric motorcycles for fighters. But the Georgians kicked him out after he got into a conflict with another volunteer. He said he had spent about $ 6,900 of the contributions on down payments for motorbikes and the rest on his travel and other expenses.
He has since linked up with a new group, which he said had promised him command of a motorcycle unit if he raised enough money. So he moved this month to Odesa, Ukraine, he said, and expects to deliver a single motorbike soon.
Examples of wasted money in the hands of well-intentioned people are common. Mriya Aid, a group led by an active-duty Canadian lieutenant colonel, spent about $ 100,000 from donors on high-tech U.S.-style night-vision devices. They ended up being less-effective Chinese models, internal documents show.
"We experienced a problem with the night vision," said Lubomyr Chabursky, a volunteer on Mriya Aid's leadership team. But he said the purchase represented only 2 percent of the aid the group had provided.
Earlier this year, the Mozart Group, which two former Marines established to help Ukraine, disbanded after one sued the other, alleging theft and harassment.
Absent Paper Trail
Last spring, a volunteer group called Ripley's Heroes said it had spent approximately $ 63,000 on night-vision and thermal optics. Some of the equipment was subject to American export restrictions because, in the wrong hands, it could give enemies a battlefield advantage.
Frontline volunteers said Ripley's delivered the equipment to Ukraine without required documentation listing the actual buyers and recipients. Recently, the federal authorities began investigating the shipments, U.S. officials said.
In his defense, the group's founder, a retired U.S. Marine named Lt. Col. Hunter Ripley Rawlings IV, provided deal documents to The Times. But those records show that, just as the volunteers said, Ripley's was not disclosed to the State Department as the buyer.
Ripley's says it has raised over $ 1 million, some of it thanks to the former Connecticut contractor, Mr. Vasquez, who claimed to be the group's chief strategy officer and promoted Ripley's to his online audience.
Ripley's spent about $ 25,000 on remote-control reconnaissance cars last year, but they never arrived, shipping records show. Colonel Rawlings said the Polish authorities had held them up over legal concerns.
Colonel Rawlings has said that his group is awaiting American nonprofit status. But he has not revealed his spending or proof of a nonprofit application to The Times or to donors who have asked. So it is not clear where the money is going. "I believed these guys," said Shaun Stants, who said he had organized a fund-raiser in October in Pittsburgh but was never shown the financial records he asked for. "And they took me for a fool."
Corporate records in Poland and the United States show that Colonel Rawlings also started a for-profit company called Iron Forge. In an interview, he said he expected his charity and others to pay Iron Forge for transportation, meaning that donor money would be used to finance his private venture. But he said no conflict of interest existed because Iron Forge would ultimately send money back to the charities. Details are being worked out, he said.
In the days after The Times approached Mr. Vasquez and others, members of the squabbling groups -- Ripley's, the Legion, the dissident Legion members and more -- escalated their feud. They accused one another of misappropriating funds and lying about their credentials.
After a former ally turned on Mr. Vasquez, Mr. Nance came to his defense.
"James was NOT fake, he was troubled," Mr. Nance said on Twitter. "He did a lot for Ukraine but has challenges to face."
Najim Rahim contributed reporting from Berkeley, Calif., and Maria Varenikova and Daria Mitiuk from Kyiv, Ukraine.
Najim Rahim contributed reporting from Berkeley, Calif., and Maria Varenikova and Daria Mitiuk from Kyiv, Ukraine.
Photograph Axel Vilhelmsen trained Ukrainian soldiers as part of the Mozart Group, which disbanded after one founder sued the other, alleging theft and harassment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA BOUSHNAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIME); Among those who joined Ukraine's foreign fighters are, from left, Malcolm Nance, a counterterrorism expert and MSNBC commentator; James Vasquez, a home-improvement contractor; and Lieutenant Colonel Rawlings IV, a retired Marine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FINBARR O'REILLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); GRADY WILLIAMS, 65, a retired engineer from the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BUTOW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) This article appeared in print on page A1, A10.

Subject: Military service; Intelligence gathering; Military technology; Military intelligence; Volunteers; Military personnel; Armed forces; War; Americans abroad

Location: Russia; United States--US; Ukraine

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/25/world/europe/volunteers-us-ukraine-lies.html

Title: U.S. Volunteers Add to Chaos On Battlefield:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 26, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2790715077

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/u-s-volunteers-add-chaos-on-battlefield/docview/2790715077/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'CFBR': [MONEY AND BUSINESS/FINANCIAL DESK]

Author: Huang, Kalley

Publication info: Huang, Kalley. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cfbr/docview/2790714928/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The abbreviation, which stands for "commenting for better reach," has become a way for users on LinkedIn to support one another's job searches.
CFBR
/see-ef-bee-ahr/
An abbreviation for "commenting for better reach," so social media posts can be boosted by algorithms that favor content with high engagement.
Abbreviations like "LOL" and "ILY" are popular expressions used across the web, and these days chances are you have probably seen "CFBR," which stands for "commenting for better reach" and appears regularly under posts on LinkedIn.
People comment "CFBR" on others' posts to signal solidarity, and sometimes people ask commenters to write "CFBR" on their own posts to give them traction. The expression is becoming ubiquitous on LinkedIn as tech workers who have lost their jobs in recent months are turning to the platform to look for new opportunities.
A short comment from a stranger could mean hundreds more people see a post about layoffs, and come across a jobseeker's profile.
Last year, more than 161,000 people were laid off from technology companies and start-ups, according to Layoffs.fyi, a site that tracks job cuts. So far this year, more than 148,000 people have been laid off.
Over the past six months, as the tech sector has had its worst contraction since the dot-com bust in the early 2000s, the number of people who have turned on the "open to work" feature on LinkedIn has increased 20 percent, to 18 million, a spokeswoman for the company said.
Stephan Meier, a professor at Columbia Business School, called commenting on a layoff post "a completely altruistic act," especially if the commenter doesn't know the poster. The activity around layoffs shows how much people rely on LinkedIn -- and its algorithm -- to network, he said.
Late last year, when Amazon began to lay off what would become 18,000 employees, Heather Harris, 34, posted on LinkedIn about the cuts, asking people to "like, share, comment for better reach" on her posts.
Since then, strangers have tagged Ms. Harris, who works in human resources, in posts about job openings and sent her encouraging messages.
"I don't know if the 'CFBR' did it, but I kind of feel like it did," she said. "The more that people comment on your posts, the more it pops up on other people's feeds."
But Ms. Harris doesn't comment "CFBR" on other people's posts. She prefers the solidarity underpinning "CFBR" over the term itself. It can seem "spammy," she said, akin to "like for like" comments on Instagram.
"My personal preference is to comment something that is sincere and genuine and encouraging, rather than just 'CFBR,"' she said.
Ankit Singh, 30, writes "CFBR" only on posts about layoffs because he believes those posts need to be more visible on LinkedIn than other posts. He has noticed people commenting "reach+" -- with varying amounts of pluses -- on layoff posts, and said those comments also represented professionals looking out for one another.
"As a job seeker, I know how people feel," said Mr. Singh, who studies electrical engineering at New York University. "Even if I just click like or comment 'CFBR,' it's something to help them. If someone comments on my post, and a recruiter sees it, it could help me."
Shop Talk explores idioms of the business world. Want to nominate a word or term for the column? Email shoptalk@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Layoffs

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/23/business/sorry-you-were-laid-off-cfbr.html

Title: 'CFBR':   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast ); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 26, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2790714928

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cfbr/docview/2790714928/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Stolen Valor: The U.S. Volunteers in Ukraine Who Lie, Waste and Bicker

Author: Scheck, Justin; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas

Publication info: Scheck, Justin; Gibbons-Neff, Thomas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stolen-valor-u-s-volunteers-ukraine-who-lie-waste/docview/2790419042/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
KYIV, Ukraine — They rushed to Ukraine by the thousands, many of them Americans who promised to bring military experience, money or supplies to the battleground of a righteous war. Hometown newspapers hailed their commitment, and donors backed them with millions of dollars.
Now, after a year of combat, many of these homespun groups of volunteers are fighting with themselves and undermining the war effort. Some have wasted money or stolen valor. Others have cloaked themselves in charity while also trying to profit off the war, records show.
One retired Marine lieutenant colonel from Virginia is the focus of a U.S. federal investigation into the potentially illegal export of military technology. A former Army soldier arrived in Ukraine only to turn traitor and defect to Russia. A Connecticut man who lied about his military service has posted live updates from the battlefield — including his exact location — and boasted about his easy access to American weaponry. A former construction worker is hatching a plan to use fake passports to smuggle in fighters from Pakistan and Iran.
And in one of the more curious entanglements, one of the largest volunteer groups is embroiled in a power struggle involving an Ohio man who falsely claimed to have been both a U.S. Marine and a LongHorn Steakhouse assistant manager. The dispute also involves a years-old incident on Australian reality TV.
Such characters have a place in Ukraine’s defense because of the arms-length role the United States has taken: The Biden administration sends weapons and money but not professional troops. That means people who would not be allowed anywhere near the battlefield in a U.S.-led war are active on the Ukrainian front — often with unchecked access to weapons and military equipment.
Many of the volunteers who hurried to Ukraine did so selflessly and acted with heroism. Some have lost their lives. Foreigners have rescued civilians, aided the wounded and fought ferociously alongside Ukrainians. Others raised money for crucial supplies.
But in Europe’s largest land war since 1945, the do-it-yourself approach does not discriminate between trained volunteers and those who lack the skills or discipline to assist effectively.
The New York Times reviewed more than 100 pages of documents from inside volunteer groups and interviewed more than 30 volunteers, fighters, fundraisers, donors, and U.S. and Ukrainian officials. Some spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive information.
The interviews and research reveal a series of deceptions, mistakes and squabbles that have hindered the volunteer drive that began after Russia’s full-scale invasion in February 2022, when President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine called for help. “Every friend of Ukraine who wants to join Ukraine in defending the country, please come over,” he said. “We will give you weapons.”
Thousands answered the call. Some joined military groups like the International Legion, which Ukraine formed for foreign fighters. Others took roles in support or fundraising. With Kyiv, Ukraine’s capital, under attack, there was little time for vetting arrivals. So people with problematic pasts, including checkered or fabricated military records, became entrenched in the Legion and a constellation of other volunteer groups.
Asked about these problems, the Ukrainian military did not address specific issues but did say it was on guard because Russian agents regularly tried to infiltrate volunteer groups. “We investigated such cases and handed them over to law enforcement agencies,” said Andriy Cherniak, a representative for Ukrainian military intelligence.
‘A Million Lies’
One of the best-known Americans on the battlefield is James Vasquez. Days after the invasion, Vasquez, a Connecticut home-improvement contractor, announced he was leaving for Ukraine. His local newspaper told the tale of a former U.S. Army staff sergeant who left behind his job and family and picked up a rifle and a rucksack on the front line.
Since then, he has posted battlefield videos online, at least once broadcasting his unit’s precise location to everyone, including the opposing side. He used his story to solicit donations. “I was in Kuwait during Desert Storm, and I was in Iraq after 9/11,” Vasquez said in a fundraising video. He added, “This is a whole different animal.”
Vasquez, in fact, was never deployed to Kuwait, Iraq or anywhere else, a Pentagon spokesperson said. He specialized in fuel and electrical repairs. And he left the Army Reserve not as a sergeant as he claimed, but as a private first class, one of the Army’s lowest ranks.
Still, Vasquez had easy access to weapons, including American rifles. Where did they come from? “I’m not exactly sure,” Vasquez said in a text message. The rifles, he added, were “brand-new, out of the box and we have plenty.” He also tweeted that he should not have to worry about international rules of war while in Ukraine.
He fought alongside Da Vinci’s Wolves, a Ukrainian far-right battalion, until this past week, when the Times asked about his false military service claims. He immediately deactivated his Twitter account and said he might leave Ukraine because authorities discovered he was fighting without a required military contract.
Vasquez said he had been misrepresenting his military record for decades. He acknowledged being kicked out of the Army but would not talk publicly about why. “I had to tell a million lies to get ahead,” Vasquez said in an interview. “I didn’t realize it was going to come to this.”
Public Quarrels
The International Legion, hastily formed by the Ukrainian government, spent 10 minutes or less checking each volunteer’s background early in the war, one Legion official said. So a Polish fugitive who had been jailed in Ukraine for weapon violations got a position leading troops. Soldiers told The Kyiv Independent that he misappropriated supplies, harassed women and threatened his soldiers.
Ukrainian officials initially boasted of 20,000 potential Legion volunteers, but far fewer actually enlisted. Currently, there are around 1,500 members in the organization, say people with knowledge of the Legion.
Some are experienced fighters working as part of the Defense Intelligence of Ukraine.
But there have been high-profile problems. A former Army private first class, John McIntyre, was ejected from the Legion for bad behavior. McIntyre defected to Russia and recently appeared on state-run television, which said he provided military intelligence to Moscow.
Internal documents show that the Legion is struggling. Recruitment has stagnated. The Washington-based Counter Extremism Project wrote in March that the Legion and affiliated groups “continue to feature individuals widely seen as unfit to perform their duties.”
Malcolm Nance, a former Navy cryptologist and MSNBC commentator, arrived in Ukraine last year and made a plan to bring order and discipline to the Legion. Instead, he became enmeshed in the chaos.
Nance, whose TV appearances have made him one of the most visible Americans supporting Ukraine, was an experienced military operator. He drafted a code of honor for the organization and, by all accounts, donated equipment.
Today, Nance is involved in a messy, distracting power struggle. Often, that plays out on Twitter, where Nance taunted one former ally as “fat” and an associate of “a verified con artist.”
He accused a pro-Ukraine fundraising group of fraud, providing no evidence. After arguing with two Legion administrators, Nance wrote a “counterintelligence” report trying to get them fired. Central to that report is an accusation that one Legion official, Emese Abigail Fayk, fraudulently tried to buy a house on an Australian reality TV show with money she didn’t have. He labeled her “a potential Russian spy,” offering no evidence. Fayk denied the accusations and remains with the Legion.
Nance said that as a member of the Legion with an intelligence background, when he developed concerns, he “felt an obligation to report this to Ukrainian counterintelligence.”
The dispute goes to the heart of who can be trusted to speak for and raise money for the Legion.
Nance has left Ukraine but continues fundraising with a new group of allies. One of them, Ben Lackey, is a former Legion member. He told his fellow volunteers that he was once a Marine and wrote on LinkedIn that he had most recently been an assistant manager at LongHorn Steakhouse. In fact, the Pentagon said he had no military experience (and he worked as a server, the steakhouse said).
In an interview, Lackey said that he lied about being a U.S. Marine so he could join the Legion.
With Legion growth stalling, Ryan Routh, a former construction worker from Greensboro, North Carolina, is seeking recruits from among Afghan soldiers who fled the Taliban. Routh, who spent several months in Ukraine last year, said he planned to move them, in some cases illegally, from Pakistan and Iran to Ukraine. He said dozens had expressed interest.
“We can probably purchase some passports through Pakistan since it’s such a corrupt country,” he said in an interview from Washington.
It is not clear if he has succeeded, but one former Afghan soldier said he had been contacted and was interested in fighting if it meant leaving Iran, where he was living illegally.
Misdirected Donations
Grady Williams, a 65-year-old retired engineer with no military experience and a methamphetamine conviction from 2019, was a volunteer tour guide at Ronald Reagan’s Santa Barbara ranch when he heard Zelenskyy’s plea for volunteers.
“I shot rifles since I was 13,” he said in an interview. “I had no excuse to say, ‘Well, I shouldn’t go.’”
He said he flew to Poland, hitchhiked to Ukraine and took a train to Kyiv. He bumped into two Americans in military-looking gear. “They said ‘Dude, come with us,’” he said.
The volunteers brought Williams to a base near the front and gave him a gun. Days later, he said, he was nearly blown up while fighting alongside Ukrainian soldiers from a trench near Bucha. Within a week, the military realized that he had not registered to fight and sent him back to Kyiv.
From there, he took a circuitous path that ended in raising money for volunteers from the Republic of Georgia. He raised about $16,000, telling donors their money would buy electric motorcycles for fighters. But the Georgians kicked him out after he got into a conflict with another volunteer. He said he spent about $6,900 of the contributions on down payments for motorbikes and the rest on his travel and other expenses.
He has since linked up with a new group, which he said promised him command of a motorcycle unit if he raised enough money. So he moved this month to Odesa, Ukraine, he said, and expects to deliver a single motorbike soon.
Examples of wasted money in the hands of well-intentioned people are common. Mriya Aid, a group led by an active-duty Canadian lieutenant colonel, spent around $100,000 from donors on high-tech U.S.-style night-vision devices. They ended up being less-effective Chinese models, internal documents show.
“We experienced a problem with the night vision,” said Lubomyr Chabursky, a volunteer on Mriya Aid’s leadership team. But he said the purchase represented only 2% of the aid the group had provided.
Earlier this year, the Mozart Group, which two former Marines established to help Ukraine, disbanded after one sued the other, alleging theft and harassment.
Absent Paper Trail
Last spring, a volunteer group called Ripley’s Heroes said it spent approximately $63,000 on night-vision and thermal optics. Some of the equipment was subject to American export restrictions because, in the wrong hands, it could give enemies a battlefield advantage.
Front-line volunteers said Ripley’s delivered the equipment to Ukraine without required documentation listing the actual buyers and recipients. Recently, federal authorities began investigating the shipments, U.S. officials said.
In his defense, the group’s founder, a retired U.S. Marine named Lt. Col. Hunter Ripley Rawlings IV, provided deal documents to the Times. But those records show that, just as the volunteers said, Ripley’s was not disclosed to the State Department as the buyer.
Ripley’s says it has raised over $1 million, some of it thanks to the former Connecticut contractor, Vasquez, who claimed to be the group’s chief strategy officer and promoted Ripley’s to his online audience.
Ripley’s spent around $25,000 on remote-control reconnaissance cars last year, but they never arrived, shipping records show. Rawlings said Polish authorities held them up over legal concerns.
Rawlings has said that his group is awaiting American nonprofit status. But he has not revealed his spending or proof of a nonprofit application to the Times or to donors who have asked. So it is not clear where the money is going. “I believed these guys,” said Shaun Stants, who said he organized a fundraiser in October in Pittsburgh but was never shown the financial records he asked for. “And they took me for a fool.”
Corporate records in Poland and the U.S. show that Rawlings also started a for-profit company called Iron Forge. In an interview, he said he expected his charity and others to pay Iron Forge for transportation, meaning donor money would be used to finance his private venture. But he said no conflict of interest existed because Iron Forge would ultimately send money back to the charities. Details are being worked out, he said.
In the days after the Times approached Vasquez and others, members of the squabbling groups — Ripley’s, the Legion, the dissident Legion members and more — escalated their feud. They accused one another of misappropriating funds and lying about their credentials.
After a former ally turned on Vasquez, Nance came to his defense.
“James was NOT fake, he was troubled,” Nance said on Twitter. “He did a lot for Ukraine but has challenges to face.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fund raising; Military service; Weapons; Intelligence gathering; Donations; Military technology; Reality programming; Military intelligence; Volunteers; Military personnel; Armed forces

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

Location: Connecticut; Russia; New York; United States--US; Iraq; Iran; Kuwait; Kyiv Ukraine; Pakistan; Ukraine

Identifier / keyword: House Of Representatives; Msnbc; Greensboro (Nc); Pentagon Building; New Group Theater Co; Mozart Group Llc; Firearms; Washington (Dc); New York Times; United States; Automobile Safety Features And Defects; Ukraine; Reality Television; Linkedin Corporation; Defense Contracts; Canada; International Trade And World Market; Georgia; Philanthropy; Liver; Georgia (Georgian Republic); Politics And Government; Kuwait; Automobiles; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Nonprofit Organizations; Embezzlement; Santa Barbara (Calif); Espionage And Intelligence Services; Fugitives; Iran; Europe; Embargoes And Sanctions; Social Media; Washington (Ga); Washington (Conn); Do It Yourself; North Carolina; Defense And Military Forces; Ohio; Defense Department; Threats And Threatening Messages; United States Politics And Government; Connecticut; Discrimination; Forgery; Poland; Lying; Actors And Actresses; World; Frauds And Swindling; International Relations; News And News Media; Federal Budget (Us); Twitter; Volunteers And Community Service; Pakistan; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Kyiv (Ukraine); Motorcycles, Motor Bikes And Motorscooters; Illegal Immigration; United States Navy; Irons And Ironing Boards; United States Marine Corps; United States Defense And Military Forces; Civilian Casualties; Newspapers; Remote Control Systems; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Afghanistan; Bucha (Ukraine); Russia; Defectors (Political); Television; Virginia; Reserves (Military); Australia; Gun Control; Afghanistan War (2001 ); Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Iraq; Paper Trail (Rhineback, Ny, Retailer); Moscow (Russia); Odessa (Ukraine); September 11 (2001); Appointments And Executive Changes; Terrorism; Biden, Joseph R Jr; United States Army; Conflicts Of Interest

Title: Stolen Valor: The U.S. Volunteers in Ukraine Who Lie, Waste and Bicker

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 25, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-25T16:46:11Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2790419042

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stolen-valor-u-s-volunteers-ukraine-who-lie-waste/docview/2790419042/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

When Content Creation Goes In-House: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Margolies, Jane

Publication info: Margolies, Jane. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-content-creation-goes-house/docview/2789044229/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Businesses are spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to add in-house production and broadcast facilities to their offices.
Ann Duskus and Vicky Vuong, sneaker artists in San Francisco, met on Instagram early in the pandemic, a time when Ms. Duskus was giving Zoom classes on topics like how to take apart a Nike Air Force 1 basketball shoe and Ms. Vuong was gaining a following for embellishing footwear with paint, embroidery and fake pearls.
When they decided to rent an office together in 2021, they equipped it to function not only as a workshop for making their creations but also as a camera-ready studio for giving online classes, taking product shots and recording unboxing videos.
"We make the shoes. We make content," said Ms. Vuong, whose company is Cestlavic.
Americans threw themselves into producing photos, videos and podcasts for social media during the homebound portions of the pandemic. Now, as workers return to the office, businesses are turning into content creators. And many are adding in-house production and broadcast facilities to pull it off.
Companies are spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to outfit office space with acoustical paneling, lighting rigs and recording equipment, and some are building broadcast studios modeled on the ones news stations use.
Media companies have long had such facilities, of course. And it's no surprise that social media companies have them, too. YouTube and TikTok built studios in their Manhattan offices where top creators can make videos.
But now firms in a wide variety of industries -- even ones not known for being trendy, like banking -- are getting in on the act. In the process, some are saving millions of dollars that they would have spent for others to create content for them.
"A significant portion of the business world is engaged on some level with content creation," said Gabe Marans, a vice chairman at the real estate services company Savills, which recently added a soundproofed studio in its New York office. Mr. Marans has used the space himself to make podcasts and videos that he has posted on LinkedIn, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
"It's a new frontier," he added.
In the past, many companies farmed out content creation to production studios or creative shops. But the pandemic forced them to rely on their own devices, even if the results were not quite as polished. And the widespread embrace of social media -- Americans spend more than two hours a day on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and other platforms, according to recent data -- gave rise to the idea that everyone and anyone can be a creator.
Then, too, there is the speed at which content is consumed these days -- often there's just not enough time to outsource the task.
"It's important to do this on the fly," said Michelle Cleverdon, a vice president in the workplace advisory practice at Colliers, the commercial real estate brokerage firm.
The National Hockey League acquired that agility when it set up a 600-square-foot broadcast studio in its new headquarters in Midtown Manhattan. The space, created with the help of TPG Architecture and other designers and fabricators, is lined with LED screens and light-box arrays that can be programmed to, say, orange, if the Philadelphia Flyers happen to be visiting, or red, when the Carolina Hurricanes arrive.
Staffed by a content creation team that in recent years grew to more than 60 employees, from just a handful, and equipped with 18 routable monitors, four robotic cameras and a control room that can seat 12, the studio has enabled the league to start programs on YouTube such as the magazine show "NHL Mash-Up" and the gambling show "NHL Puckline." A so-called whisper room for audio mixing was just added to the facility.
"We changed the philosophy of the entire business to be more media- and entertainment- and content-oriented," said Steve Mayer, the chief content officer and senior executive vice president for the N.H.L.
The language-learning app Duolingo -- which turned its mascot, a plush, green owl, into a TikTok sensation and invited social media influencers to a "Creator Day" last year -- added a production studio when it recently expanded its headquarters in Pittsburgh. The space has enabled executives to give television interviews without traveling to a network's facilities, and the company has been doing its quarterly earnings calls as webcasts from the studio.
But the addition of an in-house studio by a national sports league or an educational tech company is one thing. Perhaps more surprising are the many financial firms that are building podcast rooms -- sometimes called content rooms -- even if some are not quite sure what they're going to do with the new spaces.
"It's a trial thing for them," said Lisa Lombardy, a studio creative director at TPG, which has been designing lounge spaces in offices where companies can host guests for recorded round-table discussions. "They're trying to figure out how this is going to work for them."
Citizens Bank still does business with outside creative agencies but recently set up a production suite in a new building designed by SGA in Westwood, Mass. The setup includes a photo studio with a curved white wall that functions as a seamless backdrop -- good for taking staff headshots -- and two video studios with motorized blue and green backdrops and a video-editing area. A recent addition: a podcast room with a sound booth used to record voice-overs, animations and in-store announcements for the bank's retail branches in supermarkets.
Truist, another banking company, went all out on a 5,000-square-foot production and broadcast studio at its headquarters in Charlotte, N.C., created with the assistance of architects at Perkins & Will and some lighting and acoustical consultants.
The space has a newscaster-style desk in front of a backdrop made of movable light boxes with LED backlights that can be changed to display photos or the company's logo, depending on the segment being filmed. There are editing bays for postproduction work, a makeup area and a green room. The studio's staff is part of an in-house creative agency.
Most of the 200 or so videos made in the studio last year were for internal use, with the occasional social media post thrown in -- like one the company quickly pulled together and posted on LinkedIn to celebrate National Intern Day. Truist expects to do more social posts in the years to come, said Vinoo Vijay, the bank's chief marketing officer.
Mr. Vijay declined to disclose how much the studio cost to build, but he did say the company had saved $ 3.5 million that it would have had to pay outside agencies to create content.
Such sophisticated studios often require additional electrical power to operate the lighting rigs and other equipment and, because the machinery heats up, supplemental air-conditioning. Costs for creating these spaces can range from $ 250 per square foot to well over twice that, real estate experts say.
Ms. Duskus and Ms. Vuong, the sneaker artists, did not have that kind of budget -- or even room for a separate studio in their 350-square-foot work space.
But with help from the commercial arm of the furniture company Room & Board, they picked out pieces that would be practical and look good on camera. Ms. Vuong, for example, was initially drawn to white marble for her desktop, but when a Room & Board expert advised her that glare on the hard, shiny surface might be an issue when video lights were on, she opted for wood instead.
The studio has worked out so well that the artists have been experimenting with a podcast in which they discuss issues they face running their footwear businesses.
The only problem is that their recordings sometimes pick up loud noises from the metal shop on the floor below their studio. But they just try to accept the "audio challenges" that come with their space, said Ms. Duskus, whose company is Studio Duskus.
"Sometimes getting it done is better than getting it perfect," she added.
Photograph Ann Duskus, left, and Vicky Vuong are sneaker artists who equipped their office with a studio for giving online classes, taking product shots and recording unboxing videos. Ms. Duskus photographing a pair of custom shoes, center left. "We make the shoes. We make content," Ms. Vuong said, working in the studio, below left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KELSEY McCLELLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The National Hockey League's studio in New York, left. Citizens Bank's in-house production setup, center. Truist's broadcast and production studio, right, saved $ 3.5 million in content-creation fees, according to its chief marketing officer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MELYNDA PILON/NHL IMAGES; ROBERT BENSON; HALKIN/MASON PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Artists; Athletic shoes; Video recordings; Shoes & boots; Pandemics; Social networks; Alliances; Corporate headquarters; Architecture; Podcasts; Digital broadcasting; Recording equipment; Ice hockey; Professional hockey; Banking

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Corporate headquarters Architecture Banking

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Room & Board; NAICS: 449110; Name: National Hockey League; NAICS: 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/21/business/office-production-studios-content-creation.html

Title: When Content Creation Goes In-House:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 22, 2023

column: Square Feet

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2789044229

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-content-creation-goes-house/docview/2789044229/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Business of A.I.-Based Hiring Is No Sure Thing: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lohr, Steve

Publication info: Lohr, Steve. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/business-i-based-hiring-is-no-sure-thing/docview/2785990367/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In 2016, two computer scientists, both Google alumni, bet that artificial intelligence could help make smarter hiring and promotion decisions.
The company they founded, Eightfold AI, grew cautiously in its first few years. But it hit the accelerator after it raised $ 220 million in 2021, the pandemic boom year for venture investment, bringing the company's funding to more than $ 400 million.
The Silicon Valley start-up's staff increased to 630 at its peak last year from 140 before the pandemic. Revenue grew 100 percent a year.
But things changed abruptly in the second half of last year. Growth slowed and investors demanded belt-tightening. Eightfold laid off about 90 people last month, nearly 15 percent of its work force. And the business is an imminent target for government regulators from New York City to the European Union.
Eightfold's experience offers insight into the potential and the challenge of applying A.I. to high-stakes decisions like hiring, promoting and charting career paths for workers. The company is at the forefront of using A.I. and data to assess a person's potential for success in a job. That assessment is based on measuring skills and experience rather than on university degrees or personal connections.
The skills-based perspective has been embraced by labor market and policy experts as a vehicle for broadening opportunity in America, especially for the nearly two-thirds of workers who do not have four-year college degrees. Screening by degrees hits minority workers particularly hard, eliminating 72 percent of Black adults and 79 percent of Latino adults, compared with 58 percent of non-Hispanic white adults.
A.I. optimists say the technology, by harnessing data and clever algorithms, can make hiring fairer and more diverse. Skeptics say the technology is unproven and may just automate past discrimination in new ways.
A New York law, which is scheduled to take effect next month, will require companies using A.I. hiring software to notify job candidates that an automated system is being used and to have the technology checked for bias by independent auditors.
Europe's Artificial Intelligence Act, which would regulate A.I. tools according to their potential to create harm and which is expected to be enacted this year, has hiring on its list of "high-risk applications."
Ashutosh Garg, a founder and the chief executive of Eightfold, views the workplace as fertile ground for A.I. As an engineer at Google and then as one of the founders of an e-commerce software company, he spent much of his career building models to predict what a person might buy or view next.
The same concept, Mr. Garg figured, could be used to predict what job a person might be well suited for and career paths, based on the skills an individual possesses.
To do it well would require lots of data on workers, jobs and careers, and powerful A.I. algorithms. Varun Kacholia, a computer scientist who worked at Google and Facebook, agreed, and became a founder and the chief technology officer of Eightfold.
The company began by assembling data, the fuel for A.I. analysis. Today, by pulling information off the web and paying for proprietary data, Eightfold has amassed a data trove of 1.5 million skill sets and 1.5 billion worker profiles, in 20 languages.
Eightfold's software is typically the matching engine behind a company's hiring and career website. A candidate uploads a résumé or link to a LinkedIn profile, and the software returns a few roles it has determined to be good matches. A company recruiter can search by job and be shown a list of strong candidates, with the technology often sifting hundreds down to a half-dozen or so.
Eightfold's A.I. can also show both the candidate and the recruiter skills that a person lacks but might be able to acquire with a short course online.
The Vodafone Group, a British-based multinational telecommunications company, began using Eightfold's software at the beginning of 2022. Vodafone is seeking to expand its digitally skilled work force and to hire more women. Job candidates are shown a notification that explains how their data will be used, and they have to opt in to be considered.
Last year, Vodafone hired 19 percent more women and reduced the average time to hire candidates by 58 percent, said Marc Starfield, the company's head of human resources. "For me, skills are the new currency," Mr. Starfield said. "A.I. is a different and broader mechanism to understand skills."
Micron, a big computer chip maker, is also emphasizing skills-focused hiring as it expands, encouraged by the billions of dollars in government money pledged to shore up American semiconductor manufacturing. Micron plans to hire up to 9,000 workers for a new factory complex near Syracuse, N.Y., and add 2,000 workers in Boise, Idaho.
The company is using the Eightfold software to broaden the pool of good candidates for its factory and manager jobs. Military veterans, for example, may lack college degrees but have acquired skills like team leadership and how to operate costly, high-tech machines, said Britt Thomas, Micron's global director for talent and innovation.
Micron also turned on an Eightfold feature called "anonymous résumé," removing the last name, gender and address of job applicants. The feature is intended to reduce bias in selecting candidates.
The A.I. technology has improved Micron's hiring practices at times, Ms. Thomas said, calling it "extremely beneficial." But the company has not systematically measured the technology's effectiveness.
Forty-two percent of enterprises with 5,000 employees or more use A.I. tools, according to a survey last year by the Society for Human Resource Management.
Nearly two-thirds use the technology to screen out candidates deemed unqualified, while 38 percent deploy A.I. software to match candidates to jobs and rank them. And 46 percent said they would like more information and resources to identify bias when using A.I.
More information, some A.I. experts say, is needed. But so are rules, like clear notifications and independent audits.
The tech vendors, they say, should have to show how their software selects candidates. There should also be a requirement, they say, for empirical evidence, similar to the randomized control trials that determine a drug's effectiveness.
"Unless you have proof that the tool works, you should not use it," said Julia Stoyanovich, an associate professor and the director of the Center for Responsible AI at New York University.
Mr. Garg said he resisted layoffs for months, waiting to see if the outlook might improve. "But the market is not recovering," Mr. Garg said. "And there is a lot of uncertainty."
Cutting costs to shorten the company's timeline for profitability, he said, was essential to appease investors and possibly sell shares to the public in a few years. "We have to be aligned with what the public markets want," Mr. Garg said.
Eightfold, Mr. Garg insisted, still has a bright future, with good customers and plenty of money in the bank. By reducing expenses, the payroll cuts, Mr. Garg said, "bought us time and freedom" to build a business that is both sizable and profitable.
Though more slowly, Eightfold is still growing. New customers include Morgan Stanley, Starbucks, Chevron and Bayer, and more than 100 companies use Eightfold's software. That, Mr. Garg said, "gives me confidence this technology can work and is working."
Eightfold has set up an ethics council of outside advisers "to make sure we are putting enough safeguards in place in our company," Mr. Garg said.
Eightfold, he said, supports regulation like the notification and auditing requirements in the New York City law, as long as it is flexible enough to accommodate fast-changing technology. And while his company's software winnows candidates, Mr. Garg emphasizes that it is meant to be a helper. A human should decide.
Still, doubts persist. More data alone does not guarantee better results, A.I. experts say. Past bias needs to be scrubbed out. There are real challenges with measuring more subjective attributes like "interpersonal skills," "presentation skills" and "can work under pressure," or with measuring what skills and past experience actually determine success in a job.
Great care, they say, needs to be taken in the murky detail work of data collection, data cleaning and data curation. If not, the A.I. will founder.
"The spirit of skills-based hiring is absolutely the right direction," said Andrea Jones-Rooy, a professor at the N.Y.U. Center for Data Science. "But there are a lot of questions about how to do it well and fairly."
Photograph Eightfold AI raised $ 220 million in 2021, and its staff grew to 630. But last year, investors demanded belt-tightening. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANASTASIIA SAPON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Eightfold AI's founders, Varun Kacholia, left, and Ashutosh Garg. Eightfold has set up an ethics council of outside advisers "to make sure we are putting enough safeguards in place in our company," Mr. Garg said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANASTASIIA SAPON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

ERIC Subject: Personnel Selection; Job Applicants; Interpersonal Competence; Ethics; Career Pathways; Artificial Intelligence; Labor Force; Computer Software; Minicourses; Algorithms

Subject: Software; Workers; Hiring; Careers; Artificial intelligence; Employment; Pandemics; Algorithms; Automation; Candidates; State laws; Bias; Academic degrees; Skills

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Hiring Careers Artificial intelligence Employment Automation

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: Vodafone Group PLC; NAICS: 517112

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/12/business/ai-hiring-jobs.html

Title: The Business of A.I.-Based Hiring Is No Sure Thing:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 13, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785990367

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/business-i-based-hiring-is-no-sure-thing/docview/2785990367/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 13, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An AI Startup Boomed, but Now It Faces a Slowing Economy and New Rules

Author: Lohr, Steve

Publication info: Lohr, Steve. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ai-startup-boomed-now-faces-slowing-economy-new/docview/2785991200/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In 2016, two computer scientists, both Google alumni, bet that artificial intelligence could help make smarter hiring and promotion decisions.
The company they founded, Eightfold AI, grew cautiously in its first few years. But it hit the accelerator after it raised $220 million in 2021, the pandemic boom year for venture investment, bringing the company’s funding to more than $400 million.
The Silicon Valley startup’s staff increased to 630 at its peak last year from 140 before the pandemic. Revenue grew 100% a year.
But things changed abruptly in the second half of last year. Growth slowed and investors demanded belt-tightening. Eightfold laid off about 90 people last month, nearly 15% of its workforce. And the business is an imminent target for government regulators from New York City to the European Union.
Eightfold’s experience offers insight into the potential and the challenge of applying AI to high-stakes decisions such as hiring, promoting and charting career paths for workers. The company is at the forefront of using AI and data to assess a person’s potential for success in a job. That assessment is based on measuring skills and experience rather than on university degrees or personal connections.
The skills-based perspective has been embraced by labor market and policy experts as a vehicle for broadening opportunity in America, especially for the nearly two-thirds of workers who do not have four-year college degrees. Screening by degrees hits minority workers particularly hard, eliminating 72% of Black adults and 79% of Latino adults, compared with 58% of non-Hispanic white adults.
AI optimists say the technology, by harnessing data and clever algorithms, can make hiring fairer and more diverse. Skeptics say the technology is unproven and may just automate past discrimination in new ways.
A New York law, which is scheduled to take effect next month, will require companies using AI hiring software to notify job candidates that an automated system is being used and to have the technology checked for bias by independent auditors.
Europe’s Artificial Intelligence Act, which would regulate AI tools according to their potential to create harm and which is expected to be enacted this year, has hiring on its list of “high-risk applications.”
Ashutosh Garg, a founder and CEO of Eightfold, views the workplace as fertile ground for AI. As an engineer at Google and then as one of the founders of an e-commerce software company, he spent much of his career building models to predict what a person might buy or view next.
The same concept, Garg figured, could be used to predict what job a person might be well suited for and career paths, based on the skills an individual possesses.
To do it well would require lots of data on workers, jobs and careers, and powerful AI algorithms. Varun Kacholia, a computer scientist who worked at Google and Facebook, agreed, and became a founder and the chief technology officer of Eightfold.
The company began by assembling data, the fuel for AI analysis. Today, by pulling information off the web and paying for proprietary data, Eightfold has amassed a data trove of 1.5 million skill sets and 1.5 billion worker profiles, in 20 languages.
Eightfold’s software is typically the matching engine behind a company’s hiring and career website. A candidate uploads a résumé or link to a LinkedIn profile, and the software returns a few roles it has determined to be good matches. A company recruiter can search by job and be shown a list of strong candidates, with the technology often sifting hundreds down to a half-dozen or so.
Eightfold’s AI can also show both the candidate and the recruiter skills that a person lacks but might be able to acquire with a short course online.
The Vodafone Group, a British-based multinational telecommunications company, began using Eightfold’s software at the beginning of 2022. Vodafone is seeking to expand its digitally skilled workforce and to hire more women. Job candidates are shown a notification that explains how their data will be used, and they have to opt in to be considered.
Last year, Vodafone hired 19% more women and reduced the average time to hire candidates by 58%, said Marc Starfield, the company’s head of human resources. “For me, skills are the new currency,” Starfield said. “AI is a different and broader mechanism to understand skills.”
Micron, a big computer chipmaker, is also emphasizing skills-focused hiring as it expands, encouraged by the billions of dollars in government money pledged to shore up American semiconductor manufacturing. Micron plans to hire up to 9,000 workers for a new factory complex near Syracuse, New York, and add 2,000 workers in Boise, Idaho.
The company is using the Eightfold software to broaden the pool of good candidates for its factory and manager jobs. Military veterans, for example, may lack college degrees but have acquired skills such as team leadership and how to operate costly, high-tech machines, said Britt Thomas, Micron’s global director for talent and innovation.
Micron also turned on an Eightfold feature called “anonymous résumé,” removing the last name, gender and address of job applicants. The feature is intended to reduce bias in selecting candidates.
The AI technology has improved Micron’s hiring practices at times, Thomas said, calling it “extremely beneficial.” But the company has not systematically measured the technology’s effectiveness.
Forty-two percent of enterprises with 5,000 employees or more use AI tools, according to a survey last year by the Society for Human Resource Management.
Nearly two-thirds use the technology to screen out candidates deemed unqualified, while 38% deploy AI software to match candidates to jobs and rank them. And 46% said they would like more information and resources to identify bias when using AI.
More information, some AI experts say, is needed. But so are rules, such as clear notifications and independent audits.
The tech vendors, they say, should have to show how their software selects candidates. There should also be a requirement, they say, for empirical evidence, similar to the randomized control trials that determine a drug’s effectiveness.
“Unless you have proof that the tool works, you should not use it,” said Julia Stoyanovich, an associate professor and the director of the Center for Responsible AI at New York University.
Garg said he resisted layoffs for months, waiting to see if the outlook might improve. “But the market is not recovering,” Garg said. “And there is a lot of uncertainty.”
Cutting costs to shorten the company’s timeline for profitability, he said, was essential to appease investors and possibly sell shares to the public in a few years. “We have to be aligned with what the public markets want,” Garg said.
Eightfold, Garg insisted, still has a bright future, with good customers and plenty of money in the bank. By reducing expenses, the payroll cuts, he said, “bought us time and freedom” to build a business that is both sizable and profitable.
Though more slowly, Eightfold is still growing. New customers include Morgan Stanley, Starbucks, Chevron and Bayer, and more than 100 companies use Eightfold’s software. That, Garg said, “gives me confidence this technology can work and is working.”
Eightfold has set up an ethics council of outside advisers “to make sure we are putting enough safeguards in place in our company,” he said.
Eightfold, he said, supports regulation such as the notification and auditing requirements in the New York City law, as long as it is flexible enough to accommodate fast-changing technology. And while his company’s software winnows candidates, Garg emphasizes that it is meant to be a helper. A human should decide.
Still, doubts persist. More data alone does not guarantee better results, AI experts say. Past bias needs to be scrubbed out. There are real challenges with measuring more subjective attributes such as “interpersonal skills,” “presentation skills” and “can work under pressure,” or with measuring what skills and past experience actually determine success in a job.
Great care, they say, needs to be taken in the murky detail work of data collection, data cleaning and data curation. If not, the AI will founder.
“The spirit of skills-based hiring is absolutely the right direction,” said Andrea Jones-Rooy, a professor at the NYU Center for Data Science. “But there are a lot of questions about how to do it well and fairly.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Personnel Selection; Electronic Equipment; Job Applicants; Interpersonal Competence; Career Pathways; Artificial Intelligence; Computer Software; Minicourses; Algorithms; Labor Force

Subject: Software; Workers; Hiring; Careers; Artificial intelligence; Startups; Employment; Pandemics; Algorithms; Automation; Candidates; State laws; Bias; Academic degrees; Skills

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Hiring Careers Artificial intelligence Startups Employment Automation

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: Vodafone Group PLC; NAICS: 517112

Identifier / keyword: Business; Lohr, Steve; Morgan Stanley; European Union; Society For Human Resource Management; Starbucks Corporation; Chevron Corporation; Linkedin Corporation; Boise (Idaho); Great Britain; Idaho; Bayer Ag; Syracuse (Ny); New York Times; New York University; Europe; Micron Technology Inc; New York City; Google Inc; Vodafone Group Plc; Garg, Ashutosh; Eighfold Inc; Human Resources; Data Mining And Database Marketing; Careers And Professions; Black People; Workplace Environment; Hispanic Americans; Wages And Salaries; Accidents And Safety; Minorities; Politics And Government; International Relations; Factories And Manufacturing; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Venture Capital; Labor And Jobs; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Start Ups; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Discrimination; Hiring And Promotion; Computers And The Internet

Title: An AI Startup Boomed, but Now It Faces a Slowing Economy and New Rules

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-12 @ 23:06

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785991200

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ai-startup-boomed-now-faces-slowing-economy-new/docview/2785991200/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What Business Executives Really Mean: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Gallogly, Nell

Publication info: Gallogly, Nell. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-business-executives-really-mean/docview/2785847651/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Shop Talk examines the business jargon used by executives to elevate ordinary functions and conceal ugly truths.
/Shop Talk/
A column in The New York Times Sunday Business section that explores the hidden meaning of business jargon.
Perusing LinkedIn might not seem like the typical way to spend your downtime. But for Lora Kelley, a New York Times business reporting fellow interested in the ways business shapes culture, the platform is a gold mine for reporting ideas.
One evening last fall, Ms. Kelley came across a term that left her scratching her head: dogfooding. She had found gold. It was precisely the type of business jargon that Shop Talk, a column in The Times's Sunday Business section, was created last year to define. Ms. Kelley pursued the meaning of the term and learned that it was used by business executives at high-power tech firms such as Meta and Asana to refer to the banal practice of product testing.
"Business jargon has always existed," said Veronica Majerol, the editor of Shop Talk. Journalists, she added, typically edit articles to avoid jargon that doesn't elicit meaning to readers. In conceiving of the column, Ms. Majerol said she, along with other editors, reporters and designers, wondered, "What if the jargon could become the story itself?"
Since October, Shop Talk has explored the usage of terms like dogfooding, "friendshoring" and "trendjacked," and examined why they catch on. By revealing how the people in business talk about business, the team hopes to help readers understand the cultural forces that shape large companies.
The column, which runs every two weeks, is open to all reporters who encounter unusual words and idioms on their beats. Last month, for example, Niraj Chokshi, who covers the airline industry, defined "completion factor" as an industry term for the percentage of flights an airline does not cancel. In the most recent Shop Talk column, the Culture reporter Brooks Barnes walked readers through a "four quadrant," a movie that appeals to young and old, men and women alike.
Jordyn Holman, who covers retail for The Times, said she was constantly translating jargon in her head while reporting. Last fall, Ms. Holman noticed the trend of retailers dubbing their customers anything but customers. At Target, they were called "guests." At Sephora, they were "clients." And at Dick's Sporting Goods, they were "athletes."
Why go to such great lengths to find a new label for a customer? To engender loyalty, Ms. Holman found. By calling customers something personal, retailers thought shoppers would feel special. "As reporters we want to say: 'This is what they're actually saying,' " she said.
While decoding phrases, reporters are also reading between the lines to find what executives are trying not to say. For example, a high "completion factor" sounds nice, but it doesn't account for flight delays. Ms. Kelley's jargon radar sounded when she read a LinkedIn post written by an executive announcing layoffs at her company. The executive used the term "go forward" to describe a specific pool of employees. Ms. Kelley understood the euphemism: the employees "going forward" were spared from layoffs.
"Language can be a tool for keeping things opaque to outsiders," Ms. Kelley said. "This column is one way to show people what's going on inside a closed off world."
Business idioms are often made up and coded within a specific industry, and it's a challenge to produce a definition of a term that can't be found in the dictionary. To arrive at a consensus, journalists scan the web, news releases and company reports for mentions of the word or phrase, as well as interview employees, experts and academic authorities on various industries.
"We want to find people using the term in the wild," Ms. Kelley said.
Decoding jargon isn't just a written effort, though. Ms. Majerol and Minh Uong, Shop Talk's art director, work with illustrators to help bring each term to life visually. The column's illustrations "do not just describe the word, but put it in context through a visual situation," Mr. Uong said.
To illustrate "completion factor," Mr. Uong and Ms. Majerol decided on an illustration of a contrail shaped like a smiley face. After all, any traveler can relate to the joy of a flight gone right, Mr. Uong said.
And if you're stuck in a frustrating delay, you'll know that the airline is still counting on a completion.
Readers can nominate a word or term by writing to shoptalk@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Employees; Layoffs; Product testing; Reporters; Terminology; Airlines

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Layoffs Product testing Airlines

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Sunday Business; NAICS: 513110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/11/insider/a-column-that-listens-for-whats-not-being-said.html

Title: What Business Executives Really Mean:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

column: Times Insider

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785847651

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-business-executives-really-mean/docview/2785847651/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2024-12-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Santos Tied To a Scheme With A.T.M.s: [National Desk]

Author: Gold, Michael; Ashford, Grace

Publication info: Gold, Michael; Ashford, Grace. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/santos-tied-scheme-with-t-m-s/docview/2785551090/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The former roommate, who pleaded guilty in 2017 and was deported, sent an affidavit to federal authorities accusing Mr. Santos of running a card-skimming operation.
In April 2017, the Seattle police arrested a Brazilian man they had caught installing a card-skimming machine on an A.T.M. near the famed Pike Place Market. As officers investigated, they connected the man to a Florida address where he once lived with George Santos, now a Republican congressman from New York.
The man, Gustavo Ribeiro Trelha, pleaded guilty to a federal fraud charge in the case and was ultimately deported to Brazil. Mr. Santos was not implicated or charged, but he later told a lawyer that he had been questioned by the Seattle police, and he flew across the country to testify at a bail hearing on Mr. Trelha's behalf.
On Wednesday, Mr. Trelha sought to drastically change the narrative of the case. In an affidavit that he submitted to the federal authorities, he accused Mr. Santos of leading the operation and said the two had agreed to split the profits in half. Mr. Trelha contended that he had not disclosed this previously because Mr. Santos had threatened his friends.
"I am coming forward today to declare that the person in charge of the crime of credit card fraud when I was arrested was George Santos/Anthony Devolder," Mr. Trelha wrote in his statement, which was first reported by Politico and sent to the F.B.I., the Secret Service and the U.S. attorney's office in Brooklyn.
Mr. Santos, who at times has used his middle name, Anthony, and his mother's last name, Devolder, characterized the accusation as just the "newest insanity," writing on Twitter on Thursday that the claims were "categorically false."
He added that he would "entertain sitting down" and discussing Mr. Trelha's accusations with "any news organization willing to do good journalism." A spokeswoman in Mr. Santos's House office did not respond to a request for an interview.
Mr. Santos has acknowledged his past ties to Mr. Trelha. According to a recording published by Politico, he flew to Seattle to testify on Mr. Trelha's behalf at a bail hearing, saying the two were "family friends."
It was unclear whether federal officials would examine Mr. Trelha's allegations. A spokesman for the Secret Service said the agency had received the declaration but declined further comment. A spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Brooklyn declined to comment.
Mr. Santos, a Republican who represents parts of Long Island and Queens, is already facing inquiries from federal and local prosecutors in the wake of reporting by The New York Times that revealed that he had falsified parts of his background and work experience during his campaign, and that found significant irregularities in his campaign's fund-raising and spending practices.
Prosecutors in Brazil have also revived a criminal case against him in which he admitted to check fraud in 2008. He also faced theft charges in Pennsylvania in 2017 over bad checks he wrote to dog breeders, although the case was later dismissed and expunged, according to a lawyer who assisted Mr. Santos at the time.
The charges were dropped after Mr. Santos's lawyer told law enforcement authorities that his checkbook had been stolen and that he believed the Pennsylvania episode was tied to a credit-fraud case in Seattle.
The exact nature of Mr. Santos's involvement in the Seattle case is unclear. Although he told the lawyer, Tiffany Bogosian, that he had acted as an informant for the police, Mr. Santos's name does not appear in police or court records.
Seattle police records obtained by The Times show that officers were called to an A.T.M. after a Chase Bank investigator reported seeing footage of a man arriving there for three consecutive days at 6:30 a.m. to install an illegal card-reading device that he would then retrieve later in the evening.
When the police arrived, they found and arrested Mr. Trelha, who had "numerous fraudulent credit cards," a police report said. When officers searched his car, they found empty FedEx packaging with a return address in Winter Park, Fla., an Orlando suburb.
Mr. Santos lived and worked in Orlando briefly. In October 2016, he was issued a ticket in the area for failing to stop at a red light; the summons listed Mr. Santos's address as the Winter Park apartment that was later listed on Mr. Trelha's package.
Mr. Santos's name was not on the FedEx package, and federal court documents and police records do not mention him as being involved in the skimming operation. In court filings, Mr. Trelha said he told the police he was part of a larger operation being run out of Brazil.
But in the declaration he filed this week, Mr. Trelha said Mr. Santos taught him "how to skim card information and how to clone cards." He also said that Mr. Santos had a warehouse in Orlando with the machines and materials necessary to conduct the scheme, and that the two had agreed to split profits equally.
"It didn't work out so well," Mr. Trelha said in the declaration, "because I was arrested."
In the declaration, Mr. Trelha said Mr. Santos later visited him in jail and urged Mr. Trelha not to mention him, then later "threatened" Mr. Trelha's friends in an effort to keep Mr. Trelha quiet. He also said Mr. Santos had stolen money that Mr. Trelha had collected to pay his $ 75,000 bail.
Mr. Trelha told Politico in an interview that he worried Mr. Santos would have his friends in Orlando deported. He said in his affidavit that he wanted to come forward after seeing Mr. Santos on television in recent months.
In the recording of Mr. Trelha's bail hearing, Mr. Santos also told the judge he worked at Goldman Sachs, though, as The Times has reported, he did not.
The lawyer who filed the statement on Mr. Trelha's behalf, Mark Demetropolous, did not respond to messages seeking comment. A call to his office number went to a law firm run by Grant Lally, a one-time Republican congressional candidate who runs a Long Island newspaper that cast some doubt on some of Mr. Santos's claims during his 2022 campaign.
It was not clear how Mr. Demetropolous, who describes himself on LinkedIn as a corporate and tax lawyer, became involved with Mr. Trelha's case.
Rebecca Davis O'Brien contributed reporting.
Rebecca Davis O'Brien contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A14.

Subject: Bail; Bank fraud; Public prosecutors

Business indexing term: Subject: Bank fraud

Location: Pennsylvania; Brazil; New York; United States--US; Long Island New York

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: FedEx Corp; NAICS: 484110, 492110, 551114

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/nyregion/santos-atm-skimming.html

Title: Santos Tied To a Scheme With A.T.M.s:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 0362433 1

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785551090

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/santos-tied-scheme-with-t-m-s/docview/2785551090/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

George Santos Had Role in ATM Fraud Scheme, Former Roommate Says

Author: Gold, Michael; Ashford, Grace

Publication info: Gold, Michael; Ashford, Grace. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-santos-had-role-atm-fraud-scheme-former/docview/2785454350/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In April 2017, the Seattle police arrested a Brazilian man they had caught installing a card-skimming machine on an ATM near the famed Pike Place Market. As officers investigated, they connected the man to a Florida address where he once lived with George Santos, now a Republican congressman from New York.
The man, Gustavo Ribeiro Trelha, pleaded guilty to a federal fraud charge in the case and was ultimately deported to Brazil. Santos was not implicated or charged, but he later told a lawyer that he had been questioned by the Seattle police, and he flew across the country to testify at a bail hearing on Trelha’s behalf.
On Wednesday, Trelha sought to drastically change the narrative of the case. In an affidavit that he submitted to the federal authorities, he accused Santos of leading the operation and said the two had agreed to split the profits in half. Trelha contended that he had not disclosed this previously because Santos had threatened his friends.
“I am coming forward today to declare that the person in charge of the crime of credit card fraud when I was arrested was George Santos/Anthony Devolder,” Trelha wrote in his statement, which was first reported by Politico and sent to the FBI, the Secret Service and the U.S. attorney’s office in Brooklyn.
Santos, who at times has used his middle name, Anthony, and his mother’s last name, Devolder, characterized the accusation as just the “newest insanity,” writing on Twitter on Thursday that the claims were “categorically false.”
He added that he would “entertain sitting down” and discussing Trelha’s accusations with “any news organization willing to do good journalism.” A spokesperson in Santos’ House office did not respond to a request for an interview.
Santos has acknowledged his past ties to Trelha. According to a recording published by Politico, he flew to Seattle to testify on Trelha’s behalf at a bail hearing, saying the two were “family friends.”
It was unclear whether federal officials would examine Trelha’s allegations. A spokesperson for the Secret Service said the agency had received the declaration but declined further comment. A spokesperson for the U.S. attorney’s office in Brooklyn declined to comment.
Santos, a Republican who represents parts of Long Island and Queens, is already facing inquiries from federal and local prosecutors in the wake of reporting by The New York Times that revealed that he had falsified parts of his background and work experience during his campaign, and that found significant irregularities in his campaign’s fundraising and spending practices.
Prosecutors in Brazil have also revived a criminal case against him in which he admitted to check fraud in 2008. He also faced theft charges in Pennsylvania in 2017 over bad checks he wrote to dog breeders, although the case was later dismissed and expunged, according to a lawyer who assisted Santos at the time.
The charges were dropped after Santos’ lawyer told law enforcement authorities that his checkbook had been stolen and that he believed the Pennsylvania episode was tied to a credit-fraud case in Seattle.
The exact nature of Santos’ involvement in the Seattle case is unclear. Although he told the lawyer, Tiffany Bogosian, that he had acted as an informant for the police, Santos’ name does not appear in police or court records.
Seattle police records obtained by the Times show that officers were called to an ATM after a Chase Bank investigator reported seeing footage of a man arriving there for three consecutive days at 6:30 a.m. to install an illegal card-reading device that he would then retrieve later in the evening.
When the police arrived, they found and arrested Trelha, who had “numerous fraudulent credit cards,” a police report said. When officers searched his car, they found empty FedEx packaging with a return address in Winter Park, Florida, an Orlando suburb.
Santos lived and worked in Orlando briefly. In October 2016, he was issued a ticket in the area for failing to stop at a red light; the summons listed Santos’ address as the Winter Park apartment that was later listed on Trelha’s package.
Santos’ name was not on the FedEx package, and federal court documents and police records do not mention him as being involved in the skimming operation. In court filings, Trelha said he told the police he was part of a larger operation being run out of Brazil.
But in the declaration he filed this week, Trelha said Santos taught him “how to skim card information and how to clone cards.” He also said that Santos had a warehouse in Orlando with the machines and materials necessary to conduct the scheme, and that the two had agreed to split profits equally.
“It didn’t work out so well,” Trelha said in the declaration, “because I was arrested.”
In the declaration, Trelha said Santos later visited him in jail and urged Trelha not to mention him, then later “threatened” Trelha’s friends in an effort to keep Trelha quiet. He also said Santos had stolen money that Trelha had collected to pay his $75,000 bail.
Trelha told Politico in an interview that he worried Santos would have his friends in Orlando deported. He said in his affidavit that he wanted to come forward after seeing Santos on television in recent months.
In the recording of Trelha’s bail hearing, Santos also told the judge he worked at Goldman Sachs, though, as the Times has reported, he did not.
The lawyer who filed the statement on Trelha’s behalf, Mark Demetropolous, did not respond to messages seeking comment. A call to his office number went to a law firm run by Grant Lally, a one-time Republican congressional candidate who runs a Long Island newspaper that cast some doubt on some of Santos’ claims during his 2022 campaign.
It was not clear how Demetropolous, who describes himself on LinkedIn as a corporate and tax lawyer, became involved with Trelha’s case. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Bail; Criminal pleas; Bank fraud; Public prosecutors; Criminal investigations

Business indexing term: Subject: Bank fraud

Location: New York; United States--US; Long Island New York; Pennsylvania; Brazil; Florida

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: FedEx Corp; NAICS: 484110, 492110, 551114

Identifier / keyword: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Twitter; New York Times; Linkedin Corporation; Queens (Nyc); House Of Representatives; Pike Place Market; Long Island (Ny); Winter Park (Fla); Fedex Corporation; Pennsylvania; United States; Seattle (Wash); Politico, The; Florida; Orlando (Fla); Republican Party; Brazil; Names, Personal; Elections, House Of Representatives; Legal Profession; Containers And Packaging; Delivery Services; Forgery; Deportation; Campaign Finance; Home Repairs And Improvements; Cloning; Falsification Of Data; Decisions And Verdicts; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Midterm Elections (2022); United States Politics And Government; Roommates; Law And Legislation; Identity Theft; Frauds And Swindling; Automated Teller Machines; Bail; Police; Elections; News And News Media

Title: George Santos Had Role in ATM Fraud Scheme, Former Roommate Says

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 10, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-10 @ 20:04

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785454350

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-santos-had-role-atm-fraud-scheme-former/docview/2785454350/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Perils of Working on the Boss's Pet Project: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/perils-working-on-bosss-pet-project/docview/2784734123/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Big tech companies have long been willing to fund efforts with no obvious payoff. But those groups have been hit hard in recent layoffs.
SEATTLE -- For years, working on a project that didn't make a lot of sense to outsiders but was championed by the boss was a badge of honor for employees at some of the tech industry's biggest companies. Google tried to create augmented reality glasses. Amazon developed its own high-end smartphone. Facebook changed its name to Meta and jumped headlong into the virtual world of the metaverse.
When those projects have fizzled, workers have often slipped into another job at the company. The business usually bore the risk of a failed product or bad idea -- not the employee.
But as tech companies have turned to mass layoffs in recent months, the big bets have increasingly looked like bad bets for holding on to a job. When companies have looked for cuts, they have turned to the groups that could be years from making something that will turn a profit.
At Amazon, the ax fell on teams working on the Alexa voice system, drones and automated stores, all projects championed by Amazon's founder, Jeff Bezos, who no longer runs the company. At Google, it hit ventures like autonomous trucks and other so-called moonshots once championed by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who also no longer run their company.
The shifting economy and executive transitions away from founders have ushered in a new era, and employees wonder: Is their leader marching them to make their mark on the future, or right off a cliff?
That concern has compounded in recent months as tech companies have undertaken their biggest payroll purge in at least 15 years. Boring and profitable has never looked better. And working on the fun idea that may never pay off has never looked so precarious.
"They have all shown they are willing to throw entire squadrons under the bus to cut costs," said Kharis O'Connell, a veteran designer of futuristic products whom Amazon recruited from Google two years ago. He was laid off in November. "If you are not in a profit center, you're kind of screwed."
The scenario is flipped for employees at Meta, which has had significant layoffs this year. Mark Zuckerberg still runs the company he founded, but he wants to take it in a new direction, the metaverse. He had made it clear that employees had better get on board even though Facebook's metaverse plans are probably years from making serious money. A big part of the company has become one of those risky projects.
Mr. Bezos often praised ambitious goals at Amazon, even if they flopped. "If the size of your failures isn't growing, you're not going to be inventing at a size that can actually move the needle," he wrote to investors in 2019.
Working on a "Jeff project" meant facing regular scrutiny, with frequent meetings and updates, according to people who worked on the Fire phone and other priority projects.
But when the phone was killed after tepid consumer reaction, employees were largely redeployed to other projects. Many went on to build Alexa, Mr. Bezos told investors. At one point, more than 20,000 people were employed on the Alexa project. Employees worked hard for it to succeed, but "I don't know anyone in the Alexa org who thinks it will be profitable," said David Anderson, who spent more than a decade at Amazon, including on Alexa devices.
In July 2021, Mr. Bezos handed Amazon's chief executive title to Andy Jassy, who had built and run the company's highly profitable cloud computing division. Mr. Jassy took a hard look at the company's operations and costs. And when the economy started to appear shaky, he had an opportunity to make cuts and reflect his priorities, said Brad Porter, a former Amazon vice president and the founder of Collaborative Robotics.
"What we're trying to do is streamline our costs and a bunch of different areas while, at the same time, making sure that we keep betting on the things that we believe long term could change," Mr. Jassy said at The New York Times's DealBook conference in December.
When just under 2,000 people who worked on Alexa and other devices were laid off late last year, Mr. Anderson posted on LinkedIn that he was unnerved. In the past, if Mr. Bezos proposed a "goofy" idea -- say, "Jeff wants to build robots to take dogs on walks" -- talented engineers would still join, knowing leadership supported the work.
"We always said it was like a start-up," Mr. Anderson wrote, "with zero risk if you failed."
The layoffs, which totaled about 18,000 across Amazon, came with a hiring freeze, limiting options for movement internally. Numerous employees of the company wrote Mr. Anderson that his post had hit a nerve. They told him that they hoped to switch roles internally, he said, and were "never working on one of these crazy projects again."
Still, employees remain excited to work on Amazon's big bets, including satellite internet, health care and driverless taxis, said Brad Glasser, a company spokesman.
"The opportunity to work on projects that are transformative for customers at scale and to build and use cutting-edge technology is the reason many employees join the company and grow their careers here," he said.
Google has long been the poster child for big, offbeat ideas. In 2009, Mr. Page convinced Sebastian Thrun, a Stanford professor, that after the company had conquered the internet, its next feat would be to transform the real world.
Autonomous vehicles were one of several ideas that Google began working on at the secretive division that Mr. Thrun would start, Google X, nicknamed the company's "moonshot factory." Some efforts succeeded, such as Google Brain, an artificial intelligence lab that is now part of the company's research division. Others failed, including Google Glass, augmented reality glasses that attracted ridicule, and Loon, a plan that intended to beam internet from giant balloons but never landed on a business model.
Many of these early projects were hatched by Google's co-founders and their inner circle of advisers, Mr. Thrun said in an interview. "We found the thing to work on and the mountain to climb," he said.
Over the four years Mr. Thrun ran the division, whose name was later shortened to X, he had only one conversation with the finance official assigned to his group, he said, and never spoke to Google's chief financial officer.
When layoffs struck X in January, the unit cleaved all but one member of its strategy team -- the same group that would often note if a project was unlikely to ever make money. Google's parent company, Alphabet, said it would lay off 12,000 employees in total, or 6 percent of its work force. Several moonshots fared worse, with Verily, a health company, slashing 15 percent of its workers and Intrinsic, a robotics arm, downsizing by 20 percent.
Waymo, the self-driving car business run by Alphabet, expected to have a significant business by 2015, Mr. Thrun said. But it still has ride-hailing operations in only Phoenix and San Francisco, and is heading to Los Angeles next.
This year, Alphabet cut workers involved with Waymo's efforts to move freight, which some thought had a more obvious business model than its passenger business. Now Waymo has only a skeleton crew of trucking employees left, after shedding 72 workers in January. Last week, Waymo culled another 137 roles, according to an internal email reviewed by The Times, bringing Waymo's staff cuts to 8 percent this year.
Waymo said it was confident that it had the right teams to succeed, while Google declined to comment.
Even Apple, the most profitable of the tech giants, isn't immune. The company hasn't made sweeping layoffs and generally is more selective in the projects it takes on. In recent years, it has pursued ambitious efforts to develop a mixed-reality headset, an autonomous car and custom mobile chips.
But since beginning its car project in 2015, Apple has revamped its approach several times, and laid off about 200 employees as part of a project overhaul in 2019.
At Meta, employees are trying to keep their jobs safe by following Mr. Zuckerberg to his metaverse. In November, he cut more than 11,000 jobs across the company, or roughly 13 percent, and extended a hiring freeze that was to last through the first quarter of 2023. Internal rumors that more cuts may come in the months ahead abound.
The division that felt the least impact? Reality Labs -- the locus of Mr. Zuckerberg's metaverse efforts.
About 15 months ago, Mr. Zuckerberg went all in on the metaverse and renamed the company Meta. Some insiders were excited. But others were caught off guard by what felt like a near-overnight transformation of the company's roughly 80,000-person work force.
Meta declined to comment.
Many employees had to reapply for jobs responsible for building the metaverse, and working on Mr. Zuckerberg's pet project was widely seen as the fastest way to advance.
But many still question the strategy and are concerned that it will take much longer than the company's predicted 10-year horizon for the technology to improve enough for general use, and longer still for the mainstream to embrace it -- if it does at all.
Workers have found the software that runs Meta's VR platform too buggy. Or just pointless. Last fall, a manager sent a memo urging employees to use the products more regularly.
"Everyone in this organization should make it their mission to fall in love with Horizon Worlds," the manager said in the memo, according to a copy obtained by The Times. "You can't do that without using it."
Karen Weise reported from Seattle, and Nico Grant and Mike Isaac from San Francisco. Tripp Mickle contributed reporting from San Francisco.
Karen Weise reported from Seattle, and Nico Grant and Mike Isaac from San Francisco. Tripp Mickle contributed reporting from San Francisco.
Photograph Amazon's drone delivery business once stirred excitement and was championed by Jeff Bezos, the founder, but lately the team has been subjected to layoffs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER ENDIG/PICTURE-ALLIANCE/DPA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Augmented reality; Internet; Layoffs; Employees; Employment; Alliances; Robotics; Business models

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Employees Employment Business models

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/08/technology/tech-big-bets-layoffs.html

Title: The Perils of Working on the Boss's Pet Project:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2784734123

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/perils-working-on-bosss-pet-project/docview/2784734123/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Perils of Working on a CEO’s Pet Project

Author: Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/perils-working-on-ceo-s-pet-project/docview/2784400031/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SEATTLE — For years, working on a project that didn’t make a lot of sense to outsiders but was championed by the boss was a badge of honor for employees at some of the tech industry’s biggest companies. Google tried to create augmented reality glasses. Amazon developed its own high-end smartphone. Facebook changed its name to Meta and jumped headlong into the virtual world of the metaverse.
When those projects have fizzled, workers have often slipped into another job at the company. The business usually bore the risk of a failed product or bad idea — not the employee.
But as tech companies have turned to mass layoffs in recent months, the big bets have increasingly looked like bad bets for holding on to a job. When companies have looked for cuts, they have turned to the groups that could be years from making something that will turn a profit.
At Amazon, the ax fell on teams working on the Alexa voice system, drones and automated stores — all projects championed by Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, who no longer runs the company. At Google, it hit ventures like autonomous trucks and other so-called moonshots once championed by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who also no longer run their company.
The shifting economy and executive transitions away from founders have ushered in a new era, and employees wonder: Is their leader marching them to make their mark on the future, or right off a cliff?
That concern has compounded in recent months as tech companies have undertaken their biggest payroll purge in at least 15 years. Boring and profitable has never looked better. And working on the fun idea that may never pay off has never looked so precarious.
“They have all shown they are willing to throw entire squadrons under the bus to cut costs,” said Kharis O’Connell, a veteran designer of futuristic products whom Amazon recruited from Google two years ago.
He was laid off in November.
“If you are not in a profit center, you’re kind of screwed,” O’Connell said.
The scenario is flipped for employees at Meta, which has had significant layoffs this year. Mark Zuckerberg still runs the company he founded, but he wants to take it in a new direction, the metaverse. He had made it clear that employees had better get on board even though Facebook’s metaverse plans are probably years from making serious money. A big part of the company has become one of those risky projects.
Bezos often praised ambitious goals at Amazon, even if they flopped.
“If the size of your failures isn’t growing, you’re not going to be inventing at a size that can actually move the needle,” he wrote to investors in 2019.
Working on a “Jeff project” meant facing regular scrutiny, with frequent meetings and updates, according to people who worked on the Fire phone and other priority projects.
But when the phone was killed after tepid consumer reaction, employees were largely redeployed to other projects. Many went on to build Alexa, Bezos told investors. At one point, more than 20,000 people were employed on the Alexa project. Employees worked hard for it to succeed, but “I don’t know anyone in the Alexa org who thinks it will be profitable,” said David Anderson, who spent more than a decade at Amazon, including on Alexa devices.
In July 2021, Bezos handed Amazon’s CEO title to Andy Jassy, who had built and run the company’s highly profitable cloud computing division. Jassy took a hard look at the company’s operations and costs. And when the economy started to appear shaky, he had an opportunity to make cuts and reflect his priorities, said Brad Porter, a former Amazon vice president and the founder of Collaborative Robotics.
“What we’re trying to do is streamline our costs and a bunch of different areas while, at the same time, making sure that we keep betting on the things that we believe long term could change,” Jassy said at The New York Times’ DealBook conference in December.
When just under 2,000 people who worked on Alexa and other devices were laid off late last year, Anderson posted on LinkedIn that he was unnerved. In the past, if Bezos proposed a “goofy” idea — say, “Jeff wants to build robots to take dogs on walks” — talented engineers would still join, knowing leadership supported the work.
“We always said it was like a start-up,” Anderson wrote, “with zero risk if you failed.”
The layoffs, which totaled about 18,000 across Amazon, came with a hiring freeze, limiting options for movement internally. Numerous employees of the company wrote Anderson that his post had hit a nerve. They told him that they hoped to switch roles internally, he said, and were “never working on one of these crazy projects again.”
Still, employees remain excited to work on Amazon’s big bets, including satellite internet, health care and driverless taxis, said Brad Glasser, a company spokesperson.
“The opportunity to work on projects that are transformative for customers at scale and to build and use cutting-edge technology is the reason many employees join the company and grow their careers here,” he said.
Google has long been the poster child for big, offbeat ideas. In 2009, Page convinced Sebastian Thrun, a Stanford professor, that after the company had conquered the internet, its next feat would be to transform the real world.
Autonomous vehicles were one of several ideas that Google began working on at the secretive division that Thrun would start, Google X, nicknamed the company’s “moonshot factory.” Some efforts succeeded, such as Google Brain, an artificial intelligence lab that is now part of the company’s research division. Others failed, including Google Glass, augmented reality glasses that attracted ridicule, and Loon, a plan that intended to beam internet from giant balloons but never landed on a business model.
Many of these early projects were hatched by Google’s co-founders and their inner circle of advisers, Thrun said in an interview.
“We found the thing to work on and the mountain to climb,” he said.
Over the four years that Thrun ran the division, whose name was later shortened to X, he had only one conversation with the finance official assigned to his group, he said, and never spoke to Google’s chief financial officer.
When layoffs struck X in January, the unit cleaved all but one member of its strategy team — the same group that would often note if a project was unlikely to ever make money. Google’s parent company, Alphabet, said it would lay off 12,000 employees in total, or 6% of its workforce. Several moonshots fared worse, with Verily, a health company, slashing 15% of its workers, and Intrinsic, a robotics arm, downsizing by 20%.
Waymo, the self-driving car business run by Alphabet, expected to have a significant business by 2015, Thrun said. But it still has ride-hailing operations in only Phoenix and San Francisco and is heading to Los Angeles next.
This year, Alphabet cut workers involved with Waymo’s efforts to move freight, which some thought had a more obvious business model than its passenger business. Now Waymo has only a skeleton crew of trucking employees left, after shedding 72 workers in January. Last week, Waymo culled another 137 roles, according to an internal email reviewed by The Times, bringing Waymo’s staff cuts to 8% this year.
Waymo said it was confident that it had the right teams to succeed, while Google declined to comment.
Even Apple, the most profitable of the tech giants, isn’t immune. The company hasn’t made sweeping layoffs and generally is more selective in the projects it takes on. In recent years, it has pursued ambitious efforts to develop a mixed-reality headset, an autonomous car and custom mobile chips.
But since beginning its car project in 2015, Apple has revamped its approach several times and laid off about 200 employees as part of a project overhaul in 2019.
At Meta, employees are trying to keep their jobs safe by following Zuckerberg to his metaverse. In November, he cut more than 11,000 jobs across the company, or roughly 13%, and extended a hiring freeze that was to last through the first quarter of 2023. Internal rumors that more cuts may come in the months ahead abound.
The division that felt the least impact? Reality Labs — the locus of Zuckerberg’s metaverse efforts.
About 15 months ago, Zuckerberg went all-in on the metaverse and renamed the company Meta. Some insiders were excited. But others were caught off guard by what felt like a nearly overnight transformation of the company’s roughly 80,000-person workforce.
Meta declined to comment.
Many employees had to reapply for jobs responsible for building the metaverse, and working on Zuckerberg’s pet project was widely seen as the fastest way to advance.
But many still question the strategy and are concerned that it will take much longer than the company’s predicted 10-year horizon for the technology to improve enough for general use, and longer still for the mainstream to embrace it — if it does at all.
Workers have found the software that runs Meta’s VR platform too buggy — or just pointless. Last fall, a manager sent a memo urging employees to use the products more regularly.
“Everyone in this organization should make it their mission to fall in love with Horizon Worlds,” the manager said in the memo, according to a copy obtained by The Times. “You can’t do that without using it.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile shows; Augmented reality; Internet; Layoffs; Employees; Employment; Autonomous vehicles; Alliances; Robotics; Business models

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Employees Employment Business models

Location: New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Business; New York Times; Linkedin Corporation; Los Angeles (Calif); San Francisco (Calif); Google Glass; Stanford University; Phoenix (Ariz); Page, Larry; Brin, Sergey; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Facebook Inc; Waymo; Bezos, Jeffrey P; Alphabet Inc; Jassy, Andrew R; Meta Platforms Inc; Apple Inc; Google Inc; AmazonCom Inc; Cloud Computing; Company Reports; Relocation Of Business; Careers And Professions; Polls And Public Opinion; Metaverse (Internet); Automobiles; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Boredom; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Drones (Pilotless Planes); Workplace Hazards And Violations; Shutdowns (Institutional); Intelligence And Intelligence Tests (Iq); Hiring And Promotion; Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Smartphones; Names, Organizational; Social Media; Augmented Reality (Computers); Wearable Computing; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Labor And Jobs; Television

Title: The Perils of Working on a CEO’s Pet Project

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-08 @ 12:36

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2784400031

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/perils-working-on-ceo-s-pet-project/docview/2784400031/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2782072873/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: AVIATION
No Bonus for Boeing Chief
Over Delays on the 777X
Boeing's chief executive, Dave Calhoun, will not receive a $ 7 million bonus, the company said Friday, because of Boeing's failure to enter the 777X into service by the end of 2023.
Boeing offered Mr. Calhoun the incentive when he replaced Dennis Muilenburg as chief executive in January 2020, requiring that he achieve seven milestones by the end of this year.
Mr. Calhoun took home $ 7 million in pay last year, slightly less than his $ 7.4 million compensation in 2021, Boeing stated in a filing on Friday. His total compensation, which includes long-term incentives that have not yet vested, was $ 22.5 million in 2022, an increase from about $ 21 million the previous year.
In 2022, Boeing confirmed that the first delivery of the wide-body 777X had slipped to 2025, most recently because of a setback in its certification timeline. The plane is a larger version of the original 777 aircraft that has been in development since 2013. REUTERS
TECHNOLOGY
OpenAI Board Member
Exits to Avoid Conflicts
Reid Hoffman, a co-founder of LinkedIn, is leaving the board of OpenAI to avoid conflicts of interest as he backs more artificial intelligence companies, he said in an online post on Friday.
Mr. Hoffman, who has invested in and advised OpenAI since the artificial intelligence lab's founding in 2015, said his venture capital firm Greylock was funding companies, such as the presentation generator Tome, that were paying for tools from OpenAI, the creator of the ChatGPT chatbot. Mr. Hoffman also co-founded Inflection AI, one of the highest-profile start-ups working on technology similar to OpenAI's.
"By stepping off the board, I can proactively put to rest any downstream potential issues for both OpenAI and all Greylock portfolio companies I've backed," he said, noting OpenAI had avoided conflicts to date.
Mr. Hoffman's departure underscored the competition among an increasing number of companies to reshape content production as well as entire industries through A.I. REUTERS
AUTOMOBILES
Ford Increases Production
Of 6 Vehicles, 3 Electric
Ford will increase production of six models this year, half of them electric, as the company and the auto industry start to rebound from sluggish U.S. sales in 2022.
The automaker announced Friday that it planned to build more of the Mustang Mach-E, the Bronco Sport S.U.V., the Maverick small pickup, the F-150 Lightning electric pickup, and the Transit and E-Transit gas and electric full-size vans.
To help increase production, Ford said last year that it would add a third shift and 1,100 jobs at its full-size van plant in Claycomo, Mo., near Kansas City, and another 3,200 jobs related to building the F-150 Lightning, which is made in Dearborn, Mich.
Ford will also hire an unspecified number of new workers this year at plants in Cuautitlán and Hermosillo, Mexico, where the Mach-E, Maverick and Bronco Sport are made, according to a spokesman. Production line speeds will increase shortly to raise output, with more workers coming later. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By Reuters and The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Aircraft industry; Artificial intelligence; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Aircraft industry Artificial intelligence

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/02/business/04bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2782072873

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2782072873/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Few Employers Outside of Tech Opt for Layoffs: [National Desk]

Author: Ember, Sydney; Casselman, Ben

Publication info: Ember, Sydney; Casselman, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/few-employers-outside-tech-opt-layoffs/docview/2779979792/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: During the height of the pandemic, hungry and housebound customers clamored for Home Run Inn Pizza's frozen thin-crust pies. The company did everything to oblige.
It kept its machines chugging during lunch breaks and brought on temporary workers to ensure it could produce pizzas at the suddenly breakneck pace.
More recently, demand has eased, and Home Run Inn Pizza, based in suburban Chicago, has reversed some of those measures. But it does not plan to lay off any full-time manufacturing employees -- even if that means having a few more workers than it needs during its second shift.
"We have really good people," said Nick Perrino, the chief operating officer and a great-grandson of the company's founder. "And we don't want to let any of our team members go."
Despite a year of aggressive interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve aimed at taming inflation, and signs that the red-hot labor market is cooling off, most companies have not taken the step of cutting jobs. Outside of some high-profile companies mostly in the tech sector, such as Google's parent Alphabet, Meta and Microsoft, layoffs in the economy as a whole remain remarkably, even historically, rare.
There were fewer layoffs in December than in any month during the two decades before the pandemic, government data show. Filings for unemployment insurance have barely increased. And the unemployment rate, at 3.4 percent, is the lowest since 1969.
"We haven't seen any layoffs whatsoever," said Janis Petrini, a co-owner of an Express Employment Professionals staffing agency office in Grand Rapids, Mich.
For Federal Reserve policymakers, the surprising strength of the job market is a source of both optimism and concern. The low rate of unemployment suggests that a recession is not imminent, but also that the Fed has not achieved its aim in slowing down the economy.
For workers, the picture is clearer: For now, at least, the historically strong job market remains intact.
Economists say a variety of factors could be driving employers to hold on to workers. Some may be scarred by how difficult and costly it has been in recent years to recruit and train employees. Some may be worried about finding themselves short-handed if they need to hire quickly after a fleeting downturn -- as was the case when the economy reopened rapidly early in the pandemic. Others may still be trying to make up for staffing shortfalls after the pandemic's upheaval. The leisure and hospitality industry, for instance, is still about half a million jobs below its prepandemic level.
More fundamentally, the pandemic, and the persistently tight labor market that ensued, may have profoundly reshaped how the nation's employers think about staffing levels and hiring.
"When the economy came back very strongly in 2020, then a lot of firms were trying to hire again and they couldn't," said Matt Notowidigdo, an economics professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. "That experience might still be sitting with people."
At Home Run Inn Pizza, in Woodridge, Ill., Mr. Perrino said attracting and retaining workers, particularly for shifts that can start in the wee hours of the morning or last late into the night, was proving extraordinarily difficult. (Besides its frozen pie business, the company also has a handful of restaurants in the Chicago area.) That, along with his sense of loyalty to his employees -- "I don't think we've ever done a layoff in our company history," he said -- has contributed to his desire to hold on to his full-time staff members, including 135 people in manufacturing.
"Finding talented labor that wants to stay and wants to be committed to the long-term success of the company -- that's been very challenging," he said.
For some companies, particularly those in consumer-facing service businesses like leisure and hospitality, the logic for avoiding layoffs is simpler: Demand is still strong, and they need the help.
John Keener, a restaurateur in Charleston, S.C., said his establishments, which include two Charleston Crab House locations and the A.W. Shuck's Seafood Shack, had effectively been understaffed since the early days of the pandemic.
To attract employees, he raised wages, offered more generous benefits and started advertising open jobs on LinkedIn, Yelp, Facebook and Instagram, he said. When that wasn't enough, he figured out how to work with less, altering menus so he could have fewer prep cooks and giving servers hand-held electronic devices so they could beam orders directly to the kitchen without leaving the floor.
But as the all-important spring tourism season begins, he is more desperate than ever to hire additional employees -- 50, if he gets his wish, which would bring his total to about 270.
"They've talked about a recession since the start of last summer, and if we start worrying about that and anticipating that, we're going down the wrong rabbit hole," he said. "We just keep on plugging along."
The persistent strength of consumer demand -- and the continued hiring that it has driven -- has been vexing for policymakers at the Federal Reserve. Fed officials worry that the strong job market is contributing to inflation, with employers raising wages to attract scarce workers, then raising prices to cover their higher labor costs. That could force the central bank to raise interest rates even more aggressively, ultimately raising the risks of a painful recession.
But the low rate of layoffs also points to the possibility of a rosier scenario. Higher interest rates typically result in higher costs and weaker sales, which often leads to layoffs. If companies respond instead by paring hiring or raises -- while holding onto existing employees -- that could allow the labor market to cool without widespread job losses.
There are signs that is happening. In earnings calls and investor presentations, corporate executives in recent months have begun talking about their efforts to cut costs and rein in spending, even in cases when their own sales remain strong. Some have instituted freezes in hiring, slashed bonuses or cut back on the use of contractors. But so far, they have mostly not resorted to large-scale layoffs as they have in the past, said Julia Pollak, chief economist at the employment site ZipRecruiter.
"The biggest story is the absence of layoffs -- the absence of the layoffs you would normally see in response to higher interest rates," she said.
That anomaly has been evident at Grow Therapy, an online service that helps patients book appointments with therapists who accept their insurance. The company had been hiring rapidly, adding staff to meet the demand it anticipated months down the road. But the company's growth relied on funding from venture capital -- and venture funding was about to become a lot harder and more expensive to obtain.
So in May, Grow Therapy instituted a temporary hiring freeze for most roles. It also put in place rules requiring all co-founders to sign off before anyone could be hired for roles not covered by the freeze. To meet short-term staffing needs, the company turned to an outside temporary agency, rather than bringing on full-time employees.
One thing Grow Therapy never seriously considered was laying off workers, said Jake Cooper, a co-founder and the chief executive officer. Demand was still strong and growing, Mr. Cooper said. And the company expects to keep hiring in the future -- something that could be more difficult if it cut jobs now.
"There's this risk of a death spiral, where if you lay off a large portion of your staff, everyone who's left is less happy and more overworked," he said. "If you do layoffs, it's hard to quantify, but it certainly is more challenging to recruit high quality candidates."
But economists caution that while companies may be clinging to their workers, that could change in a hurry if abstract fears of a recession morph into an actual decline in sales. Economists warn that a recession, if it comes, will almost certainly force companies to cut jobs en masse -- no matter how reluctant they may be after their recent experience with a tight labor market.
"That's the risk," Mr. Notowidigdo said, referring to companies' strategy of holding onto workers even as business slows. "You might end up with multiple rounds of layoffs in the future if the recession turns out to be more severe than expected."
Photograph Charleston Crab House in South Carolina has tried to work with less, altering its menus so that it needs fewer prep cooks. Still, the restaurant hopes to add employees.; "We just keep on plugging along," said John Keener, who has two Charleston Crab House locations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEAN RAYFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); "We have really good people," said Nick Perrino, left, of Home Run Inn Pizza in Woodridge, Ill. "And we don't want to let any of our team members go." The U.S. has its lowest jobless rate since 1969. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNDON FRENCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Workforce planning; Hiring; Employees; Employment; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Employers; Interest rates; Unemployment; Economists; Layoffs; Labor market; Recessions; Economic conditions

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Hiring Employees Employment Federal Reserve monetary policy Employers Interest rates Unemployment Economists Layoffs Labor market Recessions Economic conditions

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/26/business/economy/staffing-layoffs.html

Title: Few Employers Outside of Tech Opt for Layoffs:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 27, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779979792

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/few-employers-outside-tech-opt-layoffs/docview/2779979792/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyr ight New York Times Company Feb 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Beam of Hope for a Team And Its Beleaguered City: [briefing]

Author: Browning, Kellen

Publication info: Browning, Kellen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beam-hope-team-beleaguered-city/docview/2779979774/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A purple beam in the capital city regularly brings joy to a beleaguered fan base.
SACRAMENTO -- A brilliant purple laser shoots into the sky. On cloudless nights, it arcs into space like a sci-fi tractor beam.
City residents gape at it from their windows, crane their necks to catch a glimpse while driving or film it on their phones. The beam, shot from the roof of the downtown Golden 1 Center, is cause for celebration: It means the Sacramento Kings won.
"Light the beam!" thousands of fans at Golden 1 chant when the team is on the cusp of yet another victory. Their wish is granted. The beam turns on.
It has rarely been this joyful for basketball fans in California's capital. For nearly two decades, the Kings have been the laughingstock of the N.B.A., firing a carousel of coaches and missing the playoffs for 16 straight years, the longest drought in N.B.A. history.
The beam was introduced this season -- just as the team had begun to show real promise -- and it fittingly has become a beacon of hope.
"These fans have been loyal for so many years, and for a long time things just haven't come together," said Harrison Barnes, one of the Kings' starting forwards. "Seeing people excited, seeing people going, 'Light the beam,' all those things, it's been cool to see."
Less glamorous than Los Angeles and less affluent than San Francisco, Sacramento has long been overlooked. The city was enjoying a resurgence in the years before Covid, but as has been the case elsewhere, the pandemic hit the downtown hard. Just as tech workers haven't returned to San Francisco's downtown, many state office employees haven't returned to Sacramento's city core on a daily basis.
The state capital is also struggling to address homelessness and a lack of affordable housing. But boosters still see a city with promise. While the remote work culture has reduced the number of government employees downtown, it has made the Sacramento region an attractive destination for residents priced out of the Bay Area.
"It's rapidly changing from a traditional government town to something more dynamic," said Mayor Darrell Steinberg, a Kings fan who has lived in Sacramento for nearly 40 years.
Sacramento, Steinberg added, is "like the Kings themselves -- we're not jaded, we're earnest, we're always hopeful about the future."
In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the Kings were an elite team, coached by Rick Adelman and led by dynamic playmakers like Vlade Divac and Chris Webber. They were once declared "The Greatest Show on Court," and Arco Arena, their aging but beloved stadium, was a raucous environment.
It all fell apart too fast. A controversial playoff loss to the Los Angeles Lakers and a career-altering knee injury to Webber ended the Kings' success.
Growing up in Davis, 20 minutes from Sacramento, I have only faint recollections of the glory days. My first lasting memory is a negative one: my dad picking me up from school and informing me the Kings had traded Mike Bibby, my favorite player. (I did know enough to hate the Lakers.)
The playoff drought during my formative years has been extraordinarily depressing. The Kings passed up generational superstars in the draft and bungled games for so long that fans gave them a nickname, sort of their hapless alter ego: the Kangz.
But fans stayed loyal. In the early 2010s, amid efforts to move the team to Seattle or Anaheim, the Kings' departure seemed so imminent that their television announcers once bid a tearful farewell. But fans in this town with one major league sports franchise packed council meetings and held rallies. A new owner, Vivek Ranadive, promised to keep the Kings in Sacramento and build an arena downtown.
All of that suffering has made the team's current success even sweeter. The Kings hired Coach Mike Brown and paired the star point guard De'Aaron Fox with Domantas Sabonis, a gifted Lithuanian American center. The result has been an offensive explosion that's pushed Sacramento to third place in the Western Conference. A coveted playoff berth is within reach when the All Star Break ends and the Kings resume play Thursday in Sacramento.
If the Kings win that game, against the Portland Trail Blazers, you can expect a player in the arena to press a fake button to "light" the beam, which is formed by a half-dozen 300-watt "Laser Space Cannons" -- approved by the Federal Aviation Administration -- on the roof.
It's a cheesy, silly gimmick, and we fans go nuts for it. There's a "Light the Beam" song and beam-branded merchandise. After wins, fans rush out of the arena to take photos of the beam and even kiss under it.
"It's like the Bat Signal," said Doug Christie, a Kings assistant coach who was a key player from 2000-05 when the team had success. "It's taken on a life of its own."
The rest of the news
Storing rain: Torrential rains this winter could have helped to replenish the state's depleted aquifers, but water agencies and experts say state bureaucracy, intended to distribute water fairly, has stood in the way.
Barbara Lee: Representative Barbara Lee, the highest-ranking Black woman appointed to Democratic leadership in the House and a leading antiwar voice, entered the 2024 Senate race in California on Tuesday.
Reproductive Freedom Alliance: Democratic governors in 20 states, including California, are forming the Reproductive Freedom Alliance, a network intended to strengthen abortion access, The Associated Press reports.
Chance of snow: A winter storm passing through California this week may bring snow to unusually low elevations, including hills in the San Francisco Bay Area and on the highest peaks of the Santa Monica Mountains, The Los Angeles Times reports.
Bishop killing: The authorities arrested Carlos Medina in connection with the killing of David G. O'Connell, an auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles who was found fatally shot at his home on Saturday.
Vaccine rates: Only 6 percent of Black children and 5 percent of Latino children younger than 5 in Los Angeles County have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine, according to county data, The Los Angeles Times reports. Larceny: The Fresno police chief issued a warning for catalytic converter thieves, The Fresno Bee reports.
LinkedIn layoffs: LinkedIn has revealed plans to eliminate 91 jobs in three Bay Area cities in a new round of layoffs that intensify current challenges for Silicon Valley tech and biotech companies, The Mercury News reports.
State of emergency: Frustrated by the crisis of homelessness in San Francisco, a group of residents wants the city to declare a state of emergency to enable a more urgent response, The San Francisco Chronicle reports.
What you get
For $ 900,000: A two-bedroom bungalow in Los Angeles, a three-bedroom condominium in San Francisco or a 1941 cottage in Long Beach.
What we're eating
Yogurt berry parfait with steel-cut oats.
Where we're traveling
Today's tip comes from Janine Sprout, who lives in Monterey. Janine recommends Lynn "Rip" Van Winkle Open Space in Pacific Grove:
"A new discovery for us, this open space is not only dog friendly, it's a dreamy adventure for hikers and kids. A narrow ribbon of open space, it's located along Congress Avenue in Pacific Grove. The terrain is untamed with paths going every which way, and is heavily forested with Monterey cypress, Monterey pine, and coast live oak. The open space borders Pebble Beach, offering pedestrian access to 17-Mile Drive."
Tell us about your favorite places to visit in California. Email your suggestions to CAtoday@nytimes.com. We'll be sharing more in upcoming editions of the newsletter.
And before you go, some good news
Last year on March 3, Marc Beuttler's birthday, he changed into pajamas and got into bed after work.
Matthew Davis presented Beuttler with a cupcake. Then he gave him a ring, and asked him to marry him.
Beuttler, who grew up in Ventura, and Davis, who grew up in Princeton, N.J., and New Orleans, had kept their romance going over seven years and 14 address changes. Before their wedding in January, Beuttler accepted a position as a dermatologist in Connecticut, and the couple moved yet again.
"Over time," Beuttler told The Times, "we've learned that home is people. It's the relationships you make."
Thanks for reading. We'll be back tomorrow.
P.S. Here's today's Mini Crossword .
Soumya Karlamangla and Briana Scalia contributed to California Today. You can reach the team at CAtoday@nytimes.com .
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox .
Whenever the Sacramento Kings win a game, a laser shoots from the roof of Golden 1 Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROCKY WIDNER/NBAE, VIS GETTY IMAGES); Domantas Sabonis pressing a fake button to "light" the beam. The Kings' current success recalls the glory days of the late 1990s and early 2000s when Chris Webber starred. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LACHLAN CUNNINGHAM/GETTY IMAGES; ROCKY WIDNER/NBAE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page D5.

Subject: Stadiums; COVID-19 vaccines; Success; Lasers; Coaches & managers; Professional basketball; State of emergency; Layoffs

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs

Location: United States--US; Sacramento California; Pacific Grove California; California; Los Angeles California; San Francisco California

People: Webber, Chris; Lee, Barbara

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210; Name: Los Angeles Times; NAICS: 513110; Name: Sacramento Kings; NAICS: 711211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/22/us/sacramento-kings-beam.html

Title: A Beam of Hope for a Team And Its Beleaguered City:   [briefing ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 27, 2023

column: California Today

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779979774

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/beam-hope-team-beleaguered-city/docview/2779979774/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What Layoffs? Many Employers Are Eager to Hang On to Workers.

Author: Ember, Sydney; Casselman, Ben

Publication info: Ember, Sydney; Casselman, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-layoffs-many-employers-are-eager-hang-on/docview/2779901318/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
During the height of the pandemic, hungry and housebound customers clamored for Home Run Inn Pizza’s frozen thin-crust pies. The company did everything to oblige.
It kept its machines chugging during lunch breaks and brought on temporary workers to ensure it could produce pizzas at the suddenly breakneck pace.
More recently, demand has eased, and Home Run Inn Pizza, based in suburban Chicago, has reversed some of those measures. But it does not plan to lay off any full-time manufacturing employees — even if that means having a few more workers than it needs during its second shift.
“We have really good people,” said Nick Perrino, chief operating officer and a great-grandson of the company’s founder. “And we don’t want to let any of our team members go.”
Despite a year of aggressive interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve aimed at taming inflation, and signs that the red-hot labor market is cooling off, most companies have not taken the step of cutting jobs. Outside of some high-profile companies mostly in the tech sector, such as Google’s parent Alphabet, Meta and Microsoft, layoffs in the economy as a whole remain remarkably, even historically, rare.
There were fewer layoffs in December than in any month during the two decades before the pandemic, government data shows. Filings for unemployment insurance have barely increased. And the unemployment rate, at 3.4%, is the lowest since 1969.
“We haven’t seen any layoffs whatsoever,” said Janis Petrini, co-owner of an Express Employment Professionals staffing agency office in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
For Federal Reserve policymakers, the surprising strength of the job market is a source of both optimism and concern. The low rate of unemployment suggests that a recession is not imminent, but also that the Fed has not achieved its aim in slowing down the economy.
For workers, the picture is clearer: For now, at least, the historically strong job market remains intact.
Economists say a variety of factors could be driving employers to hold on to workers. Some may be scarred by how difficult and costly it has been in recent years to recruit and train employees. Some may be worried about finding themselves short-handed if they need to hire quickly after a fleeting downturn — as was the case when the economy reopened rapidly early in the pandemic. Others may still be trying to make up for staffing shortfalls after the pandemic’s upheaval. The leisure and hospitality industry, for instance, is still about a half-million jobs below its pre-pandemic level.
More fundamentally, the pandemic, and the persistently tight labor market that ensued, may have profoundly reshaped how the nation’s employers think about staffing levels and hiring.
“When the economy came back very strongly in 2020, then a lot of firms were trying to hire again and they couldn’t,” said Matt Notowidigdo, an economics professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. “That experience might still be sitting with people.”
At Home Run Inn Pizza, in Woodridge, Illinois, Perrino said attracting and retaining workers, particularly for shifts that can start in the wee hours of the morning or last late into the night, was proving extraordinarily difficult. (Besides its frozen pie business, the company also has a handful of restaurants in the Chicago area.) That, along with his sense of loyalty to his employees — “I don’t think we’ve ever done a layoff in our company history,” he said — has contributed to his desire to hold on to his full-time staff members, including 135 people in manufacturing.
“Finding talented labor that wants to stay and wants to be committed to the long-term success of the company — that’s been very challenging,” he said.
For some companies, particularly those in consumer-facing service businesses such as leisure and hospitality, the logic for avoiding layoffs is simpler: Demand is still strong, and they need the help.
John Keener, a restaurateur in Charleston, South Carolina, said his establishments, which include two Charleston Crab House locations and the A.W. Shuck’s Seafood Shack, had effectively been understaffed since the early days of the pandemic.
To attract employees, he raised wages, offered more generous benefits and started advertising open jobs on LinkedIn, Yelp, Facebook and Instagram, he said. When that wasn’t enough, he figured out how to work with less, altering menus so he could have fewer prep cooks and giving servers hand-held electronic devices so they could beam orders directly to the kitchen without leaving the floor.
But as the all-important spring tourism season begins, he is more desperate than ever to hire additional employees — 50, if he gets his wish, which would bring his total to about 270.
“They’ve talked about a recession since the start of last summer, and if we start worrying about that and anticipating that, we’re going down the wrong rabbit hole,” he said. “We just keep on plugging along.”
The persistent strength of consumer demand — and the continued hiring that it has driven — has been vexing for policymakers at the Federal Reserve. Fed officials worry that the strong job market is contributing to inflation, with employers raising wages to attract scarce workers, then raising prices to cover their higher labor costs. That could force the central bank to raise interest rates even more aggressively, ultimately raising the risks of a painful recession.
But the low rate of layoffs also points to the possibility of a rosier scenario. Higher interest rates typically result in higher costs and weaker sales, which often leads to layoffs. If companies respond instead by paring hiring or raises — while holding onto existing employees — that could allow the labor market to cool without widespread job losses.
There are signs that is happening. In earnings calls and investor presentations, corporate executives in recent months have begun talking about their efforts to cut costs and rein in spending, even in cases when their own sales remain strong. Some have instituted freezes in hiring, slashed bonuses or cut back on the use of contractors. But so far, they have mostly not resorted to large-scale layoffs as they have in the past, said Julia Pollak, chief economist at the employment site ZipRecruiter.
“The biggest story is the absence of layoffs — the absence of the layoffs you would normally see in response to higher interest rates,” she said.
That anomaly has been evident at Grow Therapy, an online service that helps patients book appointments with therapists who accept their insurance. The company had been hiring rapidly, adding staff to meet the demand it anticipated months down the road. But the company’s growth relied on funding from venture capital — and venture funding was about to become a lot harder and more expensive to obtain.
So, in May, Grow Therapy instituted a temporary hiring freeze for most roles. It also put in place rules requiring all co-founders to sign off before anyone could be hired for roles not covered by the freeze. To meet short-term staffing needs, the company turned to an outside temporary agency, rather than bringing on full-time employees.
One thing Grow Therapy never seriously considered was laying off workers, said Jake Cooper, co-founder and CEO. Demand was still strong and growing, Cooper said. And the company expects to keep hiring in the future — something that could be more difficult if it cut jobs now.
“There’s this risk of a death spiral, where if you lay off a large portion of your staff, everyone who’s left is less happy and more overworked,” he said. “If you do layoffs, it’s hard to quantify, but it certainly is more challenging to recruit high-quality candidates.”
Economists caution that although companies may be clinging to their workers, that could change in a hurry if abstract fears of a recession morph into an actual decline in sales. Economists warn that a recession, if it comes, will almost certainly force companies to cut jobs en masse — no matter how reluctant they may be after their recent experience with a tight labor market.
“That’s the risk,” Notowidigdo said, referring to companies’ strategy of holding onto workers even as business slows. “You might end up with multiple rounds of layoffs in the future if the recession turns out to be more severe than expected.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Pizza; Workforce planning; Hiring; Employees; Employment; Pandemics; Federal Reserve monetary policy; Interest rates; Manufacturing; Employers; Unemployment; Economists; Layoffs; Recessions; Labor market

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Hiring Employees Employment Federal Reserve monetary policy Interest rates Manufacturing Employers Unemployment Economists Layoffs Recessions Labor market

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Home Run Inn Pizza; NAICS: 722511

Identifier / keyword: Business; Google Inc; Ziprecruiter Inc; Express Employment Professionals; Instagram Inc; Facebook Inc; Yelp; University Of Chicago; Linkedin Corporation; Illinois; South Carolina; Michigan; Grand Rapids (Mich); Alphabet Inc; Microsoft Corp; Chicago (Ill); Federal Reserve System; Seasons And Months; Executive Compensation; Real Estate (Commercial); Restaurants; Employment Agencies; Inflation (Economics); Generation Z; Factories And Manufacturing; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Federal State Relations (Us); Computers And The Internet; Banking And Financial Institutions; Appointments And Executive Changes; Budgets And Budgeting; Government Bonds; Company Reports; Pizza; Wages And Salaries; Interest Rates; United States Economy; Recession And Depression; Hiring And Promotion; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Labor And Jobs

Title: What Layoffs? Many Employers Are Eager to Hang On to Workers.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-26 @ 22:03

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779901318

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-layoffs-many-employers-are-eager-hang-on/docview/2779901318/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Freshly Unemployed, Sent Reeling, Land on TikTok: [Style Desk]

Author: Krueger, Alyson

Publication info: Krueger, Alyson. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/freshly-unemployed-sent-reeling-land-on-tiktok/docview/2779829685/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some workers are using the platform to share stories about job cuts, give advice and search for new roles.
Bailey Harris, 25, worked as a recruiter for a big tech company for more than a year and a half before she was laid off in January. After the initial shock wore off, she decided to tell her story three days later on TikTok. "I was never really worried about layoffs," she said in the video, which she recorded from a car. "I just didn't see this coming," she added.
It was only the second TikTok video Ms. Harris had ever made, but within a day it had more than 100,000 views. That number has since quadrupled.
She continued to post about being newly unemployed. In one, she shared how she was saving money. In another, she told her viewers about a new side hustle helping a friend flip real estate. (These videos performed much better than the others she later posted, which focused on topics like dating, fitness and nutrition.)
"I was like, 'This is relevant -- why not speak about it because I know a lot of people have been going through the same thing?"' she said. The videos, she continued, were "getting a lot of comments about how people like my attitude toward my situation."
As tech workers continue to get laid off across the country -- more than 50,000 employees were let go from Alphabet, Amazon, Meta and Microsoft alone in the last few months -- some have turned to TikTok to share their experiences.
An emerging microgenre on the platform, layoff vlogs can be a source of validation and community, or a self-esteem boost, for young workers who have recently lost their jobs. In these videos, some creators vent about their former employers or expose perceived wrongdoings. Others have a more practical objective in mind: using the platform to find their next gig.
Mass layoffs by companies are hardly new, and neither is the idea that former employees will find an outlet to talk about what happened to them. When some nine million Americans lost their jobs in the 2008 financial crisis, workers might have called each other, met up at a bar or posted on Facebook and Twitter.
And during the last major economic upheaval at the beginning of the pandemic -- over a single week in March, more than three million Americans became unemployed -- TikTok was another available avenue. But while some workers did use the platform for talking about layoffs, a majority of the videos didn't resonate as they do now.
"This is the first time employees can get laid off, and press record on their phone and have something go mega-mega-megaviral," said Gabrielle Judge, a content creator who helps women find jobs in tech. She noted that platforms like Facebook or LinkedIn, where disgruntled employees might have gone in the past to vent, don't have the same viral potential as TikTok.
Calon DiPiero, 30, said that when she was laid off last month from an event planning job at Attentive Mobile, an S.M.S. marketing platform, she filmed a TikTok video to keep her situation in perspective. The caption read: "When you were laid off so you spent the last 48 hours crying in the same comfort hoodie but then you remember you're just unemployed not ugly." Posting the video helped her overcome the shame she felt when she was first let go, she said.
"Initially, if this happens, your ego gets bruised," Ms. DiPiero said. "But then if you can take a step back and say, OK, this is happening to a lot of people. It's not a personal vendetta against me."
Tech recruiters said TikTok could be helpful for networking and job hunting. Dozens of companies, including Target, Chipotle and Sweetgreen, have used the app for hiring.
"If you say in a video that you would love to connect with anyone who has a role for you, a lot of people will see it," said Jonathan Javier, the chief executive and founder of Wonsulting, which helps people, especially those who come from nontraditional backgrounds, find jobs in tech.
The trick, Mr. Javier said, is to strike the right tone: "If you are a prospective employer, seeing someone vent about a past employer can be a red flag. I encourage everyone to stay positive, to focus on the actions you are taking to find a new job."
Some people are heeding that advice. Ms. Harris, for example, opted not to say which company she worked for in her videos. "Obviously people can do their research and find out where I worked through LinkedIn," she said. "But I really wanted to stay positive and not name names."
Brit Levy, 35, who said she was laid off by Meta in November, used TikTok to talk about her frustrations with the severance agreement she said the company was offering, amassing almost 800,000 views. Dozens of former Meta employees reached out to her after the series of videos she posted, she said. "We are finding a little community with each other," said Ms. Levy, who lives in Oceanside, Calif.
She said she has also had hiring managers reach out to offer support and give her professional advice on the next steps she should take in her career.
TikTok creators who share details about the circumstances of their layoffs, however, can risk legal trouble, depending on which they talk about. "There are many companies that require you to sign documents to get your severance package," Mr. Javier said. "If they sign a form, there are legal implications."
Ms. Levy said she wasn't worried about the potential consequences of speaking publicly about a former employer.
"Honestly, they should be worried about ramifications from me," she said. "I now know how to get eyes on an issue I feel is super important."
Photograph From left, Bailey Harris, Calon DiPiero and Brit Levy. After getting laid off from jobs in tech, they turned to TikTok to talk about their experience. This article appeared in print on page ST4.

Subject: Employers; Video recordings; Employees; Layoffs

Business indexing term: Subject: Employers Employees Layoffs

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/16/style/tiktok-tech-layoffs.html

Title: The Freshly Unemployed, Sent Reeling, Land on TikTok:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779829685

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/freshly-unemployed-sent-reeling-land-on-tiktok/docview/2779829685/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Are Layoffs Imminent? Here's How to Prepare.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chen, Brian X; Goldberg, Emma; Lieber, Ron

Publication info: Chen, Brian X; Goldberg, Emma; Lieber, Ron. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/are-layoffs-imminent-heres-how-prepare/docview/2778162267/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: What you should do while you are still employed, how to retain important data and what you should be doing with your money.
Tech booms and busts are nothing new, so the recent layoffs at places like Facebook and Google may not be that surprising. The media industry is its own perpetual roller-coaster ride, so forced departures from NBC News and Gannett are understandable.
But when companies like 3M, Disney and FedEx push employees out the door, as they have in recent weeks, it makes sense for most people to sit up and stare squarely at the situation. With tens of thousands of employees from scores of employers having lost their jobs since the beginning of the year, it's well worth asking two questions.
Am I next? And if I might be, what should I do to prepare?
There is, in fact, a lot you can do, according to experts from fields as diverse as personal technology, career management, finance and employment law. And all of their advice can help you tighten up your life even if your job does not end up being on the line.
Do a career checkup while you are still employed.
First, keep a close eye on your employer's health. If your workplace holds regular staff meetings, ask about whether it is meeting its financial goals. If you work for a company that trades its shares publicly, this information will be readily accessible.
"Before you freak out and wonder if you're next, get a sense of how well your business is doing," said Scott Dobroski, a career expert at Indeed, the job search site. "If the business is staying flat or going down, you might want to start preparing."
Mr. Dobroski recommends annual career checkups, just like an annual physical exam with a doctor. Assess your résumé and make sure it reflects new skills you've acquired and projects you've tackled. You can also draft a generic cover letter.
It's easy to network with people you know, but push yourself to network outside your usual social and professional circle, too. You never know who will reach out with an opportunity -- what social scientists call "the strength of weak ties."
Introduce yourself to people who work at companies or in industries you're interested in, and keep in touch with them intermittently, through platforms like LinkedIn. Mr. Dobroski also advised being mindful when speaking with competitors.
"It's always a good rule of thumb to act with transparency and take actions you'd feel comfortable with your boss, or colleagues, knowing," he said.
J.T. O'Donnell, a career coach, noted that you can set up your LinkedIn profile to ensure recruiters are able to get in touch with opportunities. That means turning on the feature in privacy settings that indicates you're open to being contacted, updating your headline on LinkedIn with top skills, updating your work history to quantify accomplishments in various positions (with data when possible) and posting your perspective on industry news so LinkedIn followers get a sense of your voice.
Developing personal relationships with colleagues in a remote-work environment requires more effort, especially when you've never met in person. If you've collaborated with someone consistently, and you trust the person, ask for his or her personal email address and phone number. That way, if layoffs arrive abruptly or unexpectedly, you can reach out, whether you need a reference or just want to talk.
Many companies offer professional development budgets. Take advantage of those to build skills that will make it easier to land your next role. According to Handshake, a job search platform for students and early-career workers, notable skills that employers are searching for include Microsoft Excel, Python, Java, Adobe Illustrator, Canva, machine learning and Adobe InDesign. There has also been a nearly 17-times increase in Handshake job openings mentioning TikTok since 2019.
Save emails that you've received praising your work and testifying to your abilities. When applying for jobs in the future, you might want to reread those as a reminder of some of the strongest work you've done, or even to quote from. Those notes will also be useful as a reminder that losing a job often has nothing to do with your skills and abilities.
Separate your personal and work data, and make a plan to retain important information.
The shift to remote work during the pandemic forced many workers to blend together their professional and personal lives. This inevitably led workers to use their work devices at home for personal tasks.
Though convenient and cost effective, using an office computer for personal use poses serious risks to your private data in the event of a layoff, said Brian Fitzpatrick, the founder of Google's Data Liberation Front, a team that developed products for people to manage their Google data.
Anything that you do on company equipment can be monitored and obtained by your employer. If you became involved in a legal issue, all of your data -- including photos, browser history and personal messages -- could become exposed in the discovery process.
That's why Mr. Fitzpatrick responds from his personal address when friends and family send emails to his professional email accounts.
"You should absolutely never put any of your personal data in your work account," he said. "You don't own that data if it goes to your company account."
The simplest way to divorce personal data from work machines is to use only devices you own for personal matters. Buying your own computer is one solution -- and there are plenty of options for less than $ 200, like Chromebooks or refurbished machines.
Realistically, however, when workers are in the office they will deal with some personal matters on their devices, Mr. Fitzpatrick said. Do what you can to keep that activity off the work machine.
For instance, if you take your own smartphone to the office, use it to message your friends and check your social media accounts. If you must use your office machine for personal matters, create a separate profile in a web browser. In the Chrome web browser, for example, click on the profile icon in the upper-right corner and choose "Add" to create a separate profile for personal use. When done, toggle back to your work profile.
Workers should download copies of all their data that they would legally be allowed to take with them. Many employers forbid sales workers to take copies of their contacts, because client lists are deemed confidential -- so check the legality of what you can take before downloading copies.
If you've determined there is personal data on your work devices, download a copy and store it elsewhere, like a personal cloud service such as a Dropbox account or a USB thumb drive.
Here are some examples of how to download copies of your data:
If your office uses Google services, you can visit google.com/takeout. From there, you can follow Google's steps to grab copies of your contacts list, files stored in Google Drive, chat histories and photos. (If your office has disabled Takeout, it's on you to manually dig through your machine and Google account for personal data, drag and copy that data to your own cloud drive or storage device and purge it from the machine.)
If your company uses Microsoft tools, Microsoft lists some simple steps to download copies of your Outlook contacts list and calendar; it also has steps on how to download copies of documents created with Microsoft Word and presentations made with PowerPoint.
Many offices also use password managers that store all of a user's passwords in a digital vault. Most vaults are likely to contain passwords for personal accounts, so it's important to have a copy of your vault to continue to have access to those accounts. LastPass and 1Password, two popular password managers, list steps on their websites for how to download a copy of your vault.
Make your money moves.
Standard personal finance rules apply when considering the possibility of a layoff.
If you have cash in an emergency savings account, it will supplement any severance pay and unemployment insurance you receive. If you don't, now is a fine time to start putting money away, given that many banks are offering savings account interest rates of 3 percent or more.
If you can't put much in savings, going into debt could be necessary if you stop getting a paycheck. The best time to apply for loans, however, is now -- when you do have regular income to report on any application. If you're a homeowner, consider opening a home equity line of credit. If you aren't, a new low-interest credit card might be in order.
Many people borrow from their workplace 401(k) and similar plans. If that's you, keep in mind that leaving or losing your job can trigger the need for more immediate repayment.
Fidelity and Vanguard, which are big administrators of such plans, note that upon the termination of your job, you may have as little as 30 days to repay the debt -- and usually no longer than 90 or so. If you don't pay in time, the balance could become a distribution that could come with a tax bill and a possible 10 percent penalty.
Some employers offer more generous terms, so check your plan's details if you've taken out this type of loan. Better yet, chip away at the debt while you can, if you can, before any potential layoff.
If your employer offers pretax health care flexible spending accounts or dependent care accounts, this might be a good time to seek any reimbursements throughout the year as you incur eligible expenses. That way, you are not scrambling to file one giant pile of claims in the midst of the chaos of a job loss.
But if you don't do this ahead of time, you should still have at least a bit of time after termination to put in for reimbursement before you would forfeit the money in the accounts. Employers allow an average of 90 days to file those claims -- sometimes from the date of your departure and sometimes from the end of the plan's year, according to HealthEquity, a company that administers these plans. Some employers are more strict, however, so ask about this before you make any assumptions.
Employees who get some compensation via stock or options will want to plan as well. Start by checking the vesting schedule for anything you're eligible for, and then see what you can learn about the so-called post-termination exercise period.
You usually have 95 days or less after losing your job to exercise stock options, according to Carta, a company that helps employers and employees manage such compensation, though some companies are more generous.
One task worth doing now: See if your bank account information with a service like Carta is updated so you can quickly transfer money to buy stock options if you want to after losing your job.
Understand your legal options.
If you believe that your employer might sweep you into a layoff for reasons that are illegal, you'll want to retain evidence that could support any legal claim.
Employment lawyers offer several suggestions, and the first one is just basic career hygiene. "Ask for feedback, or demand it, on your performance so you have a record of it," said Lisa J. Banks, a partner in Washington with the firm Katz Banks Kumin.
Employers are often bad at keeping piecemeal records of high performance, but you can be good at it. According to Ms. Banks, emails like "Hey, Bob, thanks, we really rely on you" could be useful later. It is fine to forward these messages to a personal email address, as long as they don't contain any confidential or proprietary information that you were not supposed to have in the first place.
If bad things are happening to you, you'll want to document those as well. It may make sense to consult with a lawyer to make sure you don't break any laws while gathering evidence. Legal counsel might also help you weigh whether to register a formal complaint with your employer while you still have a job (which may subject you to retaliation) or do nothing for now (which, if you threaten legal action after a layoff, may lead the employer to argue that you would have filed a formal complaint sooner if the problem had been real).
At the very least, it makes sense to document any sketchy workplace doings for yourself as they happen, said Jennifer Liu, the managing partner at the law firm of Liu Peterson-Fisher in Burlingame, Calif.
"They can't say that you're making things up now if you have a time-stamped chronology of the last 10 years on the job," she said. "Use your personal email, and email yourself."
Ms. Liu also suggested talking to trustworthy people about what is happening as it happens. Think, too, about who might be willing to speak on your behalf someday if a post-layoff dispute arises.
"When one person says something, it's not as credible as three people saying it," she said.
Plan for the moment.
Layoffs may come without notice, and you may suddenly find yourself on Zoom or in a room with someone who is as uncomfortable as you are. Let that person marinate in those feelings a bit, wallow in any silence and possibly fill it to avoid discomfort.
"When presented with the pink slip, the best thing to do is to listen to what they're saying," said Wendi S. Lazar, a partner in New York City with the law firm Outten & Golden. "People often say, 'I don't remember what they said to me.' Ask for a pencil and paper."
Then ask why you were let go. "They may say: 'Oh, well, we had a mass layoff. There were no performance issues involved at all,"' Ms. Lazar said. "And let's say you end up with a discrimination case and opposing counsel says that you were fired for performance reasons. That's in direct conflict."
Whatever someone says to or about you, try to sit on your hands and hold your tongue. "Don't agree to anything, sign anything or engage in a debate over the merits of the termination right then and there," Ms. Banks said. "There is a possibility that what you say might be construed as some kind of admission of wrongdoing."
And, once more with feeling, transcribe as much of the conversation as you can. "Documentation is all important," she said. "In good times and bad."
Tara Siegel Bernard contributed reporting.
Tara Siegel Bernard contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Web browsers; Electronic mail systems; Personal information; Careers; Savings accounts; Employers; Job hunting; Layoffs; Employment; Social networks; Personal finance

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers Savings accounts Employers Job hunting Layoffs Employment Social networks Personal finance

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/10/your-money/layoffs-career-financial-advice.html

Title: Are Layoffs Imminent? Here's How to Prepare.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 21, 2023

column: Your Money

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interes t Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2778162267

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/are-layoffs-imminent-heres-how-prepare/docview/2778162267/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hedge Fund Billionaire Extracts Billions More to Retire

Author: Copeland, Rob; Farrell, Maureen

Publication info: Copeland, Rob; Farrell, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hedge-fund-billionaire-extracts-billions-more/docview/2777974853/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
When Ray Dalio, the multibillionaire founder of the world’s biggest hedge fund, Bridgewater Associates, announced his retirement in October, both he and the firm he founded more than four decades ago treated the moment as celebratory.
Dalio, 73, told his millions of followers on LinkedIn that he felt “great about the people” to whom he had handed the reins. And one of Bridgewater’s two new CEOs, Nir Bar Dea, sent an enthusiastic note to clients: “The transition from Ray is done!”
But neither Dalio, known for his creed of “radical transparency,” nor Bridgewater said at the time, or since, that he had hardly gone without a fight. His exit — partly spurred by controversial remarks he had made on television about China’s human rights record — followed more than six months of frantic behind-the-scenes wrangling over how much money his successors at the firm were willing to pay the billionaire to go away.
In the end, Dalio, with an estimated net worth of $19 billion, agreed to surrender his control over all key decisions at Bridgewater only if the firm agreed to give him what could amount to billions of dollars in regular payouts over the coming years through a special class of stock.
These secret arrangements were described by a half-dozen current and former Bridgewater employees who said they risked angering Dalio and could be sued by the firm if they spoke publicly. At an internal meeting last year during the heat of the exit negotiations, Dalio described the hedge fund as his “property rights,” according to one employee, and indicated that he expected to be compensated accordingly.
Dalio did not respond to requests for comment.
Bridgewater, which manages roughly $125 billion on behalf of public pensions and sovereign wealth funds, is dealing with a situation that’s becoming increasingly common across corporate America. Builders of companies big and small appear unwilling to let go, or are asked to step back in when there is turbulence.
Recently, Marc Benioff, of the technology giant Salesforce, returned to solo leadership of the company he co-founded in 1999 and cut about 8,000 jobs. Howard Schultz, now on his third go-round as the CEO of Starbucks, has appeared intent on crushing efforts across the company to unionize store workers.
Google’s founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, have stepped in and out of their company several times. And over the summer, Bill Conway, one of the founders of the investing behemoth Carlyle, took the reins after the CEO left abruptly, and helped choose a new one this month.
While battles in the executive suite may seem far removed from the concerns of everyday American workers, strife in upper management often creates havoc lower in the ranks. In the investing world, upheaval can be such a distraction that fund performance suffers, squeezing retirees and others who count on steady returns from their investment managers.
Many founders, even after selling off a majority of their company, retain power because they hold a special class of shares that give them more voting rights than regular shares and allow them to maintain control over company decisions.
Dalio’s relationship with Bridgewater goes well beyond that. He has been the firm’s CEO, chief investment officer and chair — sometimes solo, sometimes with partners and sometimes all at once.
At the same time, Dalio has portrayed himself publicly as a management guru of sorts, promoting an unusual workplace philosophy that he calls “radical transparency.” The gist of it is that Bridgewater tapes most of its employee meetings and broadcasts them firmwide, as evidence that it is a place where hard truths can be spoken about openly.
He has discussed how he ranks employees in categories such as “willingness to touch the nerve” and “quick to learn from mistakes.” Under his direction, Bridgewater spent millions of dollars on custom iPad software for employees to rank each other in real time on a 1-to-10 scale in dozens of personality categories.
In 2017, Dalio published “Principles,” a bestselling book that laid out his leadership rules. (“Be willing to ‘shoot the people you love,’” read one.) He has since become a regular speaker at TED conferences and is prolific on Twitter.
Dalio and Bridgewater rolled out his retirement plans more than a decade ago, in 2009, when he told the firm and its clients that he would begin to turn over his responsibilities. That proved easier said than done. Bridgewater cycled through a seemingly endless group of would-be CEOs as Dalio found reasons to reject nearly all of them, and vice versa.
One former co-CEO, Eileen Murray, sued the firm for discrimination after she left in 2020, a matter later settled out of court. She had shared the role with David McCormick, who resigned a little over a year ago to run in the Republican primary in Pennsylvania for the Senate, which he lost.
All the while, Dalio sent mixed signals on whether he would stay or go, telling staff and investors that he would leave only when he was certain that the right leadership was in place.
In mid-2018, Bridgewater said it would become a partnership as part of a long-term plan to move away from founder control. In theory, that should have transformed the firm into an entity controlled by its top employees rather than one man.
But Dalio wasted little time in telling colleagues that he was not interested in a simple passing of the baton, according to current and former employees. He approached dozens of top employees — at the time, Bridgewater had roughly 1,500 full-time staff members — and told them they would have to buy his shares with their own money, some of those employees said.
Dalio offered to arrange 10-year loans to those who lacked the funds to buy him out, according to two former employees. If they declined, he intimated that they should consider leaving the firm, they said. Still, even as he sold shares to his colleagues, decreasing his ownership, his founder shares kept him in control.
Dalio didn’t recede from public view either, often attracting criticism. In a CNBC interview in fall 2021, Dalio dismissed concerns about China’s human rights track record, likening the country’s government to a “strict parent.” (Bridgewater manages billions of dollars for companies partly owned by the Chinese government.)
“Should I not invest in the United States because of our own human rights leadership?” he asked.
The comments attracted reproach from Washington, where Sen. Mitt Romney labeled them a “sad moral lapse.” Clients called Bridgewater, asking whether Dalio’s views represented those of the firm, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The firm never addressed the matter publicly, though Dalio later said he had spoken sloppily.
The brouhaha did not appear to soften his views. Inside Bridgewater, Dalio reasserted a rule dictating that he personally must review and edit the firm’s widely read economic newsletter, called the Daily Observations, for any mentions of China, lest others tone down his praise, one of the people said.
By then, although some at Bridgewater retained a fondness for Dalio and his history at the firm, others were apoplectic. That left Bar Dea, one of the co-CEOs, with the task of speeding up negotiations to get his boss out for good, two people with knowledge of the matter said. A former major in the Israeli Defense Forces and relative newcomer to the investing world, Bar Dea, now 41, joined Bridgewater in 2015 to perform economic research, and rose swiftly through the ranks.
In January 2022, he was elevated to the top role alongside Mark Bertolini, former CEO of Aetna, though current and former employees say it is Bar Dea who mainly deals with Dalio.
The back-and-forth between Dalio and Bridgewater’s senior leaders stretched on for much of 2022, with Dalio insisting that he would not simply hand over his life’s work.
Finally, the two sides agreed on a steep price. Dalio would surrender his titles, take on a new role as “mentor to the CIOs and investment committee,” and remain a member of the hedge fund’s board, according to an announcement by Bridgewater. (Last month, Bridgewater told clients that Bertolini would give up his co-CEO role to become a “CEO mentor.”)
Dalio also received a new, special class of personal stock that the firm informally calls “Ray’s shares,” which pay him the equivalent of a hefty dividend before anyone else at the firm is paid, two people with knowledge of the matter said.
Based on those arrangements — as well as how long Dalio lives, and how long Bridgewater survives — the payouts could reach billions of dollars.
Although Bridgewater delivered handsome returns for investors for the first three quarters of 2022, the firm’s flagship fund slumped in the fourth quarter, just months after Dalio’s departure in October. It fell an additional 7% in January, while stocks rose sharply.
That puts sharp pressure on the firm to turn things around. Bridgewater no longer posts its assets under management on its website. From its peak of around $160 billion, the amount was down to around $125 billion late last year, according to people familiar with the firm.
In the meantime, Bar Dea has begun dismantling some parts of Dalio’s legacy. Bridgewater dropped many of his “Principles,” and their associated ratings tools. Giving unvarnished feedback to one another — a stalwart of Dalio’s “radical transparency” — is now optional, current employees said.
Still, some of Bar Dea’s changes have a hint of the hedge fund’s old ways. He has recently taken to telling employees that he is coming up with his own list of “Principles.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Leadership; Retirement; Investments; Hedge funds; Human rights; Employees

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Retirement Hedge funds Employees

Location: China

People: Dalio, Ray

Company / organization: Name: Bridgewater Associates LP; NAICS: 523920

Identifier / keyword: Business; Romney, Mitt; Google Inc; Aetna Inc; Cnbc; SalesforceCom Inc; Starbucks Corporation; Linkedin Corporation; Pennsylvania; Israel; United States; Mccormick, David H (1965 ); Page, Larry; Brin, Sergey; Bar Dea, Nir; Bertolini, Mark T; Daily, The (News Corp); Schultz, Howard D; Senate; China; Dalio, Raymond (1949 ); Bridgewater Associates; Benioff, Marc; Elections, House Of Representatives; Pensions And Retirement Plans; Chinese Americans; Economic Conditions And Trends; Organized Labor; Sovereign Wealth Funds; Corporate Social Responsibility; Primaries And Caucuses; Elections, Senate; International Relations; Foreign Investments; United States Politics And Government; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Workplace Environment; Retirement; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Appointments And Executive Changes; Stocks And Bonds; High Net Worth Individuals; Executive Compensation; Elections; Politics And Government; Television; Compensation For Damages (Law); Hedge Funds

Title: Hedge Fund Billionaire Extracts Billions More to Retire

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 20, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-20 @ 13:23

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2777974853

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hedge-fund-billionaire-extracts-billions-more/docview/2777974853/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Behind a Fund Founder's Exit: A Deal to Add to His Billions: [National Desk]

Author: Copeland, Rob; Farrell, Maureen

Publication info: Copeland, Rob; Farrell, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/behind-fund-founders-exit-deal-add-his-billions/docview/2777961344/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Bridgewater's founder, Ray Dalio, retired last year after months of negotiations that guaranteed him a gigantic exit package.
When Ray Dalio, the multibillionaire founder of the world's biggest hedge fund, Bridgewater Associates, announced his retirement in October, both he and the firm he founded more than four decades ago treated the moment as celebratory.
Mr. Dalio, 73, told his millions of followers on LinkedIn that he felt "great about the people" to whom he had handed the reins. And one of Bridgewater's two new chief executives, Nir Bar Dea, sent an enthusiastic note to clients: "The transition from Ray is done!"
But neither Mr. Dalio, known for his creed of "radical transparency," nor Bridgewater said at the time, or since, that he had hardly gone without a fight. His exit -- partly spurred by controversial remarks he had made on television about China's human rights record -- followed more than six months of frantic behind-the-scenes wrangling over how much money his successors at the firm were willing to pay the billionaire to go away.
In the end, Mr. Dalio, with an estimated net worth of $ 19 billion, agreed to surrender his control over all key decisions at Bridgewater only if the firm agreed to give him what could amount to billions of dollars in regular payouts over the coming years through a special class of stock.
These secret arrangements were described by a half dozen current and former Bridgewater employees who said they risked angering Mr. Dalio and could be sued by the firm if they spoke publicly. At an internal meeting last year during the heat of the exit negotiations, Mr. Dalio described the hedge fund as his "property rights," according to one employee, and indicated that he expected to be compensated accordingly.
Mr. Dalio did not respond to requests for comment.
Bridgewater, which manages roughly $ 125 billion on behalf of public pensions and sovereign wealth funds, is dealing with a situation that's becoming increasingly common across corporate America. Builders of companies big and small appear unwilling to let go, or are asked to step back in when there is turbulence.
Recently, Marc Benioff, of the technology giant Salesforce, returned to solo leadership of the company he co-founded in 1999 and cut around 8,000 jobs. Howard Schultz, now on his third go-round in the chief executive of Starbucks, has appeared intent on crushing efforts across the company to unionize store workers.
Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, have stepped in and out of their company several times. And over the summer, Bill Conway, one of the founders of the investing behemoth Carlyle, took the reins after the chief executive left abruptly, and helped choose a new one this month.
While battles in the executive suite may seem far removed from the concerns of everyday American workers, strife in upper management often creates havoc lower in the ranks. In the investing world, upheaval can be such a distraction that fund performance suffers, squeezing retirees and others who count on steady returns from their investment managers.
Many founders, even after selling off a majority of their company, retain power because they hold a special class of shares that give them more voting rights than regular shares and allow them to maintain control over company decisions.
Mr. Dalio's relationship with Bridgewater goes well beyond that. He has been the firm's chief executive, chief investment officer and chairman -- sometimes solo, sometimes with partners and sometimes all at once.
At the same time, Mr. Dalio has portrayed himself publicly as a management guru of sorts, promoting an unusual workplace philosophy that he calls "radical transparency." The gist of it is that Bridgewater tapes most of its employee meetings and broadcasts them firm wide, as evidence that it is a place where hard truths can be spoken about openly.
He has discussed how he ranks employees in categories such as "willingness to touch the nerve" and "quick to learn from mistakes." Under his direction, Bridgewater spent millions of dollars on custom iPad software for employees to rank each other in real time on a 1-to-10 scale in dozens of personality categories.
In 2017, Mr. Dalio published "Principles," a best-selling book that laid out his leadership rules. ("Be willing to 'shoot the people you love,"' read one.) He has since become a regular speaker at TED conferences and is prolific on Twitter.
Mr. Dalio and Bridgewater rolled out his retirement plans more than a decade ago, in 2009, when he told the firm and its clients that he would begin to turn over his responsibilities. That proved easier said than done. Bridgewater cycled through a seemingly endless group of would-be chief executives as Mr. Dalio found reasons to reject nearly all of them, and vice versa.
One former co-chief executive, Eileen Murray, sued the firm for discrimination after she left in 2020, a matter later settled out of court. She had shared the role with David McCormick, who resigned a little over a year ago to run the Republican primary in Pennsylvania for the Senate, which he lost.
All the while, Mr. Dalio sent mixed signals on whether he would stay or go, telling staff and investors that he would leave only when he was certain that the right leadership was in place.
In mid-2018, Bridgewater said it would become a partnership as part of a long-term plan to move away from founder control. In theory, that should have transformed the firm into an entity controlled by its top employees rather than one man.
But Mr. Dalio wasted little time in telling colleagues that he was not interested in a simple passing of the baton, according to current and former employees. He approached dozens of top employees -- at the time, Bridgewater had roughly 1,500 full-time staff members -- and told them they would have to buy his shares with their own money, some of those employees said.
Mr. Dalio offered to arrange 10-year loans to those who lacked the funds to buy him out, according to two former employees. If they declined, he intimated that they should consider leaving the firm, they said. Still, even as he sold shares to his colleagues, decreasing his ownership, his founder shares kept him in control.
Mr. Dalio didn't recede from public view either, often attracting criticism. .
In a CNBC interview in the fall of 2021, Mr. Dalio dismissed concerns about China's human rights track record, likening the country's government to a "strict parent." (Bridgewater manages billions of dollars for companies partly owned by the Chinese government.)
"Should I not invest in the United States because of our own human rights leadership?" he asked.
The comments attracted reproach from Washington, where Senator Mitt Romney labeled them a "sad moral lapse." Clients called Bridgewater, asking whether Mr. Dalio's views represented those of the firm, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The firm never addressed the matter publicly, though Mr. Dalio later said he had spoken sloppily.
The brouhaha did not appear to soften his views. Inside Bridgewater, Mr. Dalio reasserted a rule dictating that he personally must review and edit the firm's widely read economic newsletter, called the Daily Observations, for any mentions of China, lest others tone down his praise, one of the people said.
By then, although some at Bridgewater retained a fondness for Mr. Dalio and his history at the firm, others were apoplectic. That left Mr. Bar Dea, one of the co-chief executives, with the task of speeding up negotiations to get his boss out for good, two people with knowledge of the matter said. A former major in the Israeli Defense Forces and relative newcomer to the investing world, Mr. Bar Dea, now 41, joined Bridgewater in 2015 to perform economic research, and rose swiftly through the ranks.
In January 2022, he was elevated to the top role alongside Mark Bertolini, former chief executive of Aetna, though current and former employees say it is Mr. Bar Dea who mainly deals with Mr. Dalio.
The back-and-forth between Mr. Dalio and Bridgewater's senior leaders stretched on for much of 2022, with Mr. Dalio insisting that he would not simply hand over his life's work.
Finally, the two sides agreed on a steep price. Mr. Dalio would surrender his titles, take on a new role as "mentor to the C.I.O.s and investment committee," and remain a member of the hedge fund's board, according to an announcement by Bridgewater. (Last month, Bridgewater told clients that Mr. Bertolini would give up his co-chief executive role to become a "C.E.O. mentor.")
Mr. Dalio also received a new, special class of personal stock that the firm informally calls "Ray's shares," which pay him the equivalent of a hefty dividend before anyone else at the firm is paid, two people with knowledge of the matter said.
Based on those arrangements -- as well as how long Mr. Dalio lives, and how long Bridgewater survives -- the payouts could reach billions of dollars.
Although Bridgewater delivered handsome returns for investors for the first three quarters of 2022, the firm's flagship fund slumped in the fourth quarter, just months after Mr. Dalio's departure in October. It fell an additional 7 percent in January, while stocks rose sharply.
That puts sharp pressure on the firm to turn things around. Bridgewater no longer posts its assets under management on its website. From its peak of around $ 160 billion, the amount was down to around $ 125 billion late last year, according to people familiar with the firm.
In the meantime, Mr. Bar Dea has begun dismantling some parts of Mr. Dalio's legacy. Bridgewater dropped many of his "Principles," and their associated ratings tools. Giving unvarnished feedback to one another -- a stalwart of Mr. Dalio's "radical transparency"-- is now optional, current employees said.
Still, some of Mr. Bar Dea's changes have a hint of the hedge fund's old ways. He has recently taken to telling employees that he is coming up with his own list of "Principles."
Photograph Ray Dalio, 73, Bridgewater's founder, is worth $ 19 billion. (A1); Ray Dalio in 2021. He gave up control of Bridgewater, the hedge fund he founded over four decades ago, at the end of last year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (A12) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12

Subject: Leadership; Retirement; Investments; Hedge funds; Human rights; Employees; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Retirement Hedge funds Employees Executives

Location: China

People: Dalio, Ray

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/19/business/bridgewater-ray-dalio-retire.html

Title: Behind a Fund Founder's Exit: A Deal to Add to His Billions:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 20, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2777961344

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/behind-fund-founders-exit-deal-add-his-billions/docview/2777961344/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Tech Cuts Back, Layoffs Surprise New Parents: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma; Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma; Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-tech-cuts-back-layoffs-surprise-new-parents/docview/2775520770/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At tech companies that spent recent years expanding paid parental leave, parents have felt the whiplash of mass layoffs in an especially visceral way.
Alex Gable spent recent weeks in the bleary-eyed haze of new parenthood. His son was born in November and Mr. Gable powered down his laptop, deleted Slack from his phone and focused on caring for his wife while making the most of the four precious hours a day that their baby was awake -- there was tummy time and time spent ogling little drawings of snowflakes.
Then on Jan. 18, Mr. Gable got an early morning notification for an all-hands meeting at Coda, the software company where he worked as a data scientist. Four hours later Mr. Gable, 30, found himself having to deliver the news to his wife: He had been laid off while on paternity leave -- months after choosing the company for its generous paternity leave policy and openness toward work-life balance.
"It's like an earthquake," he said. "It's the weight of 'What am I going to bring him up with? How is his first year going to go? How are you going to make ends meet?"'
Workers across the tech and media industries are experiencing a period of immense whiplash. After lavishing their employees with perks, in a tight labor market and a war for talent, companies have turned to mass job cuts, including Alphabet, which laid off 6 percent of its workers last month, and Microsoft, which cut nearly 5 percent.
These are the same companies that spent recent years expanding benefits in one area in particular: paid parental leave and caregiver benefits, which fill in the gaps for white-collar workers in a country where the federal government does not require employers to offer paid parental leave. Which means that working parents have felt the turbulence of mass layoffs in an especially visceral way.
Now some are spending their early weeks of parenthood adjusting to life without a job. LinkedIn and Twitter have been filled with accounts of workers being laid off while on parental leave or even, in at least two instances, while delivering a baby. That comes with a mental health toll -- as so many laid-off workers across different backgrounds have experienced, including those who are immigrants with visas tied to employment.
Employees across tech have felt that their companies engaged in a bait and switch, after selling not just a job but a lifestyle, with child care, mental health support and plentiful paid time off. For new parents, generous leave was part of the draw. Many had assumed that their parental leave came with some legal protection, and were distraught to learn they were caught up in mass job cuts. Being on parental leave does not protect someone from mass layoffs unrelated to their leave.
America has no federal paid-family-leave policy. About 23 percent of private employees have paid maternity leave, according to September 2022 data from the career site Zippia. More than 90 percent of women take the full amount of leave offered, compared with about two-thirds of men, according to a survey by the Boston College Center for Work and Family.
But in the last five years, companies scaled up family-friendly benefits for some workers in what human resources experts called the "golden age" of corporate benefits. A study from Mercer found that 54 percent of large companies covered in vitro fertilization in 2022, compared with 36 percent in 2015, and 19 percent covered egg freezing compared with 6 percent in 2015.
Tech companies were especially generous on parental leave compared with other industries. Google increased its parental leave to 24 weeks from 18 in 2021, Meta offers parents 20 weeks, and Microsoft gave 20 weeks for birthing parents and 12 weeks for nonbirthing parents. California, too, increased parental leave benefits to eight weeks from six. ZipRecruiter found that 849 out of 100,000 job postings offered paid parental leave in 2022, up from 95 out of 100,000 in 2017.
This expansion of family-friendly benefits was partly a bid for female talent, as historically male-dominated workplaces made commitments to bringing in more women. It also reflected a cultural shift, as a new generation of workers, across genders, made it clear they wanted the flexibility to play an active role in child care, according to Joan Williams, a professor at the University of California College of the Law, San Francisco.
"There's a sizable portion of young men who would be bent out of shape if they couldn't take family leave," Ms. Williams said. "Tech companies realized they could try to steal talent by having the best set of family leave policies around."
With these new perks also came an uptick in the share of men taking paternity leave. In 2011, fewer than 5 percent of new fathers took more than two weeks of paternity leave. Today, 90 percent of men take more than seven weeks of leave if they are offered eight weeks, according to the Boston College Center for Work and Family. Some managers started proactively asking male workers how they planned to use their leave time, leaving behind the culture of assuming that fathers would take off only a few days.
People on parental leave typically have no special legal protection when it comes to mass layoffs. Many workers have a legal right to take parental leave for the birth or adoption of a child, under the Family and Medical Leave Act, a federal law, or similar state laws. But being on leave, including for disability, doesn't usually protect people from job cuts that would have happened anyway.
"It's jarring because people do view it as job-protected leave without understanding that there are limits on the protection," said Megan Bisk, head of the employment law practice at Ropes & Gray. "Many people view it as a time when they're not in a position to be job searching."
If workers were laid off because they were on parental leave, that would be illegal -- but it would be difficult to prove, Ms. Bisk explained, because the criteria companies use for layoffs aren't disclosed to laid-off workers.
Emily St. James, 42, who was a senior correspondent at Vox, had been up late feeding her newborn the day before Vox Media announced its mass layoffs last month, so she slept in until 9 a.m. on the West Coast. She woke up to a text from Vox's publisher, then checked her email and saw that she had been laid off. Ms. St. James's termination date was set as the last day of her maternity leave, which is in late March, and she will get 24 weeks of severance pay beyond that.
"When it happened I think my wife said, 'Well, isn't that illegal?"' Ms. St. James recalled. "This has underscored for me the degree to which the social safety net for people who are new parents is very frayed."
Vox declined to comment for this article.
The lack of legal guidelines has resulted in a patchwork of policies among companies. For those laid off while on parental leave, Amazon is offering to pay out the remainder of their time off, as well as severance packages. Meta and Google, on the other hand, aren't paying for any remaining parental leave but are offering all employees several months of pay and additional severance.
Several workers who were laid off while on parental leave declined to speak for this article, citing fears of retribution because their severance packages are tied to agreements that they won't speak to the media.
Niki Woodall, who was an engineering leadership recruiter at one of the world's largest tech companies, agreed to share her experience without naming her employer. She had been at the company for five years when she told her bosses that she planned to take six months of maternity leave starting last summer. Their family-friendly attitude gave her the confidence to completely unplug from work. She said she left without thinking: "My job is at stake."
A month before she was set to return, she received a personal email letting her know that her job was being eliminated. She turned to her 4-month-old daughter, who was sitting beside the family cat, Wesa, and said, "Mommy lost her job."
"There's a big misperception that you can't be let go during maternity leave," said Ms. Woodall, 39. She was disappointed to lose her job but not surprised because the layoffs hit many fellow recruiters.
Other parents who lost their jobs said they wondered whether their absence from the office contributed to executives' deciding their position was redundant.
Some parental leave experts worry that fear of future layoffs could deter new fathers from taking their leave. As Brad Harrington, executive director of the Boston College Center for Work and Family, put it: "This will have a sobering effect."
Mr. Gable had a previous layoff experience, from Zillow, in 2021 -- at the height of the pandemic's white hot job market. The career opportunities felt endless -- including many at companies with generous policies toward parents. He chose Coda because he sensed that managers there were supportive of workers taking time for their families. As he prepares to apply for tech jobs yet again, his options feel far more limited.
"Its weird to have that pulled out from under you," he said. "The market conditions are basically the opposite right now."
Photograph Alex Gable, a data scientist, was laid off from the software company Coda last month while he was on parental leave. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRANT HINDSLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); A month before Niki Woodall was set to return from maternity leave, an email told her that her job was eliminated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Labor law; Family leave; Severance pay; Child care; Maternity & paternity leaves; Employees; Layoffs; Employment; Working parents; Work life balance; Professionals; Employee benefits; White collar workers; High tech industries

Business indexing term: Subject: Labor law Family leave Severance pay Maternity & paternity leaves Employees Layoffs Employment Working parents Work life balance Professionals Employee benefits White collar workers High tech industries

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Go ogle Inc; NAICS: 334310, 519290

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/09/business/layoffs-parental-leave.html

Title: As Tech Cuts Back, Layoffs Surprise New Parents:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 13, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775520770

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-tech-cuts-back-layoffs-surprise-new-parents/docview/2775520770/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Young, in Love and Learning How to Talk About Finances: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Perhach, Paulette

Publication info: Perhach, Paulette. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/young-love-learning-how-talk-about-finances/docview/2775347532/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For a boyfriend's 30th birthday a few years ago, Mykail James made reservations at the Capital Grille steakhouse in Baltimore, and booked a suite at the Kimpton Hotel Monaco, a four-star hotel. But later, when she tried to charge the valet parking to their room, he pulled out his wallet and tried to pay.
When she covered their drinks at the hotel bar before dinner, he turned to her and said, "You can't pay for anything else."
He insisted on paying for his own birthday dinner and pulled out his wallet again when they checked out of the hotel. Ms. James reminded him that it was his birthday.
"It was pretty offensive to him," Ms. James, 27, said about her spending. "But we had never had that conversation before." She wishes that she and her boyfriend at the time had discussed their financial values before what should have been a special night turned into something awkward.
As gender roles, technology and the economy shift under their feet, young couples are contending with how to bring up finances in their romantic relationships.
The internet provides plenty of opportunities to avoid deep talks. Investigating a partner's social media presence can make it easier to learn about his or her money. Ms. James researches a romantic interest before a date, she said.
"If you tell me your name, I'm going to go on LinkedIn," she said. "I'll look at what your position is, and then I'll go on Glassdoor and see how much money you're making."
She does this, she said, because men are sometimes intimidated by how much she earns as a program scheduler in the defense industry. Because people can see who looks at their LinkedIn profile, she thinks that they'll probably look at hers, too.
"I need to know that I can incorporate you in my life," Ms. James said. "I spend money on the lifestyle that I enjoy, and I don't have any intentions of downgrading my lifestyle to make anybody else feel more comfortable."
Opening a line of communication
Tessa Miller Kiesz, 21, and her partner, Nicholas Brester, 22, had been living together for about two months when they decided to adopt a kitten named Rue. The adoption fee -- $ 300, which included neutering -- prompted one of their first conversations about money. They had been working as ranch hands in Montana and earned equal salaries, and Rue was their first bill to split.
The adoption started a shared financial journey that took them from Montana to New York, where Ms. Miller Kiesz started theater school and works in pottery and as a part-time nanny. Mr. Brester freelances on Off Broadway shows, mostly as a technical director.
The volatile nature of life in the performing arts makes it difficult to split everything 50-50.
"When it's good, it's really good. When it's bad, it's really bad," Mr. Brester said. "And sometimes artists just don't have that luxury of consistency."
Ms. Miller Kiesz and Mr. Brester have had to get more granular with their financial discussions, especially around date nights. They try to be more spontaneous, but cost-conscious, by using, for example, the New York Public Library's Culture Pass program to receive free admission to museums. They also lay out in advance if they're going to split a date or if one of them will treat the other.
"I think the way that works best with us is always having that almost emotional and financial prep going into it," Ms. Miller Kiesz said. Bringing up Venmo during a date, she said, would remove the romance from an evening out.
But Ms. Miller Kiesz is comfortable with asking Mr. Brester to pay her back while she's in line at the grocery store. She said these single-digit conversations opened up a line of communication, allowing them to talk about larger financial issues.
"It does kind of feel like an act of love within itself to open those conversations at the right time, when you know your partner's in a good space, and to allow those moments to flow a little bit better," she said.
Recently, Mr. Brester cooked her an enchilada lasagna, a twist on her favorite meal, and didn't mention anything about the groceries. Ms. Miller Kiesz found this romantic.
'What does this look like for us?'
Moriah Chace had been seeing her girlfriend for about three months when her girlfriend asked her, "Is there anything that you think we don't see eye to eye on?"
"And I was honestly like, 'I'm not sure if we see eye to eye on finances, and I would like to talk about that more,"' Ms. Chace, 25, said.
She described her partner as a risk-taker who found the conversation difficult, because she felt financially behind.
"I'm still in $ 6,000 of credit card debt, so I'm not perfect," said Ms. Chace, a brand strategist and an entrepreneur who lives in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. "And me bringing up my debt makes them feel comfortable to bring up their levels of debt."
In a same-sex couple, "usually the culture is to go Dutch, so you pay for your half, they pay for their half," she said. She likes to be the one to hold doors, buy gifts and show the care that she was given when she was in heteronormative relationships. But her partner, she said, doesn't always appreciate being on the receiving end.
"So we've had to kind of navigate: OK, what does this look like for us?" Ms. Chace said. "And I think for every couple, especially in same-sex relationships, it's very different."
They also have to navigate the wage gap found in the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
"We face a lot more discrimination in the workplace," Ms. Chase said. "We make a lot less than the average straight person does." She added: "Part of same-sex relationships is bucking the patriarchy, just in their inherent nature. And there's a lot of patriarchy in the money rules."
The importance of talking offline
Rather than have a conversation about how to split expenses, one partner's opinion might simply show up as a Venmo request for half a bill.
"In some ways it seems very transparent, because you see everybody's transactions," Lindsay Bryan-Podvin, a financial therapist, said about payment apps. "But then on the other hand, it has almost made it difficult to have those conversations, because they're so used to doing them over screen."
She compares the situation to the way it seems that everyone's on social media and yet there's a loneliness epidemic. Information may be passing, but connections aren't being made.
"Research shows that couples who talk about money report being happier than those that don't, because it helps develop a deeper intimacy, because both people have to be vulnerable," Ms. Bryan-Podvin said. "Both people have to have a good amount of mutual respect and trust in their partner in order to have that conversation."
It's OK to start with acknowledging how awkward it is. It's also OK to start with written communication.
"I'm not anti-digital conversation," Ms. Bryan-Podvin said. "I like a digital conversation to kind of get things going."
She recommends texting your partner to give a heads-up that you'd like to talk about money in person on a particular day, or even starting with a written message about what you'd like to communicate.
Andrew Giancola, who hosts "The Personal Finance Podcast," suggests reframing talking about money as lots of micro-conversations about money.
"I think the micro-conversations are way more important, because if you have just one giant money talk, a lot of times emotions get involved," he said. "And when that happens on both sides, you can cause a lot of friction."
Start by asking a partner about his or her job satisfaction and goals, and what a dream life looks like.
You could even pass along an article about money like this one to start the conversation.
Beyond splitting bills
Lauren Ebersol and José Ureña started dating when they were 16, and they felt too broke to talk about money until five years later, when they moved in together. They're now 28 and married, living in Burlington, Vt. Ms. Ebersol is a product manager for a biotech company, and Mr. Ureña is a product developer for Ben & Jerry's.
As they started to split costs, they signed up for a joint credit card and started using it for groceries, bills, shared meals and anything they'll both enjoy. They each pay for their own classes and books and any separate travel. A quick scroll through her Venmo feed makes Ms. Ebersol suspect that splitting things down the middle is more common among couples their age, as posts labeled "internet bill" or "groceries" pass between two people in love.
Mr. Ureña points out that money conversations can't just stop at how you'll split the bills.
"It's also about what you're choosing to spend money on or what you're saving toward," he said. "I feel like probably 10 or 15 years ago, it would have been to buy a house, right? That would have been your big goal. I know initially it was our goal, about a few years ago. But now we like renting, because it gives us flexibility."
As does keeping their bank accounts separate. "Because divorces are so messy," Mr. Ureña said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU6.

Subject: Patriarchy; Couples; Birthdays; Verbal communication; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Montana; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https: //www.nytimes.com/2023/02/12/business/couples-relationships-money.html

Title: Young, in Love and Learning How to Talk About Finances:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Documenttype: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347532

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/young-love-learning-how-talk-about-finances/docview/2775347532/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New York City Commissioner Of Social Services Resigns: [National Desk]

Author: Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Newman, Andy

Publication info: Fitzsimmons, Emma G; Newman, Andy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-city-commissioner-social-services/docview/2774028216/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Gary Jenkins, who has been criticized for his handling of the homeless crisis, said he would step down in a television interview Tuesday night.
New York City's embattled social services commissioner, who has faced criticism over his handling of the city's homelessness crisis, said in a television interview on Tuesday that he is resigning.
The commissioner, Gary Jenkins, has overseen the city's response to one of the greatest challenges facing New York City as the homeless population hit a record last year.
"I've decided to step down from my position as commissioner for the Department of Social Services and explore other opportunities that have been presented to me," Mr. Jenkins said in an interview on NY1.
It was revealed last August that Mr. Jenkins was being investigated by the city's Department of Investigation over his response to families applying for shelter. At the time, Mayor Eric Adams defended him and said that he had the "utmost confidence" in him.
"There's no discord," Mr. Jenkins said on Tuesday. "There's no running away. This was something that was already planned."
The administration has continued to struggle to respond to an increase in homelessness, both among city residents and from an influx of migrants from the Southern border. The city's homeless population has risen this month to more than 77,000 people, by far the most ever recorded and an increase of over 70 percent since May.
The investigation of Mr. Jenkins stemmed from his handling of cases where homeless families had to stay overnight at a Bronx intake office. The overnight stays violated the city's right-to-shelter law and came as officials scrambled to cope with a surge in migrants entering the system.
The ongoing inquiry involves allegations that Mr. Jenkins sought to hide that people had slept at the intake office, according to a former top official with the city Department of Homeless Services and another person with knowledge of the investigation.
In August, a spokeswoman for the Social Services Department who was fired, Julia Savel, was interviewed for three hours about the matter by officials from the Investigation Department.
Mr. Jenkins also received criticism for partying on a yacht as the crisis unfolded in August. He has kept a relatively low profile since then, often missing events like the announcement of a plan to house migrants in giant tents.
Mr. Adams, a Democrat in his second year in office, said in a statement that Mr. Jenkins would step down next month and that he had helped bring homeless people off the subway into shelters.
"I'm incredibly grateful to Gary for his decades of service and wish him the very best in his next chapter," the mayor said.
For the moment, the first deputy commissioner in the city Department of Homeless Services, Molly Wasow Park, will become the acting social services commissioner, a spokesman for Mr. Adams said.
Ms. Park currently oversees rehousing and capacity planning for the agency and has worked for 20 years in affordable housing and social services and was the chief operations officer of the Settlement Housing Fund, a nonprofit.
Mr. Jenkins was appointed by Mr. Adams in January 2022 as the commissioner of the Department of Social Services, which oversees both the Human Resources Administration and the Department of Homeless Services. Mr. Adams said he hired him in part because Mr. Jenkins had been homeless himself.
"I chose him because he lived in a homeless shelter as a child," Mr. Adams said last year. "I chose him because of his dedication and commitment. And I think this city is -- we're at a better place because we have a compassionate leader like him."
Mr. Jenkins said he had worked at city agencies for more than three decades. He started as an eligibility specialist at the Human Resources Administration in 1989, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Still, Mr. Jenkins struggled to respond as the city's homeless population grew. New York City has a "right to shelter" policy and is the only place in the country where every person who seeks a bed must be given one.
Ms. Savel was terminated after she challenged Mr. Jenkins's handling of the overnight stays, NBC New York reported in August. On July 20, as word of the violations spread, Ms. Savel texted a colleague who works in the mayor's press office that Mr. Jenkins "was trying to not tell City Hall that we broke the law."
Text messages that Mr. Jenkins sent a deputy mayor, Anne Williams-Isom, showed that he had told her on July 18 that people had just stayed overnight at the intake shelter and that he understood that this should not have happened.
Shams DaBaron, a homeless advocate who has worked closely with Mr. Adams and Mr. Jenkins, said that Mr. Jenkins had showed compassion for homeless people and made progress on "repairing decades of failed policies."
"I think he did a great job," he said, "considering the difficult circumstances we're dealing with."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Homeless people; Social services

Location: New York City New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/07/nyregion/gary-jenkins-resign-nyc-homeless.html

Title: New York City Commissioner Of Social Services Resigns:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 8, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2774028216

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-city-commissioner-social-services/docview/2774028216/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New Jersey Councilwoman Is Fatally Shot: [National Desk]

Author: Tully, Tracey; Daniel, Victor

Publication info: Tully, Tracey; Daniel, Victor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-jersey-councilwoman-is-fatally-shot/docview/2771842700/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Eunice K. Dwumfour, 30, was found dead in her car with multiple gunshot wounds on Wednesday night. She was serving her first term on the Sayreville Borough Council.
SAYREVILLE, N.J. -- Eunice K. Dwumfour, a 30-year-old councilwoman serving her first term in Sayreville, N.J., was fatally shot on Wednesday night, officials said.
Officers with the Sayreville Police Department responded to reports of a shooting at 7:22 p.m. in Parlin, an unincorporated area of Sayreville, and found Ms. Dwumfour in her car with multiple gunshot wounds, according to a statement by the Middlesex County prosecutor's office. She was pronounced dead at the scene.
The shooting took place at Camelot at La Mer, a complex of three-story apartment buildings and duplex homes that backs up against the Garden State Parkway and is within view of the Jon Bon Jovi rest stop. On Thursday morning, investigators were searching a wooded hill near the parkway, which is accessible by foot from the neighborhood. The Sayreville police had set up a command post on Ms. Dwumfour's street, Check Avenue. Investigators were reaching into shrubbery and bushes near the shooting, in what appeared to be a search for a weapon.
Ms. Dwumfour was found in a white vehicle, which had rolled down the avenue's steep incline before crashing into two cars at the bottom of the hill, according to police officers at the scene. The authorities did not say whether there was a suspect in the crime and have not offered any information about a possible motive. An investigation is ongoing.
Victoria Kilpatrick, the mayor of Sayreville, said in a statement that "the fact that she was taken from us by a despicable criminal act makes this incident all the more horrifying."
Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey said he was "stunned" by the "act of gun violence," adding that Ms. Dwumfour "had already built a reputation as a committed member of the Borough Council who took her responsibility with the utmost diligence and seriousness."
Sayreville, with a population of about 45,000 people, is in Middlesex County, about 30 miles south of Manhattan.
Kennedy O'Brien, a Republican who served as mayor of Sayreville for two decades, described Ms. Dwumfour as the embodiment of the American dream. Her roots were in Ghana, he said, but she had forged a success story that took her from Newark to suburban central New Jersey.
She remained active in her church in Newark, he said, and was "deeply faithful."
A single mother, she had gotten married just after Thanksgiving last year.
"Self-made, self-motivated, driven, disciplined," Mr. O'Brien said.
"She just had so much to give," he added. "It's just an incredible loss."
Glenn Skarzynski, a retired Sayreville police captain who recently took over as the borough's business administrator, said the community was reeling at the news.
He said that Ms. Dwumfour's church, and her preteen daughter, were at the center of her life. "Her daily life was all about being a Christian first and everything else second," he said.
Alexandra Bryan, who lives in the residential complex where the shooting occurred, said she heard something that sounded like fireworks just after 7 p.m. Wednesday.
"Two times, right after one another," Ms. Bryan, 40, said. "Like five seconds apart."
On Thursday morning, she went outside and spotted damage to two cars parked in the lot where the shooting took place. Other residents said the car the councilwoman was in when she was shot appeared to roll and strike the parked vehicles.
"It's a really nice complex," Ms. Bryan said. "Children are able to play around without parents. It's always quiet. That's why it's such a shock to everybody."
Ms. Dwumfour was elected to the Sayreville Borough Council in 2021 after she and another Republican candidate, Christian Onuoha, unseated two Democratic incumbents on the six-person council. She was serving a three-year term.
In a statement about her campaign on the Sayreville Republican Party's website, Ms. Dwumfour said she loved and cherished Sayreville and wanted to help improve the lives of its residents. "I am fully dedicated to building a better, stronger Sayreville, and with your support, we can create a brighter future for our wonderful town," she said.
Ms. Dwumfour, who graduated from Newark Public Schools, was a business analyst and a professional scrum master, a type of project manager, with background work in both Maryland and Virginia, according to her LinkedIn profile. In 2017, she received a bachelor's degree in women's studies from William Paterson University of New Jersey.
Karen Bailey Bebert, the Sayreville Republican chair who was Ms. Dwumfour's campaign manager, said in an interview on Thursday that the councilwoman was an "inspirational woman" who was excited to get into politics at a young age. She overcame challenges "with grit and a smile," she said.
Ms. Dwumfour "took on the challenge of this leadership position at a young age and she set a great example for others to follow: If you can see me, you can be me," Ms. Bebert said.
Derrick Bryson Taylor contributed reporting.
Derrick Bryson Taylor contributed reporting.
Photograph Police on Thursday at the scene of the shooting. Ms. Dwumfour was serving her first term on the Sayreville Borough Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN ANSELM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Eunice K. Dwumfour This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Shootings; Councils; Criminal investigations

Location: United States--US; New Jersey

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/02/nyregion/eunice-dwumfour-sayreville-shooting-nj.html

Title: New Jersey Councilwoman Is Fatally Shot:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771842700

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-jersey-councilwoman-is-fatally-shot/docview/2771842700/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New Jersey Councilwoman Is Fatally Shot, Officials Say

Author: Tully, Tracey; Daniel, Victor

Publication info: Tully, Tracey; Daniel, Victor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-jersey-councilwoman-is-fatally-shot-officials/docview/2771677650/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAYREVILLE, N.J. — Eunice K. Dwumfour, a 30-year-old councilwoman serving her first term in Sayreville, New Jersey, was fatally shot on Wednesday night, officials said.
Officers with the Sayreville Police Department responded to reports of a shooting at 7:22 p.m. in Parlin, an unincorporated area of Sayreville, and found Dwumfour in her car with multiple gunshot wounds, according to a statement by the Middlesex County prosecutor’s office. She was pronounced dead at the scene.
The shooting took place at Camelot at La Mer, a complex of neatly kept three-story apartment buildings and duplex homes that backs up against the Garden State Parkway and is within view of the Jon Bon Jovi rest stop. On Thursday morning, investigators were searching a wooded hill near the parkway, which is accessible by foot from the neighborhood. The Sayreville police had set up a command post on Dwumfour’s street, Check Avenue. Investigators were reaching into shrubbery and bushes near the shooting, in what appeared to be a search for a weapon.
Dwumfour was found in a white vehicle, which had rolled down the avenue’s steep incline before crashing into two cars at the bottom of the hill, according to police officers at the scene. Authorities did not say whether there was a suspect in the crime and have not offered any information about a possible motive. An investigation is ongoing.
Victoria Kilpatrick, the mayor of Sayreville, said in a statement that “the fact that she was taken from us by a despicable criminal act makes this incident all the more horrifying.”
Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey said he was “stunned” by the “act of gun violence,” adding that Dwumfour “had already built a reputation as a committed member of the Borough Council who took her responsibility with the utmost diligence and seriousness.”
Sayreville, with a population of about 45,000 people, is in Middlesex County, about 30 miles south of Manhattan.
Kennedy O’Brien, a Republican who served as mayor of Sayreville for two decades, described Dwumfour as the embodiment of the American dream. Her roots were in Ghana, he said, but she had forged a success story that took her from Newark to suburban central New Jersey.
She remained active in her church in Newark, he said, and was “deeply faithful.”
A single mother, she had gotten married just after Thanksgiving last year.
“Self-made, self-motivated, driven, disciplined,” O’Brien said.
“She just had so much to give,” he added. “It’s just an incredible loss.”
Glenn Skarzynski, a retired Sayreville police captain who recently took over as the borough’s business administrator, said the community was reeling at the news.
He said that Dwumfour’s church, and her preteen daughter, were at the center of her life. “Her daily life was all about being a Christian first and everything else second,” he said.
Alexandra Bryan, who lives in the residential complex where the shooting occurred, said she heard something that sounded like fireworks just after 7 p.m. Wednesday.
“Two times, right after one another,” Bryan, 40, said. “Like five seconds apart.”
On Thursday morning, she went outside and spotted damage to two cars parked in the lot where the shooting took place. Other residents said the car the councilwoman was in when she was shot appeared to roll and strike the parked vehicles.
“It’s a really nice complex,” Bryan said. “Children are able to play around without parents. It’s always quiet. That’s why it’s such a shock to everybody.”
Dwumfour was elected to the Sayreville Borough Council in 2021 after she and another Republican candidate, Christian Onuoha, unseated two Democratic incumbents on the six-person council. She was serving a three-year term.
In a statement about her campaign on the Sayreville Republican Party’s website, Dwumfour said she loved and cherished Sayreville and wanted to help improve the lives of its residents. “I am fully dedicated to building a better, stronger Sayreville, and with your support, we can create a brighter future for our wonderful town,” she said.
Dwumfour, who graduated from Newark Public Schools, was a business analyst and a professional scrum master, a type of project manager, with background work in both Maryland and Virginia, according to her LinkedIn profile. In 2017, she received a bachelor’s degree in women’s studies from William Paterson University of New Jersey.
Karen Bailey Bebert, the Sayreville Republican chair who was Dwumfour’s campaign manager, said in an interview on Thursday that the councilwoman was an “inspirational woman” who was excited to get into politics at a young age. She overcame challenges “with grit and a smile,” she said.
Dwumfour “took on the challenge of this leadership position at a young age and she set a great example for others to follow: If you can see me, you can be me,” Bebert said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Shootings; Councils

Location: New York; United States--US; New Jersey

Identifier / keyword: United States; Ghana; Bon Jovi, Jon; Garden State Parkway (Nj); Children And Childhood; Gardens And Gardening; Police; Elections; Automobiles; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Maryland; William Paterson University; Virginia; Linkedin Corporation; Newark (Nj); Murphy, Philip D (1957 ); New York City; Middlesex County (Nj); Republican Party; New Jersey; Sayreville (Nj); Education (K 12); Local Government

Title: New Jersey Councilwoman Is Fatally Shot, Officials Say

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 2, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-02 @ 14:24

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771677650

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-jersey-councilwoman-is-fatally-shot-officials/docview/2771677650/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hard Drinking and Murky Finances: How an American Veterans Group Imploded in Ukraine

Author: Gettleman, Jeffrey

Publication info: Gettleman, Jeffrey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hard-drinking-murky-finances-how-american/docview/2771496350/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
KYIV, Ukraine — Andrew Milburn, a former American Marine colonel and leader of the Mozart Group, stood in a chilly meeting room on the second floor of an apartment building in Kyiv about to deliver some bad news. In front of him sat half a dozen men who had traveled to Ukraine on their own dime to work for him.
“Guys, I’m gutted,” he said. “The Mozart Group is dead.”
The men stared back at him with blank faces.
One asked as he walked toward the door, “What should I do with my helmet?”
The Mozart Group, one of the most prominent, private American military organizations in Ukraine, has collapsed under a cloud of accusations ranging from financial improprieties to alcohol-addled misjudgments. Its struggles provide a revealing window into the world of foreign volunteer groups that have flocked to Ukraine with noble intentions only to be tripped up by the stresses of managing a complicated enterprise in a war zone.
“I’ve seen this happen many times,” said one of Mozart’s veteran trainers, who, like many others, spoke only anonymously out of concerns that the Russians might target him. “You got to run these groups like a business. We didn’t do that.”
Hundreds if not thousands of foreign veterans and volunteers have passed through Ukraine. Many of them, like Milburn and his group, are hard-living men who have spent their adult lives steeped in violence, solo flyers trying to work together in a very dangerous environment without a lot of structure or rules.
The Mozart Group thrived at first, training Ukrainian troops, rescuing civilians from the front lines and raising more than $1 million in donations to finance it all. But then the money began to run out.
After months struggling to hold itself together, Mozart was plagued by defections, infighting, a break-in at its office headquarters and a lawsuit filed by the company’s chief financial officer, Andrew Bain, seeking the ouster of Milburn.
The lawsuit, filed in Wyoming, where Mozart is registered as a limited liability company, is a litany of petty and serious allegations, accusing Milburn among other things of making derogatory comments about Ukraine’s leadership while “significantly intoxicated,” letting his dog urinate in a borrowed apartment and “diverting company funds” and other financial malfeasance.
“I’ll be the first to admit that I’m flawed,” said Milburn, who acknowledged in an interview that he had been drinking when he made the comments on Ukraine. “We all are.” But he denied the more serious allegations about financial improprieties, calling them “utterly ridiculous.”
When Milburn showed up in Ukraine in early March last year, the capital, Kyiv, was seemingly on the precipice. Russian forces were blasting their way in from the suburbs and Ukraine was rushing thousands of inexperienced soldiers to the front.
That’s when, through a mutual friend, Milburn, 59, met Bain, 58. Also a former Marine colonel, Bain had been working in media and marketing in Ukraine for more than 30 years. “The Two Andys,” as Mozart employees would come to call them, shared a vision of doing whatever they could to help Ukraine win the war.
Milburn, whose career has tracked America’s wars of the past three decades, from Somalia to Iraq, had both the combat experience and the contacts. He counts Marine heavyweights like the author Bing West and a former defense secretary, Gen. James Mattis, as friends.
Bain had the organization. For eight years, since Russia invaded eastern Ukraine in 2014, he had been running the Ukrainian Freedom Fund, a charity he set up that turned donations into desperately needed gear for the Ukrainian military.
The two founded Mozart, the name a saucy response to the Russian mercenary force that uses the name of another famous composer, the Wagner Group. They also ran a short-lived podcast called “Two Marines in Kyiv.”
But they had very different styles. Milburn is gregarious, comfortable in the spotlight — he wrote a searing memoir — and by his own admission, hot tempered. Bain, who studied classics at Yale, is more reserved and cerebral.
From the beginning, there were tensions, both said. “For 30 minutes he’s the most charming man in the world,” Bain said of Milburn. “But at minute 31, you’re like, ‘Wait, something’s not working back there.’”
Milburn said that while he did not want to insult Bain, “the facts speak for themselves, and I can’t give any more insights into his character than what he’s done.”
With the Ukrainian military desperate for all the Western support it could get, Mozart quickly expanded from a handful of combat vets to more than 50 employees from a dozen countries. The group’s two specialties became last-chance extractions of civilians trapped on the front lines, which was extremely dangerous work, and condensed military training.
As spring passed to summer, more Ukrainian military units asked Mozart for training. But the Ukrainians could not pay for it, leaving Mozart reliant on a small pool of steady donors, including a group of East Coast financiers with Jewish-Ukrainian roots and a Texas tycoon.
Everyone involved said it became stressful just making payroll. And several employees said that the way the money flowed into the organization, which was overseen by Bain, was opaque.
“I can’t tell you how many people would come up to me at a party and said, “Hey, Marty, I love what you’re doing. I want to give you $10,000,” said Martin Wetterauer, one of Milburn’s old Marine friends and Mozart’s operations chief. “But we would never know if the money actually came in.”
Bain said he did absolutely nothing wrong and provided financial information whenever it was asked for, which was rare.
On top of that, the people Mozart hired were not the easiest to manage. Many were grizzled combat vets who admitted to struggling with PTSD and heavy drinking. When they weren’t working, they gravitated to Kyiv’s strip clubs, bars and online dating.
“There was a lot of cursing, a lot of womanizing, a lot of things you wouldn’t want to take to Mass,” said another trainer, Rob.
In September, they lost an important funding stream when a charity called Allied Extract decided to use less expensive Ukrainian teams to rescue civilians. By November, Mozart was so short of cash that Milburn, Bain and Wetterauer gave up their salaries of several hundred dollars a day.
Bain, who owned 51% of the company then approached Milburn, who held the other 49%, about separating, both men said in interviews. Bain asked Milburn to pay $5 million to buy him out but Milburn refused, saying there was no way he could come up with such a sum. The two soon stopped talking.
On Dec. 11, a Sunday morning, Milburn and a couple of employees went to the company’s headquarters, housed in a Kyiv building Bain owns, to retrieve winter jackets, body armor and some personal luggage locked in a storeroom.
When a security guard refused to let them in, one of Milburn’s men pinned him against a wall while Milburn kicked down the door. He later said they needed the gear for missions in Donbas, the eastern Ukraine region under relentless Russian attack.
Not long after that, a clip of Milburn disparaging Ukraine’s leadership circulated widely on social media. “I happen to have a Ukraine flag tied to my bag, but I’m not, ‘Oh my God, Ukraine is so awesome,’” he said. “I understand that there are plenty of screwed-up people running Ukraine.”
The clip was taken from The Team House podcast, in which guests are invited into a living room setting to drink hard liquor with the hosts. “Of course I shouldn’t have said that,” Milburn acknowledged.
As soon as Bain filed the lawsuit on Jan. 10, an internecine social media battle exploded. Bain published the allegations on Mozart’s Facebook page, which he controls, and Milburn fired back nasty comments about Bain from Mozart’s LinkedIn page, which he controls.
“It was like a domestic dispute,” Rob said.
But of more than half-dozen employees interviewed for this article, all expressed sympathy for Milburn. Even after the final meeting, on Tuesday, several said he was an inspiring leader and they were waiting to see if he could raise the funds to put them back to work.
Milburn has rented a new office in Kyiv and says he is determined to resurrect the operation.
“I dream of going back to Donbas,” he said. “When you’re out there, and you’re scared, everything else shrinks into the shadows. You’re not thinking about money. You’re not thinking about your reputation.”
But he’s not going back to the front anytime soon. He spent hours this week in front of his laptop. He’s scouting out new business, such as training courses for hostile environments. He’s writing emails to donors.
And he’s talking to his lawyers. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Invasions; Leadership; Veterans; Military training; Employees; Armed forces; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Employees Social networks

Location: Kyiv Ukraine; Ukraine

Company / organization: Name: Wetterauer; NAICS: 423120

Identifier / keyword: World; Yale University; United States Marine Corps; Somalia; Iraq; Texas; Massachusetts; Gettleman, Jeffrey; Linkedin Corporation; Facebook Inc; Mattis, James N; Wagner Group; East Coast (Us); Donbas (Ukraine); West, Bing; Milburn, Andrew (1963 ); Mozart Group Llc; Russia; Kyiv (Ukraine); Ukraine; Bain, Andrew (1964 ); Anxiety And Stress; Wages And Sal aries; Podcasts; Liver; Seasons And Months; News And News Media; Men And Boys; Ethics And Official Misconduct; United States Defense And Military Forces; Workplace Environment; Civilian Casualties; Embezzlement; Hiring And Promotion; Social Media; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Mercenaries And Private Military Contractors; Corporations; Labor And Jobs; Philanthropy; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Defense And Military Forces; Veterans

Title: Hard Drinking and Murky Finances: How an American Veterans Group Imploded in Ukraine

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 1, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-01 @ 22:01

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771496350

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hard-drinking-murky-finances-how-american/docview/2771496350/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Layoffs by Email Are Cruel and Unnecessary: [Op-Ed]

Author: Spiers, Elizabeth

Publication info: Spiers, Elizabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-email-are-cruel-unnecessary/docview/2770841651/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Google's parent company, Alphabet, recently announced that it would lay off around 12,000 people, 6 percent of its work force. Employees who were let go, some of whom had worked for the company for decades, got the news in their inboxes. "It's hard for me to believe that after 20 years at #Google I unexpectedly find out about my last day via an email," a Google engineer, Jeremy Joslin, tweeted. "What a slap in the face."
That sting is becoming an all-too-common sensation. In the last few years, tens of thousands of people have been laid off by email at tech and digital media companies, including Twitter, Amazon, Meta and Vox. The backlash from affected employees has been swift.
Employees at a tech company called PagerDuty received notices last week that set a new low bar for a layoff announcement, starting off with a few hundred words of cheery blather and rounding out with a Martin Luther King Jr. quotation about overcoming adversity.
It's not just tech and media. Companies in a range of industries claim this is the only efficient way to do a lot of layoffs. Informing workers personally is too complicated, they say -- and too risky, as people might use their access to internal systems to perform acts of sabotage. (These layoff emails are often sent to employees' personal email; by the time they check it, they've been locked out of all their employer's platforms.)
As someone who's managed people in newsrooms and digital start-ups and has hired and fired people in various capacities for the past 21 years, I think this approach is not just cruel but unnecessary. It's reasonable to terminate access to company systems, but delivering the news with no personal human contact serves only one purpose: letting managers off the hook. It ensures they will not have to face the shock and devastation that people feel when they lose their livelihoods. It also ensures the managers won't have to weather any direct criticism about the poor leadership that brought everyone to that point.
Legally, companies have plenty of recourse if laid-off employees steal trade secrets or sabotage systems, and employees who need to find new jobs have little incentive to behave criminally, no matter how upset they may be. But even so, concerns about liability shouldn't preclude treating employees like human beings.
Some defenders of the practice argue that there's simply no way to coordinate these things at such large scales, but that, too, rings hollow. There is no rule that all layoffs have to happen simultaneously. If managers interact directly with their workers in everyday business, there's no reason to believe that would suddenly be impossible when it's time to lay them off.
The first time I had to fire someone, I was 25, and it was for cause. In theory, firing people because they're underperforming or insubordinate should be easier than when they're doing a good job and the company simply can't sustain its payroll, but this time it wasn't. I felt nauseated going into the meeting, and when the person I was firing began tearing up in the middle of the conversation, I had no idea what to do. I stammered and apologized, and by the end of the meeting, the person I was firing was comforting me.
Since then, I've hired and trained first-time managers and taught them how to do this in a way that respects the dignity of the people who are losing their jobs: Look people in the eye. Answer questions. If someone is upset, show some sympathy. Treat people the way we would wish to be treated. At the very least this demands an actual human conversation. It is more effort than sending a platitude-laden mass email, but it demonstrates respect.
In the case of good employees who are being let go through no fault of their own, those conversations benefit the employer, too, because people remember how they're treated in their lowest moments -- and word spreads fast. Future hiring prospects will be reading all about it on Twitter or Glassdoor. In a tight labor market, a company's cruelty can leave a lasting stain on its reputation.
Perhaps the most appalling aspect of termination by email is the asymmetry between what corporations expect of their workers and how they treat them in return. Employees in all kinds of jobs are routinely pressed to give the maximum that they can. In low-wage service jobs it can mean insane, unpredictable hours with no benefits. At higher-paying tech jobs it can mean sacrificing any semblance of a life outside the office, a requirement that is often justified by high-minded rhetoric about changing the world or the promise of some pot-of-gold reward in an unspecified future.
The expectation that an employee give at least a two-week notice and help with transition is rooted in a sense that workers owe their employers something more than just their labor: stability, continuity, maybe even gratitude for the compensation they've earned.
But when it's the company that chooses to end the relationship, there is often no such requirement. The same people whose labor helped build the company get suddenly recoded as potential criminals who might steal anything that's not nailed down.
At Twitter, where Elon Musk has embraced managerial incompetence as if it were an emerging art form that requires great creativity, employees were asked to sign a pledge to be "hard core," working even longer hours and sleeping in the office if necessary. Unsurprisingly, many instead decided to preserve their family lives and self-respect.
For them, this was just the first indignity. Many terminated employees found that their severance offers didn't materialize for months -- and some were called back to work when it turned out the site couldn't run without them. One employee who early on went to LinkedIn to write "Elon's my new boss and I'm stoked!" reportedly didn't make it through the first round of layoffs.
Approval of unions is already at 71 percent. Dehumanizing workers like this is accelerating the trend. Once unthinkable, unionization at large tech companies now seems all but inevitable.
Treating employees like disposable units who can simply be unsubscribed to ultimately endangers a company's own interests. It seems mistreated workers know their value, even if employers -- as they are increasingly prone to demonstrate -- do not.
Elizabeth Spiers, a contributing Opinion writer, is a journalist and digital media strategist. She was the editor in chief of The New York Observer and the founding editor of Gawker.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIP TOLEDANO/TRUNK ARCHIVE) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Employers; Layoffs; Employees; Employment; Social networks; Electronic mail systems; Digital media; Business communications; Human resource management; High tech industries; Professional relationships

Business indexing term: Subject: Employers Layoffs Employees Employment Social networks Digital media Business communications Human resource management High tech industries Professional relationships

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/29/opinion/mass-tech-layoffs-email-google.html

Title: Layoffs by Email Are Cruel and Unnecessary:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 31, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2770841651

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-email-are-cruel-unnecessary/docview/2770841651/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Networking Event That Led to Romance: [Society Desk]

Author: La Gorce, Tammy

Publication info: La Gorce, Tammy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/networking-event-that-led-romance/docview/2770379298/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Michael Landsberger was immediately drawn to Alyssa Petersel after meeting her at a small business function. Trouble was, he was there on a first date with a woman he had met online.
Michael Owen Landsberger's sister told him that he probably shouldn't ask out Alyssa Rachel Petersel given the way they met on May 16, 2019.
Mr. Landsberger, 37, was on a first date with a woman he met on Bumble. Ms. Petersel, 31, was the woman's client. Toward the end of the event in Manhattan that Mr. Landsberger's date had invited him to -- a party put on by Start Small Think Big, a nonprofit group that helps small businesses grow -- the women crossed paths. For Mr. Landsberger, who was living in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the moment was electric. "I was pretty drawn to Alyssa," he said. "I thought, Wait, how about I get to know this girl?"
Ms. Petersel is the founder and chief executive of MyWellbeing, a company formed in 2017 that matches people seeking mental health care with therapists. She had attended the Start Small Think Big party as a speaker -- hers was among the businesses that had been helped by the organization. Mr. Landsberger's date had helped start-ups, including Ms. Petersel's company, with pro bono marketing consulting as a volunteer.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
Mr. Landsberger worked in marketing, too. He was the chief executive of Flimper, a social media marketing tool; he is now head of growth and innovation at Pumpkin, a pet insurance company. At the party, Ms. Petersel, who lived in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, asked him whether Flimper might benefit MyWellbeing. He left with her business card.
Asking Ms. Petersel for a date once he departed with his date, who he liked but didn't feel much chemistry with, seemed like a fraught proposition. So he texted his sister, Morgan Edwards, for advice. "Do you think I can ask her out?" he asked. "Mmm, no," she responded. "To me it shows that you're not paying attention to the person you're with."
The next day, May 17, he messaged Ms. Petersel on LinkedIn anyway. "Hey Alyssa," he wrote. "Want to grab a coffee sometime and talk about your social media strategy?" That late-May strategy session, at a Joe & the Juice in SoHo, landed him a first date with Ms. Petersel a week later, at Habana Outpost, a Cuban restaurant. "He was very charming and funny," she said. By August, they were a couple.
Ms. Petersel grew up in Melville, N.Y., with her parents, Lois and Kenneth Petersel, and two older brothers. In 2013, she earned a bachelor's degree in psychology and international studies from Northwestern University. In 2017, she completed a master of social work degree at N.Y.U. Mr. Landsberger was born in New York but at age 7 moved with his brother, sister and parents, Richard and Robin Landsberger, to London, where the family still lives. He graduated from Tufts University with a bachelor's degree in English in 2007.
In October 2019, the couple briefly broke up. Mr. Landsberger's frequent invitations to join him on spur-of-the-moment hikes or for concerts had been causing Ms. Petersel time management stress. "As a founder, she had a whole other life to solve for," he said. "I didn't appreciate that."
But before Covid shut down the city, they reunited. Ms. Petersel moved into Mr. Landsberger's apartment in March 2020, when both started working remotely. At the end of that year, they had planned a two-month trip to Steamboat Springs, Colorado, but it ended up being seven months.
"Doing something unplanned and seeing where it takes you is not for everyone," Mr. Landsberger said. But it was for them: "It felt like a magical shift in nature, in space, in boundaries," Ms. Petersel said. They returned to Brooklyn in the summer of 2021 more devoted to each other than before.
On Oct. 22, 2021, Ms. Petersel's 30th birthday, Mr. Landsberger proposed during a visit to the Hamptons. The following spring, they moved into a new apartment together in Williamsburg. And on Jan. 14, at Greenpoint Loft, an events space in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, they were married in front of 180 guests. Guests had been asked to arrive vaccinated.
Their friend Mickey Campione, ordained by the Universal Life Church for the occasion, officiated a ceremony fusing traditional Jewish customs with a celebration of a passionate partnership, one that still makes room for Mr. Landsberger's business expertise. Ms. Petersel said she relies on Mr. Landsberger as MyWellbeing's behind-the-scenes chief operating officer, chief product officer and chief marketing officer.
But "more important," she added, "he's my No. 1 confidant, support system and inspiration."
Photograph Alyssa Petersel, Michael Landsberger (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOREVER PHOTOGRAPHY) This article appeared in print on page ST14.

Subject: Marketing; Personal profiles; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Social networks

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/27/style/alyssa-petersel-michael-landsberger-wedding.html

Title: A Networking Event That Led to Romance:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.14

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 29, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770379298

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/networking-event-that-led-romance/docview/2770379298/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Prosecutors Seek Tighter Bail Terms for FTX Founder: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Yaffe-Bellany, David; Weiser, Benjamin

Publication info: Yaffe-Bellany, David; Weiser, Benjamin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prosecutors-seek-tighter-bail-terms-ftx-founder/docview/2770214700/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The move followed the disgraced cryptocurrency executive's attempt to contact a potential witness in his criminal case, prosecutors said.
Federal prosecutors in Manhattan said on Friday that the disgraced cryptocurrency executive Sam Bankman-Fried had tried to contact a potential witness in his criminal case, and they asked a judge to impose new bail conditions limiting his ability to communicate with former colleagues.
In a court filing, the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of New York said Mr. Bankman-Fried sent messages over email and the encrypted messaging app Signal this month to the general counsel of the U.S. arm of FTX, the cryptocurrency exchange he founded. Mr. Bankman-Fried, 30, has been charged with fraud, money laundering and campaign finance violations linked to the implosion of FTX last year.
The communication was "suggestive of an effort to influence Witness-1's potential testimony," the filing said. "This is particularly concerning given that the defendant is aware that Witness-1 has information that would tend to inculpate the defendant."
Prosecutors asked Judge Lewis A. Kaplan, who is overseeing Mr. Bankman-Fried's case, to prohibit the entrepreneur from contacting current and former FTX employees or using Signal or other encrypted apps to communicate.
A spokesman for Mr. Bankman-Fried did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Bankman-Fried built FTX into one of the biggest cryptocurrency exchanges in the world before the company filed for bankruptcy in November. He was arrested in December at his home in the Bahamas, where FTX was based, and then extradited to the United States to face the criminal charges. Judge Kaplan granted him bail under highly restrictive conditions, confining him to his parents' home near the campus of Stanford University in Northern California.
Mr. Bankman-Fried has pleaded not guilty to the charges against him.
From his home confinement, Mr. Bankman-Fried has entertained visitors, including the author Michael Lewis, who is writing a book about him. He has also started mounting a defense, writing posts on Substack that detail his version of the events leading up to FTX's collapse.
According to Friday's filing, Mr. Bankman-Fried wrote to the general counsel of FTX U.S. on Jan. 15, saying he would "really love to reconnect and see if there's a way for us to have a constructive relationship, use each other as resources when possible, or at least vet things with each other."
Prosecutors said the witness "has firsthand knowledge of the defendant's conduct during the charged conspiracies" and participated in communications on Signal and the messaging system Slack with a small group of insiders the month that FTX collapsed. Mr. Bankman-Fried has also contacted other current and former FTX employees, according to the filing.
The document does not identify the witness by name. The general counsel of FTX U.S. is Ryne Miller, according to his LinkedIn page.
For much of his tenure at FTX, Mr. Bankman-Fried relied on Signal, which gives people the option to automatically delete messages. According to prosecutors, he also directed employees of FTX and Alameda Research, a hedge fund he founded, to set their communications to automatically disappear after 30 days or less.
"The autodeletion of FTX and Alameda's Slack and Signal communications has impeded the government's investigation," the filing said. "Potential witnesses have described relevant and incriminating conversations with the defendant that took place on Slack and Signal that have already been autodeleted."
In the court filing, prosecutors said Mr. Bankman-Fried's use of Signal could obstruct their efforts to determine whether he tried to contact more potential witnesses during his confinement.
"The proposed bail conditions in combination would more effectively prevent the defendant from obstructing justice," the filing said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Digital currencies; Employees; Public prosecutors

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Employees

Location: United States--US

People: Bankman-Fried, Sam

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/27/technology/sam-bankman-fried-ftx-bail.html

Title: Prosecutors Seek Tighter Bail Terms for FTX Founder:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 28, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770214700

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prosecutors-seek-tighter-bail-terms-ftx-founder/docview/2770214700/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Amid Dusty Trays, Offices Rethink the Cafeteria: [National Desk]

Author: Severson, Kim

Publication info: Severson, Kim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/amid-dusty-trays-offices-rethink-cafeteria/docview/2768614817/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The corporate cafeteria can be an especially lonely place these days.
"You used to walk in at 12 o'clock on a Tuesday and stand in line to get something," said Casey Allen, 46, who works for a division of the agricultural chemical company BASF in Raleigh, N.C. "Now, you walk in and you're usually first in line."
A paternalistic fixture of white-collar life born of the Industrial Revolution, the office dining room survived the midcentury move to sprawling suburban office parks. It weathered the rise and fall of cubicle culture and power lunches, and more recently, the lavish excess of the Silicon Valley office lunch.
But as the American office emerges from its pandemic slumber, can the cafeteria survive layoffs, a workweek that sometimes requires only a few days in the mother ship and a new, more demanding generation of employees?
Even at companies like Meta, which this month announced that it would lay off 126 cafeteria employees at its headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., workers are skipping free meals in a quest to leave the office as soon as possible.
"The world of the traditional big cafeteria is dead," said Fedele Bauccio, who in 1987 co-founded Bon Appétit Management Company, which runs food service at hundreds of museums, universities and companies like LinkedIn. "They are just too expensive to maintain, and not flexible enough."
Still, office workers need to eat. So companies are blowing up the cafeteria. Long regarded as a way to encourage productivity, cafeterias are being reframed as respite and recreation, designed to attract younger workers in a job market badly in need of them.
Some companies are installing cocktail bars, or hosting sunset oyster-shucking parties to help employees relax and socialize after work. The large dining halls at tech giants are being divided into smaller, more homey spaces flexible enough to feed a work force whose size changes drastically day to day. Developers are building restaurants that function like subsidized corporate cafeterias but are open to the public.
"Free pizza isn't enough anymore," said Andrew Montesano, the North America food programming and operations manager at LinkedIn.
Employees, especially younger ones, are demanding more culturally authentic meals and climate-friendly kitchen protocols, like reducing waste, according to Mr. Bauccio and others in the corporate food service business. They are eating less meat and questioning labor practices. Health and wellness have become a menu mantra.
Companies that aren't paying attention are likely to suffer, said Jennifer A. Chatman, associate dean for academic affairs at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley.
Smart leaders know that informal interaction can keep corporate culture from eroding as remote work persists, and may be the main purpose for coming to the office in the future, she said.
"A cafeteria is not the only way to get there," Dr. Chatman said, "but people need to eat, and we know eating together fosters interaction."
Food has become such an important recruitment and retention tool that some applicants for remote jobs are even offered credits with food delivery companies, or generous weekly lunch stipends -- benefits that may be especially prized as inflation drives up food costs.
Free meals can also offer psychological rewards, Dr. Chatman said. "There's an advantage to being able to say, 'My company buys me lunch every day.' There is a symbolic value in feeling like you are being taken care of by the company."
On the shores of South San Francisco, an airy two-story restaurant called the Anecdote opened in March on a biotech campus. It functions like a corporate cafe, but has the look and feel of a restaurant.
Bon Appétit Management Company pioneered the idea with real estate developers. Companies in the building can use the restaurant as a way to offer employee meals, sometimes free or at a discount. But anyone can stop in for dishes like crispy tofu sliders and $ 16 Dungeness crab cakes.
Company downsizing and hybrid work hours prompted the idea, but cities -- particularly on the West Coast -- that are pushing companies to stop providing abundant free food helped it along, said Alison Harper, a Bon Appétit district manager. Huge corporate cafeterias, the reasoning goes, keep workers from patronizing local food businesses, and offer nothing for the neighborhood.
"The pandemic speeded up what I consider a paradigm shift that was already happening in the Bay Area and beyond," she said. "Cities were saying we don't want big, closed cafeterias that don't benefit the community anymore."
Hans-Peter Goertz, 48, eats at the Anecdote during the three days each week he goes to the Cytokinetics office. He misses the variety and speed of food service at his former employer, Genentech, where a dosa or an order of fresh, local fish was delivered fast and free. A meal at the Anecdote, he said, is more akin to a longer, European-style lunch.
"I can get a really nice meal for $ 4 or $ 5 in a beautiful setting with an innovative menu," Mr. Goertz said. "It's a very nice perk that translates beyond the economics."
There may be no better example of the changing fortunes of corporate dining than the former Condé Nast cafeteria in Midtown Manhattan, once an exclusive palace of power where the editor Anna Wintour ordered blood-rare burgers, and one might spot Cameron Diaz at the salad bar or John Updike having lunch with a New Yorker editor. The cafeteria line became so legendary that it had a role in the film "The Devil Wears Prada." ("You do know that cellulite is one of the main ingredients in corn chowder," Stanley Tucci tells a young new hire ladling some into a bowl.)
The Durst Organization opened the revamped cafeteria at 151 West 42nd Street in 2018, after Condé Nast moved out. Part of its $ 150 million renovation was spent giving the cafeteria, originally designed by the famed architect Frank Gehry, a face lift. Anyone whose company rents space in the building is welcome.
Durst put beehives on the roof of a neighboring building and uses its honey in the cafeteria. It began offering master classes in cooking lobster and fresh pasta. Food scraps are shipped to the company's 1,800-acre McEnroe Organic Farm near Millerton, N.Y., and the compost is used to grow vegetables for the cafeteria line.
Quality food, served in refined gathering spots, has been such a winning formula that Durst is replicating it in its building at 825 Third Avenue, which is also undergoing a $ 150 million renovation. By this summer, employees at companies like Gotham Asset Management and National Bank of Egypt will be able enjoy a cafeteria lunch, and after work head to a 6,000-square-foot terrace for happy hour or an oyster-shucking party.
At One World Trade Center, which Durst co-owns with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, a large, casual communal space on one floor offers a quick-service cafe with high-end coffee and beverages. The building is home to young, midsize tech companies like Wunderkind and Undertone, which have pumped up their own pantries, sometimes making them the centerpiece of the office.
"What we're seeing is a merger of the renaissance in food and corporate dining," said Spencer Cohn, who manages food and beverage for Durst. "The shift is not temporary."
David Neil, a Durst principal, said a number of companies have made their leasing decisions based on a building's food and beverage offerings.
In less flashy corners of corporate America, companies are struggling to find efficient ways to manage unpredictable lunch crowds and reduce labor costs while still offering dining options. Streamlined menus with QR codes are posted on office walls, and orders are made on apps or at kiosks.
Some businesses have abandoned cafeterias altogether in favor of subsidizing food delivery. An app called Relish by ezCater aggregates a variety of restaurant orders from employees and delivers them all at the same time, in uniform packaging, so everyone can eat together. It uses a network of more than 104,000 restaurants in every state, selected based on their ability to reliably feed large groups.
Stefania Mallett, the chief executive of ezCater, said that companies she never thought would subsidize food for employees have signed up because it's cheaper than running a cafeteria and satisfies younger workers, for whom food is becoming a requirement rather than a perk.
The New York ticket company SeatGeek uses the service regularly, she said. On days it offers subsidized lunch through the Relish app, five times as many employees come to the office.
"It's much cheaper to give you a sandwich than replace a worker," she said.
Still, there are some parts of the country where the old-school corporate dining room endures. The cafeteria at Hallmark headquarters in Kansas City, Mo., is one of them.
J.C. Hall, who founded the greeting-card company, created one of the country's first corporate cafeterias in 1923 because there was nowhere nearby to eat besides an expensive restaurant. (He is also credited with starting the coffee break.)
In 1956, Mr. Hall opened the Crown Room, with an army of cooks, a terrific view and 36 chandeliers shaped like the company logo. "Greeting cards represent thoughtfulness, and it's fitting that those who create them should be working in the best conditions we could provide," he said at the time.
The Crown Room was always the heart of the company, with cakes for employee birthdays, World Series parties and gift-wrapping demonstrations. People heading home for the day could pick up a potpie or some meatloaf for the family on their way out the door.
During the height of the pandemic, when headquarters was closed, the kitchen still turned out packaged sandwiches and salads to feed people in the manufacturing plants. The dining room reopened in April. "Hallmarkers were thrilled to have the Crown Room back open," said Paul Herdtner, a company spokesman who is particularly fond of the cafeteria's Texas sheet cake.
It's a piece of Hallmark corporate culture no one wants to change, but reality is reality. These days, the cafeteria line is open only three days a week.
Follow New York Times Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube , TikTok and Pinterest . Get regular updates from New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Photograph Hallmark's Crown Room opened in 1956 in Kansas City, Mo., and set a standard for big cafeterias. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HALLMARK) (A1); Companies are rethinking and repurposing the space dedicated to the cafeteria. Clockwise from top: Playing games inside The Green at One Five One in New York; beehives on the roof of One Bryant Park; cocktails at The Green; and unpacking orders at SeatGeek. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICO SCHINCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The Anecdote, on a biotech campus in South San Francisco, operates like a restaurant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN FONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12.

Subject: Meals; Restaurants; Employees; Food service; Corporate culture; Offices; Trends; Office buildings; White collar workers

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Employees Corporate culture White collar workers

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Bon Appetit Manageme nt Co; NAICS: 722310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/23/dining/corporate-cafeterias.html

Title: Amid Dusty Trays, Offices Rethink the Cafeteria:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 24, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2768614817

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/amid-dusty-trays-offices-rethink-cafeteria/docview/2768614817/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

She Fooled JPMorgan, According to JPMorgan Itself: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lieber, Ron

Publication info: Lieber, Ron. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/she-fooled-jpmorgan-according-itself/docview/2767531029/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When JPMorgan Chase paid $ 175 million to acquire a college financial planning company called Frank in September 2021, it heralded the "unique opportunity for deeper engagement" with the five million students Frank worked with at more than 6,000 American institutions of higher education.
Then last month, the biggest bank in the country did something extraordinary: It said it had been conned.
In a lawsuit, JPMorgan claimed that Frank's young founder, Charlie Javice, had engaged in an elaborate scheme to stuff that list of five million customers with fakery.
"To cash in, Javice decided to lie," the suit said. "Including lying about Frank's success, Frank's size and the depth of Frank's market penetration." Ms. Javice, through her lawyer, has said the bank's claims are untrue.
JPMorgan's legal filing reads like pulp nonfiction, with jaw-dropping accusations. Among them: that Ms. Javice and Olivier Amar, Frank's chief growth and acquisition officer, faked their customer list and hired a data science professor to help pull the wool over the eyes of the bank's due-diligence team.
What JPMorgan mostly left out, however, is the story of how Ms. Javice found herself in a nine-figure negotiation with the bank in the first place.
When Frank was born, in 2016, Ms. Javice was 24 years old, displayed great media savvy and claimed to have real-world experience with financial aid and the struggle to pay for college. "It's grueling, it's emotional," she told The Daily Pennsylvanian, a student newspaper at the University of Pennsylvania, adding that her mother would frequently cry while talking to financial aid officers.
Ms. Javice's personal story -- and pledge to cut through the painful thicket of government forms, jargon and regulations surrounding the aid process -- must have made compelling reading for angel investors and venture capitalists. Especially those who have little firsthand knowledge of how financial aid actually works.
By promising to help users file financial aid forms more quickly and easily -- and deliver billions in savings to teenagers who needed help -- her business plan had the halo of doing well while doing good. It eventually added a dot-org web address for good measure.
"I thought it would be an advocacy organization," said Carly Gillis, who was Frank's director of content and community for several months in 2018. "A real David and Goliath story."
At least some of its good deeds, however, may never have been done or were at least highly exaggerated. When many people were still home during the pandemic, Frank started offering "amazing prices" for online classes that earned "real college credits." This past week, however, schools that appeared on Frank's website with hundreds of supposedly available courses expressed confusion in interviews about their presence on the site during that period. At one school, nobody had ever even heard of the company.
Ms. Javice's story is an archetypal tale of late-stage start-up hustle culture -- a teenage prodigy turned Ivy League social enterprise maven and shape-shifting savior of higher education.
Or so she would have the world believe.
100 most creative people
Ms. Javice's career helping others began, in her telling, on the border of Thailand and Myanmar. She spent time volunteering there one summer, between terms at her private high school in Westchester County, N.Y.
The work helped inspire her to create PoverUp, an organization that promoted microfinance and helped other students learn about reducing poverty through business. About 50 schools were joining her network every month or month and a half, she said on a podcast in 2011.
Ms. Javice has said she needed help herself while she was an undergraduate at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, where she quickly drew notice by appearing on Fast Company's 2011 list of the 100 most creative people in business.
There, she was on financial aid, and she found the forms confusing. So did her parents, according to an interview she gave to Diversity Woman magazine -- including her father, Didier, who has worked on Wall Street for more than 35 years, with 11 years at Goldman Sachs and three at Merrill Lynch, according to his LinkedIn profile. Ms. Javice, her father and her mother, Natalie Rosin, did not respond to questions about how Ms. Javice had qualified for financial aid and the struggles to obtain it.
"The whole thing never made sense to me or my parents, who both have master's degrees," Ms. Javice told the publication. And according to an article in The Daily Pennsylvanian, the family's appeals for more aid would take the entire semester to settle, repeatedly. (A Penn spokesman, Ron Ozio, said it would be "highly unusual" for appeals to take an entire semester and that they normally take four to six weeks.)
Ms. Javice has said she graduated from Wharton in three years while often taking five classes at once. The school would only confirm that she had a Bachelor of Science in economics with a major in finance and a second major in operations and information management. It does not comment on the financial aid status, if any, of students.
According to state legal filings, Ms. Javice incorporated her first company, TAPD, in 2013. There is no mention of it on her LinkedIn page, but she has spoken about this pre-Frank start-up some in the past.
In a now-deleted interview on Medium from 2020, she spoke of the attempt at TAPD to come up with a better way to judge the creditworthiness of people just getting started in life.
Credit scoring involves complex state and federal regulations, and after 18 months, Ms. Javice realized that building a new system and complying with the rules would be too expensive. "I fired all my employees," she said in the Medium interview. "It was the worst thing I've ever had to do. A lot of my employees were close friends and still won't talk with me to this day."
From all of this struggle, another start-up was born. In 2016, a message appeared on frankfafsa.com promising "Maximum financial aid, guaranteed," and adding: "If we don't save you at least $ 1,000 of tuition, we'll refund you. Go Premium for $ 10/month. Cancel anytime." At the bottom was an invitation to join a wait list.
Behind the scenes, the U.S. Department of Education had quickly taken notice. It was not pleased. FAFSA, which stands for Free Application for Federal Student Aid, is a registered trademark, and the department didn't take kindly to Frank's use of it.
In a 2018 settlement agreement, which a financial aid expert, Mark Kantrowitz, unearthed via a Freedom of Information Act request, Frank agreed to hand its frankfafsa.com web address over to the department.
Under the agreement, Frank was to also remove the trademarked term from "the titles, handles and user names of each and every one of its social media accounts." It also could not use the term "Frank's FAFSA" anymore, since FAFSA did not and never had belonged to Frank.
A Frank co-founder wasn't happy, either. Adi Omesy, who served as chief technical officer, sued Ms. Javice in Israel over compensation. He eventually received a settlement, according to the Israeli newspaper TheMarker.
All along, Ms. Javice was making frequent media appearances. In December 2017, she wrote an opinion piece for The New York Times with the headline "The 8 Most Confusing Things About FAFSA." The piece contained so many errors that it required an eight-sentence correction.
Nevertheless, over the next two years, publications continued to shower praise on her. A Business Insider article from October 2018 that appeared on Yahoo!Finance had a headline proclaiming, "A 26-year-old founder has a solution to what Bill Gates calls an 'unnecessary roadblock' to college -- and her startup is helping students get thousands off their tuition."
'30 Under 30'
List accolades turned up in bunches. Ms. Javice appeared on the 2019 Forbes 30 Under 30 finance list. Then she made the Crain's New York Business 40 Under 40 list. "Javice has done her homework," the Crain's article said.
Not everyone agreed. The next year, Wesley Whistle, who worked at the New America think tank at the time, wrote a blog post calling out Frank and Ms. Javice for promising help with pandemic relief for students, even though Frank wasn't working with schools directly and the company's tool might not have been of any use to many students.
Not long after that, the Federal Trade Commission sent a warning letter to Frank noting that its "purported assistance to students consists primarily of providing a form letter that may lack the information a student would need to apply for one of the grants from his or her school."
The agency also wasn't fond of Frank's offer at the time to give students cash advances on their financial aid, "with no interest, no fees -- ever." The company's terms "appear to require the advance to be paid back within 61 days, whether or not the student has received any aid from his or her college or university by that time," the agency said. "Additionally, Frank charges a $ 19.90 monthly fee."
Frank tried other ways of making money. It offered to help people appeal their financial aid offers "for a $ 144.95 one-time commitment."
The company also made a big push to add online courses to its offerings. That was a key element of a November 2019 investor presentation, stamped "Draft & Confidential," a copy of which was reviewed by The Times. "Students spend $ 400 billion on tuition, and ethically serving this market gives us access to extraordinary opportunity," the presentation said.
Frank's website mentioned classes, like "Fundamentals of Business Law" and "Superheroes: An American Fantasy," that cost $ 500 to $ 700 or so. Customers would pay the company to enroll, and accredited universities would teach the classes.
In a prominent spot on its "Classfinder" page in early 2021, Frank said 448 courses were available from Keiser University, a 46-year-old school with campuses in Florida, that provides many career-focused programs.
This was news to Keiser.
"Keiser University was unaware that our courses were listed on the now-defunct Frank website," a school spokesman, Jeff LaLiberte, said. "Keiser University has no relationship with Frank and has never contracted with the company for services. We have never been engaged in tuition sharing with Frank nor has the university received revenue from the organization."
Administrators at Lee University, a Christian school in Cleveland, Tenn., were also unaware of the 317 classes that Frank had listed on its website. Lee currently has only 248 total online courses, and a spokesman, Brian Conn, said none of his colleagues had heard of the company.
"We have had no relationship with Frank, so it is unclear why Lee has been included in their listing," he said. "If they were claiming some kind of cooperative prearranged program with Lee University, in which someone could sign up for our courses on their site and Frank would handle the process of matriculation and payment, then that is untrue."
According to the investor presentation, the pipeline of schools wanting to do business with Frank was "exploding." There were no school names in the slide deck; a small footnote in a hard-to-read color said the company was precluded from providing "partner" names. References, however, were available upon request.
Competitors and financial aid experts were watching all of this, all along, with increasingly arched eyebrows. But they were shocked when JPMorgan announced in September 2021 that it was acquiring Frank.
"Today is my first day employed by someone else, ever," Ms. Javice told CNBC after the announcement. "I mean it still feels very much like, pinch me, did this really happen?"
Observers didn't believe it had really happened. Mark Salisbury, a co-founder of TuitionFit, a service that helps families research the true price of college using real financial aid awards from other students, did some math on his late competitor.
Mr. Salisbury, a former director of institutional research and assessment at Augustana College, estimates that two million students start college each year for the first time. Having done the FAFSA once, he figured, most families wouldn't seek help from a company like Frank the second time they needed to and beyond. So if Frank had served five million people in just half a decade, it would have captured a sizable share of new college students who needed financial aid.
Reaching all of those people within the year that they might seek help, however, isn't easy. "To break through all of the noise on the internet, that is incredibly difficult to do, and it costs an insane amount of money to pull it off," Mr. Salisbury said.
Could Frank have actually spent the money or cracked the code? "It just always smelled," Mr. Salisbury said.
Mr. Kantrowitz, who had filed the Freedom of Information Act request a few years earlier, was surprised, too. He used a web traffic measurement firm to run some searches and found that Frank had just 67,000 unique website visitors per month around the time of the acquisition. Even if you multiply that by the total months of the company's existence, it doesn't get you to five million.
As for the claim of helping students at more than 6,000 schools, it's another mystery. The federal National Center for Education Statistics lists just 5,916 postsecondary institutions that can utilize federal financial aid. Perhaps the company rounded the number up -- and did business with students from every single one of the schools.
The promise of five million customers, 6,000 schools
So what could JPMorgan have seen in the company?
Clearly, it liked Ms. Javice. In fact, the bank planned to pay her a $ 20 million retention fee if she stuck around for a stretch of time after the merger closed.
If JPMorgan wanted a pipeline of soon-to-be-educated young adults, it was paying $ 35 per name -- $ 175 million divided by those five million customers. To pay that much, it had to have a lot of confidence that its marketing team would be able to persuade Frank customers to do business with the bank and stick with it for decades.
Soon after the merger closed, the bank took its shot and sprayed a portion of Frank's customer list with solicitations. Of 400,000 outbound emails, only 28 percent arrived successfully in an inbox, compared with the usual 99 percent delivery rate. Moreover, just 103 recipients clicked a link to Frank's website. It was, as the bank put it in its legal filing, "disastrous."
An investigation ensued, and the bank dived into Ms. Javice's Frank email account. There, it found a litigation mother lode. The messages, according to the bank, included copious evidence that she had hired a data science professor to create fake information to prove to the bank that the millions of customers Frank claimed to have were real.
Highlights from the emails also included a Frank engineer's questioning of Ms. Javice's data manipulation request. She responded that she didn't think anyone would end up in an "orange jumpsuit" over it, according to JPMorgan's complaint against Ms. Javice and Mr. Amar.
Nicholas Biase, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, declined to comment on whether it had opened an investigation into JPMorgan's claims.
Ms. Javice has retained Alex Spiro, co-chair of the investigations, government enforcement and white-collar defense practice at the law firm Quinn Emanuel, to represent her. He is currently defending Elon Musk in an investor lawsuit about his comments on Twitter. She has filed her own suit seeking legal expenses, arguing that JPMorgan conducted an internal investigation for which it is contractually obliged to cover her costs.
"After JPMC rushed to acquire Charlie's rocket-ship business, JPMC realized they couldn't work around existing student privacy laws, committed misconduct and then tried to retrade the deal," Mr. Spiro said in a statement to The Times. "Charlie blew the whistle and then sued. JPMC's newest suit is nothing but a cover."
That statement did not deny that Ms. Javice had falsified data and then lied about it, so Mr. Spiro sent another one.
"We deny the allegations. JPMC knows what they filed is retaliatory and misleading. They were provided all the data upfront for the purchase of Frank, and Charlie Javice highlighted the restrictions placed by student privacy laws during due diligence," he said. "When JPMC couldn't work around those privacy laws after the purchase of Frank, JPMC began twisting the facts to cover their tracks and are falsely accusing Charlie Javice to retrade the deal."
Federal law places restrictions on what colleges and other parties can do with student data. But it is not clear whether a for-profit entity seeking to help with financial aid forms must classify any data that it gets from students in a way that falls under those restrictions.
In any event, JPMorgan is not buying Ms. Javice's privacy argument. The bank's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, called the Frank acquisition a "huge mistake" on a Jan. 13 quarterly earnings call. That week, it also shut down Frank's website and erased the press release announcing the deal from its own website.
"There are always lessons -- we always will make mistakes," Mr. Dimon said on CNBC on Thursday. "I tell our people, we make mistakes, it's OK, and when we know what all the lessons are, I'll tell you what they were."
There is one thing the bank thinks it knows already, though. "Ms. Javice was not and is not a whistle-blower," a JPMorgan spokesman, Pablo Rodriguez, said. "Any dispute will be resolved through the legal process."
But did the bank's due diligence team include anyone who had been on financial aid, to see if the whole thing passed the sniff test? Had anyone ever filled out a FAFSA for his or her family? The bank would not comment on this or other aspects of the due diligence, other than to point to the efforts it described in its complaint.
Any settlement between the parties would most likely remain private. And now that Frank is no more, other companies that do similar work say they still hope to reduce some of the financial pain that college students endure.
But in the trailing plume of a rocket ship like Frank's, it hasn't been easy. "When any other person had an idea for trying to solve this problem and went to a venture capitalist, that venture capitalist would say: 'You're not having that much success. Look at what Frank has done,"' said Mr. Salisbury of TuitionFit.
Making a business out of helping needy college shoppers is not, in fact, easy, as Sabrina Manville, co-founder of Edmit, wrote in an online essay last year. "The people with the money are not families," she said in an interview.
None of Frank's investors or the people Ms. Javice has named as mentors returned messages or would comment on her behalf, and she did not offer up names of people to call. But one of them did offer a comment through a spokesman.
In a 2018 interview in PopSugar, Ms. Javice described Bobby Turner, the founder of an investment firm, as "one of the most impactful people in my life so far." When she was having a hard time, she told the publication, Mr. Turner, who was an investor in Frank, would make her promise to do three things every day.
"And he's literally like, 'Well, you need to meditate, go to the gym and have sex,"' she said in the interview.
Randy James, a spokesman for Mr. Turner, said he had been a major benefactor of Wharton's social impact programs and served as a mentor to many students and alumni, including Ms. Javice. "Bobby shared his views on a number of topics related to business and work-life balance, though he did not make the comments she attributed to him in a 2018 interview," Mr. James said.
"The allegations against Ms. Javice regarding Frank are troubling," he added, "and, if true, would represent a serious breach of trust and violation of the law."
Matthew Goldstein and Hiba Yazbek contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.
Matthew Goldstein and Hiba Yazbek contributed reporting. Susan C. Beachy and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU5.

ERIC Subject: Paying for College; Departments; Student Financial Aid; College Credits; Information Management; Higher Education; Newspapers

Subject: Higher education; Schools; Angel investors; Startups; Personal profiles; Student financial aid; Pandemics; Litigation

Business indexing term: Subject: Angel investors Startups

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: University of Pennsylvania; NAICS: 611310; Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/21/business/jpmorgan-chase-charlie-javice-fraud.html

Title: She Fooled JPMorgan, According to JPMorgan Itself:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767531029

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/she-foo led-jpmorgan-according-itself/docview/2767531029/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Era of Happy Tech Workers Is Over: [Op-Ed]

Author: Rawlinson, Nadia

Publication info: Rawlinson, Nadia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/era-happy-tech-workers-is-over/docview/2767530936/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Silicon Valley as we know it -- with its radically transparent company cultures, empowered employees, flat hierarchies and rarefied perks like nap pods and free food -- is quickly disappearing. And it's unlikely to return.
For nearly two decades, tech companies heralded an approach that centered on making workers happy with benefits that were intended to seamlessly integrate work and life. They made well-being programs and unlimited vacation, initiatives that prioritized the whole person, standard employee benefits. This, along with high salaries and equity packages, was a way not just to win but also to dominate the war for talent. The rapid growth and success of Silicon Valley companies, driven in part by their unique people practices, reimagined workplace culture for a generation.
Times, as they say, are a-changin'. The industry is facing an uneven macroeconomic environment and a roiling stock market that is putting pressure on public tech companies and making for a less-than-ideal I.P.O. environment for private ones. Tech chief executives are now optimizing more for profitability than for growth at all costs, sometimes at the expense of long-held organizational beliefs.
The shift is most evident in the recent surge of tech layoffs. There has been lots of public discussion about the disruptive axing of half of Twitter's 7,500 employees, a move conducted under its new owner, Elon Musk. Haphazard and rolling, the layoffs were painful to watch. The employees who remained have had to endure greater workloads on significantly smaller teams. But while outsiders may have viewed these layoffs as impulsive, they seemed to have primed the environment for other tech companies to follow. In 2022, the tech industry laid off over 150,000 people. In the first few weeks of 2023, Microsoft announced 10,000 job cuts and Alphabet followed with 12,000.
According to multiple media outlets, Meta and Amazon use stack ranking for their employees, a controversial approach in evaluating talent. Popularized by G.E. in the 1980s (though the company later abandoned it), the process has managers rate their employees on a forced curve. Generally, only 20 percent are deemed top talent, and 10 to 15 percent must be designated as low performers. Although there are benefits, even in the best of times, the practice can create a competitive work environment that de-emphasizes employee improvement. With impending layoffs, people with the lowest ranking are typically the first to go.
The layoffs are part of a new age of bossism, the notion that management has given up too much control and must wrest it back from employees. After two decades of fighting for talent, chief executives are using this period to adjust for years of management indulgence that left them with a generation of entitled workers.
In 2012, to spur innovation and drive engagement, LinkedIn began the incubator program. A perk that encouraged employees to come up with approved ideas that they could work on full time for up to three months was generous even by Silicon Valley standards. Then there were the many lavish events that served to put a company's culture on display. It was par for the course for employees to attend elaborately themed holiday parties featuring the next new Instagrammable experience. If you happened to work at Uber in 2015 and attended its corporate event in Las Vegas, you were treated to a private performance from Beyoncé.
Executives across industries are leaning into their newfound bossism and ending pandemic-era work arrangements and incentives. Reed Hastings, Netflix's co-founder and co-C.E.O., said near the start of the pandemic that he didn't "see any positives" in working from home, and the company apparently allows only some remote work. TikTok reportedly told employees that it was sunsetting gym membership and Wi-Fi reimbursements as well as its $ 45 daily meal stipends to workers not tied to the company's main hubs, in its own efforts at restraint. These changes are bellwethers.
Not all tech employees see these shifts as signals. I recently spoke with a product marketing manager from Meta who was laid off. I assumed that she would be apprehensive about her job prospects; instead, armed with three months' severance and decent savings, she remains optimistic. With nearly 79 percent of software engineers and nearly 76 percent of marketers who were laid off in tech finding jobs within three months, her optimism isn't necessarily unfounded.
However, a few things are true now that make the shift in tech employee culture not just a moment in time but also a redefinition of how tech companies will be run.
Meta and Salesforce combined lost more than $ 700 billion in market cap last year. Both companies are now dealing with activist investors who have taken prominent positions in their stocks. The activists have called for the companies to slash costs, reduce nonstrategic investments and, notably in Meta's case, aggressively reduce its work force. Managers have less capacity to overhire and invest in employee initiatives that aren't tied directly to business execution.
For tech start-ups and founder-C.E.O.s, the past 10 years were a bull run. Interest rates were low, venture funding seemed limitless and valuations skyrocketed. With money being essentially free, founder-C.E.O.s dived in -- pursuing revenue, increasing their customer bases and investing in myriad people and projects.
However, with recent interest rates the highest they have been since late 2007 and continuing market uncertainty, investors are considering more investments in companies with strong fundamentals and cash flows. For founder-C.E.O.s, this means it will be harder to raise funding, and investors will have an even greater expectation of return on their money. For large tech companies and start-ups alike, cash is no longer free, and employee investments must pay off.
We are entering an era of external investor pressure, higher financing hurdles and overall market volatility. This environment calls for management to make structural changes in the way workplace culture is experienced for both labor and capital.
The current tech work force is used to every voice getting a vote, and it will now have to yield to a new world -- one with heightened expectations and disciplined investment. Not considering the winds of change will put the careers of many empowered workers at risk.
Nadia Rawlinson is a former chief people officer at Slack.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page SR9.

Subject: Investments; Interest rates; Cost control; Startups; Layoffs; Employees; Pandemics; Shareholder activism; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Interest rates Cost control Startups Layoffs Employees Shareholder activism Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/19/opinion/tech-layoffs-meta-amazon-silicon-valley.html

Title: The Era of Happy Tech Workers Is Over:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

column: St Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2767530936

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/era-happy-tech-workers-is-over/docview/2767530936/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Heartbreaking and Beautiful' Message After a Crash: [Society Desk]

Author: Mandell, Judy

Publication info: Mandell, Judy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/heartbreaking-beautiful-message-after-crash/docview/2767530932/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Travis Johnson and Rachael Bozsik were set up by a professional matchmaker that neither had actually hired. Eventually, the match took.
When Amber Artis, a professional matchmaker, approached Travis Ogden Johnson, he was skeptical. The two had become acquainted through the networking site LinkedIn, and she was looking to set him up with her friend and business associate, Rachael Leigh Bozsik. Ms. Artis insisted that Ms. Bozsik was "the one."
Both Mr. Johnson and Ms. Bozsik agreed to a phone call arranged by Ms. Artis on Oct. 20, 2020, and after 45 minutes of pleasant conversation, they decided to meet in person.
So, about a month later, Mr. Johnson, who lived in Chicago and has worked as an interim chief executive for a number of private businesses, flew to Charleston, S.C., where Ms. Bozsik lived. They met in the lobby of the Hotel Bennett.
"I had been smitten from our phone conversation and I knew that if she was half as pretty as her photos, I would be in trouble," said Mr. Johnson, 43, who graduated from the University of Colorado with a bachelor's degree in communications and another in business. "When she walked toward me and lowered her mask to give me a huge smile, I was done."
Their date went well. It featured a helicopter sunset tour of Charleston followed by dinner at Burwell's Stone Fire Grill and cocktails at the Dewberry Charleston hotel.
Ms. Bozsik, 30, graduated from High Point University with a bachelor's degree in entrepreneurship and another in interior design and runs a luxury branding firm that supports female entrepreneurs. Ms. Artis is a client. She found Mr. Johnson to be handsome and "a total gentleman."
"We shared a lot of core values and goals in life," Ms. Bozsik said. "But I didn't think it would be a great match because he talked so much about himself -- come to find out later, he was just trying to let me know through stories that he was a good guy."
As they were about to part, she said to him, "I think we best just be friends."
Mr. Johnson was disappointed but decided not to push the matter, saying only, "It was great meeting you. If you are ever in Chicago, let me know and I will show you around."
A month later, when Ms. Bozsik tried to fix him up with one of her friends who was living in Chicago, Mr. Johnson suggested they try again. "I'm really looking for someone more like you," he said.
Ms. Bozsik was wary but agreed, and on Jan. 1, 2021, Mr. Johnson flew her to Chicago. "I was going to have to do some serious courting," he said.
The two explored Chicago together and she met some of his friends. And from that second date on, they never looked back.
They started splitting time between the two cities; they kept their own places, even as the relationship grew more serious.
[Click here to binge read this week's featured couples.]
On Oct. 23, 2021, Ms. Bozsik's 29th birthday, Mr. Johnson proposed. He rented a private room at the Chicago Firehouse Restaurant. "I pretended to drop a napkin and picked up the ring that I hid under the table," he said. "I asked her to marry me. She said ,'Is this really happening right now? Yes."'
All was going well for the couple as they planned their wedding -- until May 8, 2021, when Mr. Johnson was struck by a car while riding his motorcycle a block away from his condominium on Michigan Avenue. He broke both arms, wrists, a leg and an ankle; he also shattered a hand and an elbow.
Ms. Bozsik was in Charleston at the time at a client meeting, and rushed to Chicago upon hearing the news of his accident.
Mr. Johnson went through two rounds -- 19 hours -- of trauma surgery. Just before the first surgery, Mr. Johnson asked a nurse to use his phone to send a text message on his behalf to his best friend, Sasha Wiesen, asking him to look out for Ms. Bozsik if he did not make it. He wanted her to know that he loved her deeply and wanted her to be happy -- and to find love again.
"That was heartbreaking and beautiful at the same exact time," Ms. Bozsik said.
The doctors predicted that he would be in a wheelchair for six to eight months. As his recovery progressed, Ms. Bozsik cared for him. He continues to receive regular physical therapy.
"These were the best and the worst months of our lives," Ms. Bozsik said. "We truly understood what our relationship was made of and we combated the trauma together. We were learning together with a lot of love."
After moving their wedding date several times to be sure that Mr. Johnson would be able to stand, walk and dance, the date was set for Jan. 7, 2023 in Lenox, Mass. Charles Bozsik, Ms. Bozsik's paternal grandfather, who was ordained for their wedding via a certificate by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, officiated before 30 guests.
Before Mr. Johnson's father, Terry, died on April 20, 2020, he spoke of legally changing the family surname back to what it was when their relatives immigrated from Sweden: Johanson. To honor his memory, the couple both legally changed their names to Johanson when signing their marriage certificate.
Photograph Rachael Bozsik, Travis Johnson (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNY FUA) This article appeared in print on page ST13.

Subject: Weddings; Trauma

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/style/travis-johnson-rachael-bozsik-wedding.html

Title: 'Heartbreaking and Beautiful' Message After a Crash:   [Society Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.13

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

column: Mini-Vows

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Intere st Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767530932

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/heartbreaking-beautiful-message-after-crash/docview/2767530932/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Auto Crash Claims Life Of a Player For Georgia: [Sports Desk]

Author: Rhim, Kris

Publication info: Rhim, Kris. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/auto-crash-claims-life-player-georgia/docview/2765657674/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Devin Willock, an offensive lineman, and Chandler LeCroy, a recruiting analyst, died after a vehicle driven by LeCroy crashed into power poles and trees.
Devin Willock, a redshirt sophomore on the University of Georgia football team, and Chandler LeCroy, a football recruiting analyst, died in a car crash early Sunday, several hours after the team was feted in Athens, Ga., with a parade for winning a national championship.
"The entire Georgia family is devastated by the tragic loss of football student-athlete Devin Willock and football staff member Chandler LeCroy," the university's athletic association said in a statement, adding: "Devin and Chandler were two special people who meant so much to the University of Georgia, our football program and our athletic department. We ask that everyone keep their families in your prayers during this very difficult time."
The Athens-Clarke County Police Department said in a statement that it responded to a single-vehicle crash at 2:45 a.m. Sunday in which a 2021 Ford Expedition struck two power poles and several trees. According to the police, LeCroy, 24, was the driver and was transported to a hospital, where she died from her injuries; Willock, 20, died at the scene.
Two other passengers, a 21-year-old man and a 26-year-old woman, were hurt in the crash and in stable condition, the police and the athletic association said.
The crash came hours after the University of Georgia's national championship parade on Saturday. The team was celebrating its rout last Monday night of Texas Christian University, which gave the program its second consecutive national championship. At the parade, members of the team rode in convertibles and pickups while waving to cheering fans and signing autographs.
Willock, a 6-foot-7, 335-pound offensive lineman from New Milford, N.J., had emerged as a significant contributor for the Bulldogs in the 2022 season, starting two games at right guard and playing in all 15 contests.
LeCroy had worked in various roles in Georgia's athletic department since 2019, beginning as the team's part-time recruiting analyst in May 2021, according to her LinkedIn profile.
"Devin was an outstanding young man in every way and was always smiling," Georgia Coach Kirby Smart said in a statement. "He was a great teammate and a joy to coach. Chandler was a valuable member of our football staff and brought an incredible attitude every single day."
Photograph Devin Willock, an offensive lineman from New Milford, N.J., played in all 15 games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DALE ZANINE/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page D6.

Subject: Athletic recruitment; Football; Coaches & managers

Location: United States--US; Georgia

Company / organization: Name: University of Georgia; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/15/sports/ncaafootball/georgia-player-crash-dies.html

Title: Auto Crash Claims Life Of a Player For Georgia:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 16, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2765657674

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/auto-crash-claims-life-player-georgia/docview/2765657674/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Mystery Man Who Targeted Manuscripts To Plead Guilty: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Harris, Elizabeth A; Alter, Alexandra

Publication info: Harris, Elizabeth A; Alter, Alexandra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mystery-man-who-targeted-manuscripts-plead-guilty/docview/2760400472/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Filippo Bernardini was arrested by the F.B.I. last year. He is expected to enter his plea on Friday, ending a yearslong saga that captivated the industry.
The mystery captivated the book world: For years, someone impersonated authors and agents, editors and publishers, trying to steal unpublished book manuscripts from high profile authors like Margaret Atwood, Ian McEwan and Ethan Hawke, but also from debut novelists and writers of more obscure works.
Now, a resolution to the yearslong scheme is near. On Friday, Filippo Bernardini is expected to plead guilty to wire fraud in front of a magistrate court judge in Manhattan, according to an email from the office of the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York that was sent to victims on Tuesday.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested Bernardini early last year, saying he had "impersonated, defrauded, and attempted to defraud, hundreds of individuals" over five or more years, gaining access to hundreds of unpublished manuscripts in the process.
A spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office declined to comment on Tuesday. Bernardini's lawyer did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Bernardini, an Italian citizen, worked as a rights coordinator for Simon & Schuster UK, and in his phishing attempts he displayed an insider's knowledge of how the industry works. He deployed shorthand like using "ms" instead of manuscripts, and had a detailed understanding of how agents, publishers, editors and translators operate.
To impersonate publishing professionals, he would make small changes to the domain name of an email address, so that an email that appeared to come from penguinrandomhouse.com in fact read penguinrandornhouse.com, with an "rn" in place of an "m." According to the indictment released when he was arrested, Bernardini registered more than 160 fraudulent internet domains that impersonated publishing professionals and companies. His phishing scheme dated to at least August 2016, and continued until the summer of 2021, the indictment said.
"They know who our clients are, they know how we interact with our clients, where sub-agents fit in and where primary agents fit in," Catherine Eccles, an owner of a literary scouting agency in London, told The New York Times in 2020. "They're very, very good."
Bernardini at times appeared to choose his targets based on deal announcements in industry publications like Publishers Marketplace and Publishers Weekly.
After Publishers Marketplace ran a small item noting that the novelist James Hannaham had sold his book "Re-Entry" to Little, Brown, Hannaham received an email that appeared to be from his editor, Ben George, requesting the latest draft. But the email went to an address that Hannaham seldom used, so instead of replying, he wrote to his editor directly, with the document attached. His editor called and said he'd never sent the message.
Other times, Bernardini made broad attempts to gain access to company databases. In addition to authors, Bernardini went after literary scouts and other publishing professionals. He targeted a New York City-based literary scouting company by setting up impostor login pages, which tricked victims into entering user names and passwords, and gave him access to the company's database, which contains plot synopses and other details about forthcoming books.
Even after Bernardini's arrest and his expected guilty plea, a number of questions remain. The biggest is his motive, as well as how he planned to profit from his thefts -- if he planned to profit at all. Cyber criminals who target Hollywood scripts, for example, often try to make money by posting them online and charging fans to read them. In other cybercrime schemes, thieves sell pirated works and stolen passwords on the dark web.
But in its indictment, the Justice Department never said that Bernardini had attempted to sell the manuscripts on the black market or publish pirated versions. Several publishing industry professionals who were targeted told The Times that they never saw the material surface. Some in the industry who followed the saga speculated that he may have been trying to enhance his reputation with insider knowledge of closely-held projects in order to advance in an insular world.
Bernardini claimed on his LinkedIn profile that he had received his bachelor's in Chinese language from Università Cattolica in Milan and obtained a master's degree in publishing from University College London. He had some experience as a translator, and worked on the Italian translation of the Chinese comic book author Rao Pingru's memoir, "Our Story." On LinkedIn, he described his passion as ensuring "books can be read and enjoyed all over the world and in multiple languages."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Publishing industry; Books; Editors; Manuscripts; Public prosecutors; Cybercrime

Business indexing term: Subject: Publishing industry

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/03/books/manuscript-phishing-scam-filippo-bernardini.html

Title: Mystery Man Who Targeted Manuscripts To Plead Guilty:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2760400472

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mystery-man-who-targeted-manuscripts-plead-guilty/docview/2760400472/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 4, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Dubai Suspends Its Tax on Alcohol in a Bid to Fend Off Its Regional Tourism Rivals: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Nereim, Vivian

Publication info: Nereim, Vivian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dubai-suspends-tax-on-alcohol-bid-fend-off/docview/2760045074/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Lower-cost liquor could help the emirate keep its edge over neighbors like Saudi Arabia and Qatar as the Middle East's hub for leisure and business.
Dubai started the new year by suspending its 30 percent tax on alcohol, a move that could help the Gulf emirate attract more tourists and businesses amid growing regional competition.
Dubai removed the tax on Sunday, along with the fee for a license that individuals need to buy alcohol, local beverage distributors said.
The emirate's government did not immediately confirm the policy changes, and the Dubai Media Office did not respond to a request for comment.
Offering significantly cheaper liquor is likely to bolster Dubai's position as the Middle East's center for tourism and business at a time when economists are warning of a global economic slowdown that could dent spending on travel and leisure.
More than 90 percent of Dubai's population are foreign residents, and alcohol has been widely available in the emirate for years, unlike nearby Saudi Arabia and Kuwait -- where it remains banned -- and Qatar, where its purchase is more restricted. But the hefty municipality tax drove up alcohol prices in the city-state, where residents complain about the rising cost of living and tourism is often oriented toward luxury.
The changes are likely to give a boost to the local hospitality industry, Maritime and Mercantile International, one of the country's main distributors, said on LinkedIn on Monday.
"The prices are here to stay and are on a long-term trial," another liquor distributor, African + Eastern, said in a statement. The Financial Times reported that the tax suspension would last for a test period of one year, citing industry executives.
"Huge credit to Dubai Government for taking such a bold decision," Jason Dixon, chief executive of African + Eastern, said on Monday, adding that the company would pass on the full savings to consumers. "This announcement will be especially transformative for tourists and residents."
The decision was the latest in a series of measures that appear to be designed to cement Dubai's position as the dominant hub for tourism and investment in the Middle East.
While it is still the most popular regional destination for tourists and foreign workers, Dubai is facing increasing competition from Qatar and Saudi Arabia, where Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has been overhauling the kingdom's oil-dependent economy and rapidly loosening social restrictions in an effort to make Riyadh, the capital, a global destination.
The Saudi government has reined in the religious police, eased a conservative dress code, sponsored concerts and raves, and offered its first tourist visas in 2019. Officials have also been deploying a mixture of incentives and ultimatums to persuade multinational companies to locate their regional headquarters in Riyadh instead of Dubai.
Last year, Prince Mohammed said he wanted to eventually increase the proportion of foreign residents to 70 percent of the kingdom's population, from around one third now. That would require making Saudi Arabia a more appealing place for foreigners to live. While alcohol is still illegal, rumors have been spreading for years that the policy could change, perhaps in restricted zones or hotels -- as it once was in Dubai.
A semi-independent city-state in the Muslim-majority United Arab Emirates, Dubai has been loosening its alcohol regulations for years. Nominally, the government requires individuals who want to buy alcohol to obtain a license, which are only available for non-Muslims over the age of 21. But in practice, bars, clubs and restaurants almost never ask to see a permit.
Over the past few years, the United Arab Emirates has also eased immigration rules, decriminalized cohabitation for unmarried couples, and changed to a global business-oriented working week of Monday through Friday, diverging from its neighbors, which maintain a weekend of Friday and Saturday to accommodate Islam's communal Friday prayers.
Those policy changes were intended to make the country a more attractive place for foreigners to work and live. As in neighboring Qatar, the entire economy hinges on foreigners, from the low-wage workers who build skyscrapers and pump gasoline to highly-paid executives and Instagram influencers.
While some Emiratis are uncomfortable with the pace and direction of their country's transformation, vocal dissent has been largely repressed.
The availability of alcohol became a flash point in Qatar last year as the country hosted the men's soccer World Cup, reversing direction at the last minute to ban beer sales at the stadiums. Liquor is available in hotels and many restaurants in Qatar, but far less so than in Dubai.
It was not immediately clear how Dubai's removal of the alcohol tax would affect the government's finances. The emirate does not collect personal income tax, but unlike neighboring Abu Dhabi, has no significant oil resources, and relies on revenue from other taxes and fees, including the levy on alcohol. The United Arab Emirates plans to introduce a 9 percent corporate income tax later this year.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A4.

Subject: Liquor laws & regulations; Foreign residents; Professional soccer; Economic conditions; Income taxes; Alcohol; Cost control; Tourism

Business indexing term: Subject: Foreign residents Economic conditions Income taxes Cost control

Location: Riyadh Saudi Arabia; Middle East; Saudi Arabia; Qatar; Dubai United Arab Emirates; United Arab Emirates

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/02/world/middleeast/dubai-alcohol-tax.html

Title: Dubai Suspends Its Tax on Alcohol in a Bid to Fend Off Its Regional Tourism Rivals:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2760045074

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dubai-suspends-tax-on-alcohol-bid-fend-off/docview/2760045074/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions