____________________________________________________________

Swept Along by a Theatrical Crime Wave: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Bahr, Sarah

Publication info: Bahr, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/swept-along-theatrical-crime-wave/docview/3141930528/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Ms. Russell, who hasn't missed a performance of her Off Broadway show in nearly 30 years, fills her day with pets, church, teaching and two shows.
For most of the last four decades, Catherine Russell has maybe -- possibly -- murdered someone eight times a week.
She has played a wealthy psychiatrist in the Off Broadway murder-mystery thriller "Perfect Crime" for 37 years. Choose any comparison you like -- the "Cal Ripken of Broadway," the "Ironwoman of the Theater District" -- but Ms. Russell, 69, has missed only four performances, early in the run, for her siblings' weddings.
She is celebrating 15,000 performances of the show, which began in 1987 and is New York City's longest-running play. She is powered by coffee and Snickers bars -- "I have a terrible diet," Ms. Russell says -- but can also do 180 Marine push-ups without stopping.
"I'm a Christian Scientist, so I don't smoke or drink," she said. "Maybe that helps."
Ms. Russell is also the general manager of the Theater Center in Times Square, which hosts "Perfect Crime" and three other Off Broadway shows, and teaches college English and acting classes six days a week.
She has an adult stepdaughter and lives in a Hell's Kitchen brownstone with three rescue dogs -- Riley, Zoe and Jip -- and three rescue cats, Winston, Zaza and Boots.
Her late husband, Patrick Robustelli, died in 2019. They were together for 24 years. "He was the great love of my life," Ms. Russell said.
PILE OF PETS My alarm goes off at 6:30 a.m. Three of my animals -- two of the dogs and one of the cats -- sleep on the bed, so if I don't get up when the alarm goes off, they start poking me and licking my face. They all have to get fed separately so they don't eat each other's food.
COFFEE AND NEWS I use a Nespresso Vertuo coffee maker. It's really easy -- you just put in the pod thing and make coffee and steam the milk. I'm a caffeine person, always. I drink three or four cups of coffee a day.
I get The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal delivered, and I read them cover to cover. I love reading the obituaries because people's lives are so fascinating.
GRADING AND GROOVING At the beginning of the semester, I always ask each student when they introduce themselves: "When I'm grading your papers, what music would you like me to listen to?" They think it's kind of funny, but then if somebody says "Young Thug," when I'm reading Diego's paper, I'll listen to Young Thug. They like that I'm asking about their music, and I have extensive knowledge now of people I never would've heard of otherwise.
LET'S MAKE A DEAL I block out an hour and a half to work on business pitches I'm making in the upcoming week. I'm raising $ 10 million to take a garage on West 49th Street and convert it into five Off Broadway theaters. We need more well-appointed, clean, accessible Off Broadway theaters.
BAGEL RUN I stop by Hudson Bagel and get a sesame bagel, toasted, with very little cream cheese. I walk in there and they already do it for me -- I'm a very predictable person, I'm afraid.
HOLY HOUR I go to church at 11 a.m. at Fifth Church of Christ, Scientist at 43rd and Fifth. I've been going there for the last 10 years. My maternal grandfather bunked next to a Christian Scientist in World War I, so basically my whole family has been Christian Scientist ever since. Every Christian Science service is exactly the same, on every Sunday, in every church. There's no sermon, there's no minister -- just a lesson. You expect good from people, so it's been really helpful for me my entire life.
ACT AND SIP I teach a 90-minute class on Sundays at 12:30 p.m. on the stage before "Perfect Crime." People introduce themselves, and then I pair them with someone they didn't come with. I give them a scene from "Friends" or "Grey's Anatomy" -- like a page -- and they practice it with their partner. These are people who are not actors. The class gives them feedback, and then they do it again.
A lot of people are actually pretty good. It's not like they're going to go out and become a famous actor, but they're like, "Wow, that's a skill I didn't know I had." It's fun to watch that.
BLISSED-OUT BLOWOUT I get my hair blow-dried for 25 minutes every week at City Star by my favorite stylist, Anwar. That's my peaceful time -- I shut my eyes, turn my phone off and read. For 25 minutes, no one can bother me. It's the only time of the week that's purely mine.
SECRET INGREDIENT You're supposed to be at the theater half an hour before curtain, but on Sundays, no one says anything if I come in at 20 till 3. It takes me two minutes to get ready. In my dressing room, I have seven big bottles of very, very cheap vodka, which we use to spray all the costumes for the four shows that play here. It gets rid of the odor and disinfects them!
MURDER, ROUND 1 I have the first performance of "Perfect Crime" of the day at 3 p.m. I started playing Margaret Brent -- a wealthy psychiatrist accused of murdering her husband -- when I was 31. That was in 1987, so we've had a few updates. My character marries someone with a lot of money, and that started out as $ 10 million, and now it's $ 900 million. We also added cellphones, because there were no cellphones in 1987 -- I think it was a car phone.
It's never the same performance from night to night. Some people think, "She's going to be walking through it," but part of being an actor is that whatever happened to you during the day, you incorporate it. If I had a fight with the guy at the deli half an hour before I got onstage, maybe I start out a little bitchier than usual.
STEP RIGHT UP From 5:30 p.m. to 6 p.m., I run the box office for "Friends! The Musical Parody." I'm the general manager for that show, as well as for the three others playing in our two theaters. I try to run the box office at least once on Saturday or Sunday for half an hour so I can see who's coming in and what questions people are asking, how sales are doing.
I like being in the theater -- I don't mind mopping the floor, plunging the toilet or running the box office.
CHECKING IN I pop into Patzeria, the restaurant I manage on West 46th Street, around 6:15 p.m. to check in on the Sunday business and talk through any issues with the guys who run it for me. The guys who run it are really great -- they all worked for my husband.
MURDER, ROUND 2 We have our second performance of "Perfect Crime" at 7:30 p.m. The audience is different on different nights of the week: On Saturday nights, you get lots of drunk people. But on Sunday nights, people don't even laugh -- they're listening. They come for the mystery. That's the cool thing about being in a small theater -- it's very interactive. I love when I'm onstage and I hear someone gasp.
A SLICE AND A STROLL After locking up the Theater Center at 10:15 p.m., I make one more stop back at Patzeria to grab a slice of pizza; the white slice is my favorite. Sometimes I get pasta, too.
I'm back home by 11 p.m. It's a 10-minute walk. I'll watch CNN, if it's not too depressing.
OUT LIKE A LIGHT My head hits the pillow around 1 a.m. I fall asleep immediately -- no Sunday scaries here! My husband used to joke that if a fire engine came screaming by, I wouldn't hear it. Work hard, sleep well!
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIMI D'AUTREMONT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page MB2.

Subject: Cellular telephones; Off-Broadway theater; Psychiatrists; Actors; Coffee; Theaters & cinemas

Business indexing term: Subject: Theaters & cinemas

People: Young Thug (rapper)

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/07/nyregion/catherine-russell-perfect-crime.html

Title: Swept Along by a Theatrical Crime Wave:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 8, 2024

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3141930528

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/swept-along-theatrical-crime-wave/docview/3141930528/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Rock's Cool Queen Is in a New Era: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Ganz, Caryn

Publication info: Ganz, Caryn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rocks-cool-queen-is-new-era/docview/3132223946/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In her pink-tiled bathroom with a sky-blue tub, Kim Deal gripped a wad of cables in one hand and squatted to peer down a laundry chute.
She bought this modest Dayton, Ohio, house in 1990 when she was in two of the defining bands of the alternative era -- Pixies and the Breeders -- and turned its basement into a laboratory of rock. She eventually added recording gear to the main bedroom, and was demonstrating how she'd threaded its wiring up to the second floor.
"There's a snake down there that has many inputs," she explained, then dashed up a flight of white wooden stairs with the deftness of someone who's done it a hundred thousand times. She grinned and pointed at the cords' destination. Wasn't it great?
It was a crisp October night in the unassuming Midwestern city that's still home to the Breeders, and leaves rustled beneath Deal's yellow-soled Hokas. The two-bedroom, like Deal herself, is low-key and designed for music-making. A Mac computer and its accessories lay on the floor in front of a bookshelf holding paperbacks and 45s, though ironically, she's never been good at keeping a record collection. "Supposedly I have some rare ones," she said, thumbing through a handful. "This is El Inquilino Comunista, a Spanish band, they were good."
Trends and names come and go, but despite living very much out of the spotlight, Deal has had a grip on the popular imagination for nearly four decades with her confounding lyrics, starry nonchalance and a distinctive singing voice that's like cotton candy cut with paint thinner. "Cannonball," a crunchy earworm with a slippery bass line from the Breeders' second album, "Last Splash," is sonic shorthand for "the '90s." Kurt Cobain loved her songs and took the band on tour with Nirvana in 1993; the 21-year-old pop star Olivia Rodrigo did the same in 2024.
This month, at 63, Deal is finally releasing a full album under her own name, titled "Nobody Loves You More," that is more than a new twist on a familiar aesthetic. It's a statement of evolution from a fiercely independent artist in maturity -- a project that evolved over the tumultuous years as Deal sorted out her sobriety, pried open old band wounds and devoted herself to her aging parents. Her mother and father both passed before she turned these long-gestating songs into an album. After it was finished, the man who helped make it, her beloved co-conspirator Steve Albini, died suddenly of a heart attack. He was 61.
Grappling with loss (and what's still at stake for the living) didn't lead her to withdraw; she expanded. The solo album brings together lushly orchestrated dreamscapes, wistful reveries and even noisy beats. Deal, who does not rush into anything, approached the transformation with her trademark scrutiny and humor.
"The fact that there's trumpets and horns -- trombones and stuff. I really had to think about it," she said over the summer, reflecting on her past catalog of amped-up rock. "The ukulele almost broke me."
DEAL'S CAREER BEGAN one week after she moved to Boston in 1986, when she was the lone respondent to an alt-weekly advertisement for a musician "into Hüsker Dü and Peter, Paul and Mary" that came with an amusing caveat: "Please, no chops."
She had married one of her brother's co-workers from the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, and relocated to his hometown. (Speaking with Deal today, one gets the impression this was the most conventional series of decisions she's ever made.) The ad led her to the college friends Charles Thompson -- the songwriter, guitarist and frontman known as Black Francis, later Frank Black -- and Joey Santiago, and she agreed to switch from guitar to bass for their embryonic band.
Two years later, Pixies were on the road in Europe supporting their first album, "Surfer Rosa," when their melodic, thrashy rock -- a spark that exploded into flames and quickly shrank to a smolder -- clicked with audiences. In a cheeky eye roll at heteronormativity, Deal billed herself as "Mrs. John Murphy" (she got divorced the next year), and in a stroke of serendipity, she had women tourmates: Tanya Donelly and Kristin Hersh from Throwing Muses, who became fast friends. Back home in Dayton, "Dudes weren't dying to play with the chick," she said. "It made you look a little weak."
For Deal, who had been working as a medical laboratory technician and playing bars and weddings with her twin sister, Kelley, that first trek was "the best tour I've ever been on," she said. But as Pixies swiftly blew up into one of the hottest bands in underground rock, the reality of road life hit hard.
"I just remember all of 'Doolittle' as me heavy bleeding all through Europe in a bus with men, looking for sanitary napkins," she said of the group's tour for its wildly influential 1989 breakthrough. "I didn't journal about like, the struggles of being a woman in a band. What I did was I went to the desk and asked them in the best way I could, 'Where is a farmacia?"'
Pixies' music was startling and mysterious; the two characters trading lines onstage were too. Deal was a former cheerleader with a mischievous yet reassuring smile who started writing songs shortly after getting her hands on her father's acoustic guitar at age 13. Her airy backing vocals provided a foil for Thompson's gritty howls, yet the group's musical magic didn't align with its personal alchemy. Deal was comfortable with her role, but ultimately Pixies were not her band.
"My main understanding of Kim is that she's a songwriter," Kelley said in a phone interview. Deal co-wrote "Gigantic," one of Pixies' most beloved songs, but it was one of her only contributions. She found an outlet with Donelly for what became the first Breeders album, the dark trip "Pod," which they recorded in Scotland. Pixies relations by then had deteriorated as stress, egos and poor decisions collided in stifling proximity. When Deal returned to the United States, she learned that the rest of the quartet had moved to Los Angeles to make a new LP.
"One hopes that doesn't happen in a band," she said outside an L.A. hotel in August, her deadpan barely covering the scar.
Pixies released two more albums before splitting in 1993. By then, "Last Splash" was in the chamber; Donelly had stepped aside to start her band Belly, and Kelley was recruited as a replacement on lead guitar, an instrument she did not yet play. The bassist Josephine Wiggs -- a dry Brit whom Deal had met on tour -- stayed on, and Deal found a powerhouse drummer, Jim Macpherson, playing in a local club.
Sliding into the driver's seat of her own band, Deal practically invented a new way to be a rock star. Her songs could scan sexy, but she never performed femininity. She was simultaneously relatable and evasive; precise and loose. (If you're looking for a through line in Deal's career, keep an eye on dualities.) "Last Splash" included the warped sound of a sewing machine and a bluegrassy fiddle.
The singer and songwriter Lucy Dacus, 29, said she fell in love with the album's breadth a few years ago. "From the music alone, there's this comfortable confidence that a lot of people try to copy, and they're trying too hard," the boygenius member said in a phone interview. "I just like people who I can tell aren't playing by any particular set of rules -- they're just playing."
The album sold a million copies and the Breeders performed on the main stage of Lollapalooza, but Deal didn't rush to capitalize with a follow-up. In fact, it never occurred to them. "This is what's so great about us," she said. "We have no clue."
DEAL HAS BEEN cast as both the world's most intimidating rock star and the most down to earth. Either way, fans are certain they want to hang out with her. (They'd probably end up checking out a laundry chute.) "Got some sunglasses there," she earnestly narrated on a drive around Dayton. "Couple of tops there -- I got this shirt there. It's a really good, easy shirt to wear."
Her conversations are punctuated with whispers, penetrating stares, searching gazes and the occasional arm grab. She is partial to physical re-enactments, and can wind any topic back to her comfort zone: the specifics of recording sound. She's a horror and true-crime aficionado and a coffee fanatic. (The Nespresso travels in its own road case.) Her laugh -- a gasp that spreads into a warm giggle -- breaks out frequently.
"She is one of the funniest people I know," Kelley said. "When I look at her or think about her, all I think about is how hysterical she is." Reminded that many people first think about how cool Kim is (there's a 1997 Dandy Warhols song about just that), Kelley balked: "She's not that [expletive] cool to me."
Another cool Kim's take? "She's just herself, which is so great," said Kim Gordon of Sonic Youth, a peer who clocked Deal as a kindred spirit. "She's not branding anything," she said, adding that Deal "has a vision that she definitely just will persist at until she gets."
Deal's humor is as much a part of her songwriting as her "rich vein of cynicism," as Kelley put it. Her lyrics evolve in a very quirky way: Deal writes by hand on a "hierarchy of paper." She'll start out jotting lyrics on "plain white paper, or lined thin paper," and the best of her scribbles move to scalloped paper plates. Once Deal is headed to the studio, she switches to folders taped together "because you can hear paper plates moving and stuff, and they won't stay on music stands." Working out the music, Deal will exhaustively chase an idea down a rabbit hole until she hits a eureka moment: "I mean it's so stupid, but it has to sound special for me," she said.
The two people who best understand Deal's quirks -- Kelley, and Kim's best friend, Kyle Rector -- are never more than a shout or a FaceTime away. (Rector, her weed dealer in the '90s, is a onetime boyfriend. The Elaine to her Jerry? "Actually, I think I'm Elaine and he's George," she said.) Two years ago, she adopted a skittish rescue dog, Ruby, a red heeler mix with remarkable, glassy eyes.
Deal lost the other person with the clearest insight into her artistic hardwiring in May: Albini, the lauded, prickly recording engineer who worked on nearly every one of her projects. It's hard to imagine a Kim Deal profile without a colorful Albini quote. ("The two elements always at war in Kim's music are prettiness and decadence, the deb and the dirtbag each holding a ladder for the other," he told New York magazine in 2018. The duality strikes again.)
Sitting on a swivel chair at Albini's Electrical Audio studio in Chicago two days after playing his July memorial, Deal spoke of him exclusively in the present tense, marveling at how he'd shaped her world since he recorded Pixies' "Surfer Rosa." Her friends and collaborators "all emanate with Steve," she said. "It's like, 'Oh! That's why I know all these people."'
Heather Whinna, Albini's widow, said Deal's painstaking process flew in the face of her husband's straightforward recording philosophy, but he bent to her wishes. "I can't explain how special Kim is," she said in a video interview, "except to tell you that I know that Steve admired her more than he admired anyone else in music."
IN THE LATE '90S, Deal searched for her perfect sound in New York studios, burning through money and good will. In 2002, she checked into rehab. "Somebody said this and I recognized myself," she told me five years later: "I wasn't a musician with some drugs in the room, I was a drug addict with some musical gear in the room."
When her parents picked her up from the Hazelden clinic in Minnesota, they delivered upsetting news: Her mother, who'd worked as an X-ray tech and teacher, was in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease. Deal moved home, but was soon on the road again. In a surprise that stunned fans and kicked off a reunion craze in the concert industry, Pixies got back together to tour. Deal agreed, as long as they still sounded good. She was part-tickled, part-horrified to find they sounded "exactly the same." A documentary crew captured an uncomfortable band struggling to relate while a freshly sober Deal nervously puffed a seemingly endless cigarette and young female fans swooned at her feet.
Deal, who had long said she wouldn't play on a new Pixies album, stuck around until 2011; the band released an LP in 2014. She returned to a familiar refuge -- her "Last Splash" lineup of the Breeders, all fences mended after two albums with different casts of musicians -- while chipping away at a batch of songs that felt appropriate simply to call her own.
The writing and refining slowly progressed; her mother's condition worsened. It's the inspiration behind one of the beautiful, haunting songs on her solo record: "Are You Mine?," which Deal hopes reads as a love song ("Are you mine? / Are you my baby?") even though it's rooted in heartbreaking confusion. Deal lived at home and cared for her parents until her father passed in April 2019, and her mother died in February 2020.
"I think back and it's like, I can't believe what I went through," she said in the Dayton kitchen, pressing her hands against her face and staring into nothingness. "It was [expletive] intense. I'm not complaining. It's just like, totally unbelievable. Like the difference between what a life is, living, and then when you put caregiving in as a No. 1 job, and then what that entails and how much of my day and life was about that."
And then they were gone. Soon their house was too. It was sitting on a culvert the city needed to access; Deal watched as a giant claw tore down her bedroom.
Her father, a physicist who specialized in lasers, had always loved the Florida Keys, and Deal found herself wandering down to the islands for creative breathing room over the years. "The view is nice to write to," she said; there was an addendum. "But I don't like the beach and I don't like the sun. And I don't like to get hot. And I don't like water sports. And I don't like laying out. But I did like the view."
She had just settled in with two carloads of gear when the pandemic hit. For five months, she was trapped there, alone. (There were checkpoints on the island for residents, and she couldn't abandon the equipment.) Out of necessity, the queen of analog recording learned the digital software Pro Tools. Kelley thinks she secretly loves the ability to adjust the landing of a kick drum just so.
"Nobody Loves You More" opens with a delightful surprise: Its title track is one of a handful of songs that comprise a grand, cinematic universe of swooping strings and robust horns befitting dancers twirling around a ballroom floor. Its counterpart, "Summerland," features the aforementioned ukulele, a gift from Albini when Deal played his wedding in Hawaii. She sang the orchestrations and painstakingly figured out each corresponding note before handing them off to an arranger. "It's like, oh, that's why people learn how to write music," she said. "That would be handy."
Kelley plays guitar on "Coast," a winking sand jam inspired by a trip to Nantucket to dry out around 2000, as well as "Disobedience," a crispy rock song about desires big and small. The woozy "Wish I Was," like "Are You Mine?," was released as part of a singles collection in 2013, but as an instrumental; its lyrics are uncharacteristically straightforward: "Wish I was," Deal sings, pausing before the word "young."
THE BREEDERS ARE such a bedrock of Dayton history, they're now enshrined in the city's Walk of Fame for their "indelible contribution to alternative rock." Deal missed the ceremony when she was in Europe preparing for her album release, so she added it to an impromptu tour of the city, and squatted down for a pic beside their square, adorned with a treble clef.
She navigated to a charming strip in the arts district, pausing outside the Trolley Stop, a 19th-century tavern with a small stage where she and Kelley used to perform in the early days. After a quick FaceTime with Kelley to clarify why their father decided to have his cremated remains housed in a columbarium -- a word she said with relish -- Deal directed us to a leafy cemetery and pointed out the two spots beside her parents' names reserved for her and her sister.
After so many years of caregiving, she ostensibly was about to embark on a fresh era free from the hum of constant worry. But over the summer, she learned her dog was going blind. Ruby is now on a regimen of five-plus eyedrops a day, and has become a growing concern.
"I'm having trouble with the dog," she had confided in a near whisper the night before, leaning over her round kitchen table. "I cannot write a song with the dog around." Ruby has a lot of energy, and "I have this train of thought and it's like ..." She was flummoxed.
But Kim Deal has never suppressed a flicker of creativity. "Now I really have some ideas," she said. "I'm going to have to hide somewhere with the guitar."
Photograph Kim Deal's new album, "Nobody Loves You More," is a statement of evolution from a fiercely independent artist in maturity. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANTAL ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR20); Deal in Dayton, Ohio, this fall. She has been cast as the most intimidating rock star as well as the most down to earth. (AR21) This article appeared in print on page AR20, AR21.

Subject: Bands; Songwriters; Musical performances

Location: Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/15/arts/music/kim-deal-nobody-loves-you-more.html

Title: Rock's Cool Queen Is in a New Era:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.20

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 24, 2024

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132223946

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rocks-cool-queen-is-new-era/docview/3132223946/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Togetherness as a Recipe for Success: [Style Desk]

Author: Kahn, Mattie

Publication info: Kahn, Mattie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/togetherness-as-recipe-success/docview/3106573089/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Comedy defangs the taboo, so Stephen Colbert and Evie McGee Colbert have decided, at last, to tell the dreaded spoon story. The two have celebrated milestone anniversaries, welcomed three children and one dog, and now released the cookbook "Does This Taste Funny? Recipes Our Family Loves." Secure in that solid foundation, Mr. Colbert and Ms. McGee Colbert conceded the time had come to revisit what has come to be one of the defining moments of their union.
It goes like this: The Colberts were just married and living in Chicago, where Mr. Colbert launched his career performing with Second City, when Ms. McGee Colbert took a metal spoon out from a drawer and scraped it across the surface of their pristine set of Calphalon nonstick pans.
Off in the distance, but almost visible from the porch of their home on Sullivan's Island in South Carolina where this interview took place, Fort Sumter marks the ground where the Civil War broke out in 1861. The stakes of this inciting incident were only somewhat less consequential.
"We move into this apartment," Ms. McGee Colbert recalled, "and I think we're going to be chopping basil and cooking together and drinking wine and listening to Chet Baker." Her new husband wasted no time disabusing her of those notions. "He's like, 'You shouldn't do that,"' she said.
"I believe I said, 'How about a wooden spoon?"' Mr. Colbert countered, head in hands.
Ms. McGee Colbert dropped her weapon and withdrew. She took one look at the man to whom she had pledged her troth and declared that there would be no more "having a fabulous time" in the kitchen. Mr. Colbert could have his mise en place and sparkling cookware. In the parlance of "Top Chef," she packed her knives and went.
"I was like, 'I'm out,"' Ms. McGee Colbert said. Next to her on a rattan couch in the humid Charelstonian summer, Mr. Colbert wiped his brow and groaned.
For almost three decades, Ms. McGee Colbert kept her promise. Mr. Colbert snagged jobs writing and performing, rising to correspondent on "The Daily Show" and later starring in "The Colbert Report." All the while, the two maintained their separate domestic spheres. When their children were small and fastidious eaters, Mr. Colbert took to preparing "beautiful things for dinner, and then I would feed them," Ms. McGee Colbert remembered.
"We still drank a lot of wine," Mr. Colbert insisted. "We just didn't do it while cooking."
But then the pandemic descended and Mr. Colbert -- the kind of master of the universe for whom the term "control freak" might be an honorable distinction -- had no choice but to collaborate with his wife. Hunkered down in South Carolina to ride out the crisis, he had to host "The Late Show" -- which he took over in 2015 -- with no on-site staff and minimal equipment. Ms. McGee Colbert soon assumed the duties of several production departments. "I couldn't believe all the lights and the wires. It was chaos," she said. Within a few weeks, she appeared as a guest, running up from the ad hoc control room to brush her hair and put on a blouse.
"I said, 'You've never had someone do all of this! I'm the guest. I'm the director. I'm the sound."' Ms. McGee Colbert said.
"I was so nervous," Mr. Colbert said. "And in the middle of it, she said, 'You're so nervous!' And I said to her, 'I'm worried you're not going to have fun!"' But she did have fun. And so did he.
"And that was the beginning of 15 months of doing that together," Mr. Colbert continued.
Mr. Colbert had once been pitched on a cookbook, but he hadn't been interested in conceptualizing one alone. When Celadon Books revived the proposition at the end of 2021 and expressed openness to Ms. McGee Colbert's participation, the couple was game.
"We had become a tag team," Mr. Colbert said. And while Teflon "can't heal," as he pointed out in a hushed tone after Ms. McGee Colbert went inside, she and he had grown.
"It was kind of perfect timing," Ms. McGee Colbert said. "Because I was rediscovering the recipes I grew up with." The Colberts met as adults, but both were raised in Charleston. Ms. McGee Colbert's sister lives across the street from their current home. The cookbook is dedicated to Ms. McGee Colbert's mother, whose house was two blocks over. In the middle of a progressive illness, Patti McGee pored over passed-down recipes with her daughter. Her choicest selections made it into "Does This Taste Funny?" -- minus the Jell-O salads.
No cottage cheese-accented ambrosia in the finished product, but Mr. Colbert said he had retained some reverence for the old formulas. The taste of his childhood is still recipes cribbed from the back of ketchup bottles and soup mixes. His mother -- who had eleven children and had to raise Mr. Colbert and his siblings on her own after his father and two brothers were killed in a plane crash in 1974 -- was a pragmatic and frugal cook. Twice a month, she loaded up on discount bread and Tetris-ed the loaves into the back of her station wagon. Mr. Colbert can reconstruct the taste of powdered milk even now. She was not the kind of mother who took requests for dinner, although Mr. Colbert's sister Elizabeth Colbert-Busch remembered she did like to experiment with international cuisines. "One night we would have German food, one night we'd have French food, and then we would all get dressed up," she said. "You can see where the theater came in with the cooking."
When the extended clan gathers now, Ms. Colbert-Busch knows it is her brother's show. "He is so polite," she said. But she validated Ms. McGee Colbert's experience of Mr. Colbert's meticulousness. Once, she brought over a bunch of "beautiful" heirloom carrots to prepare at his house. "I was to clean the carrots, wash the carrots, and put them to roast in the oven, so I did -- at least, I thought I did," she said. She couldn't help but notice Mr. Colbert pacing behind her.
Mr. Colbert started preparing his own food as a child, catching fish and cleaning them, but it was working as a waiter while he tried to break into acting that formed his real education. "I love it," he said. "I love the magic of it -- how this thing becomes another thing." He has long felt a kinship with the show "Chopped" on the Food Network in which contestants are tasked with combining discordant ingredients to make one cohesive dish. "That's what it's like to do our show," he said. "You get in there, and it's like, 'What are the ingredients? What is the national conversation in the last 24 hours? And how is that a meal?"'
Despite their shared love of food, Mr. Colbert and Ms. McGee Colbert were conscious of the limited impact of a warm and winking cookbook, released on the eve of another election cycle in the United States.
Mr. Colbert does not believe that a series of dinner parties can solve political polarization. "I mean, how good of a meal are we talking? What are we serving?" Mr. Colbert asked, with a smile.
But after a pause, he reconsidered. There were whole swaths of people with whom he would rather not share pearlescent shrimp paste and burnished cheese biscuits, but he wasn't proud of it. "I do think that's a failing," he said. "I would like to be a person who could do that." His Catholic faith compelled him to at least aspire to better. "It's at the heart of the Mass," he continued. "That's what it's about."
Asked whether a bad meal or a bad performance was worse, he did not hesitate. When a dish collapses, an evening can be salvaged. "Wine's cold," he said. A sleeve of Ritz crackers and a well-made espresso martini -- a more recent fixation for Mr. Colbert, who whips them up with a Nespresso machine that his old boss Jon Stewart gifted him -- can cover a multitude of sins. But a disastrous show? It leaves a sour taste.
An hour later, he was still thinking about it. "The reason the bad show is worse is because you never get another swipe at it," he said. "You never get that box of ingredients again. With cooking, you keep getting to try."
Photograph Stephen Colbert and Evie McGee Colbert found common ground in the kitchen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LESLIE RYANN McKELLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1); Stephen Colbert and Evie McGee Colbert, top and above on "The Late Show" in 2020. Top right, in the cookbook, there are recipes for Sullivan's Island Shrimp Paste (left) and Patti McGee's Cheese Biscuits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LESLIE RYANN McKELLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SCOTT KOWALCHYK/CBS, VIA GETTY IMAGES; ERIC WOLFINGER) (D8) This article appeared in print on page D1, D8.

Subject: Cooking; Personal profiles

Location: South Carolina; United States--US

People: Colbert, Stephen

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/15/style/stephen-colbert-does-this-taste-funny-cookbook.html

Title: Togetherness as a Recipe for Success:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 19, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Int erest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3106573089

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/togetherness-as-recipe-success/docview/3106573089/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Couple That (Eventually) Cooked Together

Author: Kahn, Mattie

Publication info: Kahn, Mattie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/couple-that-eventually-cooked-together/docview/3106517028/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Comedy defangs the taboo, so Stephen Colbert and Evie McGee Colbert have decided, at last, to tell the dreaded spoon story. The two have celebrated milestone anniversaries, welcomed three children and one dog, and now released the cookbook “Does This Taste Funny? Recipes Our Family Loves.” Secure in that solid foundation, Colbert and McGee Colbert conceded the time had come to revisit what has come to be one of the defining moments of their union.
It goes like this: The Colberts were just married and living in Chicago, where Colbert launched his career performing with Second City, when McGee Colbert took a metal spoon out from a drawer and scraped it across the surface of their pristine set of Calphalon nonstick pans.
Off in the distance, but almost visible from the porch of their home on Sullivan’s Island in South Carolina where this interview took place, Fort Sumter marks the ground where the Civil War broke out in 1861. The stakes of this inciting incident were only somewhat less consequential.
“We move into this apartment,” McGee Colbert recalled, “and I think we’re going to be chopping basil and cooking together and drinking wine and listening to Chet Baker.” Her new husband wasted no time disabusing her of those notions. “He’s like, ‘You shouldn’t do that,’” she said.
“I believe I said, ‘How about a wooden spoon?’” Colbert countered, head in hands.
McGee Colbert dropped her weapon and withdrew. She took one look at the man to whom she had pledged her troth and declared that there would be no more “having a fabulous time” in the kitchen. Colbert could have his mise en place and sparkling cookware. In the parlance of “Top Chef,” she packed her knives and went.
“I was like, ‘I’m out,’” McGee Colbert said. Next to her on a rattan couch in the humid Charelstonian summer, Colbert wiped his brow and groaned.
For almost three decades, McGee Colbert kept her promise. Colbert snagged jobs writing and performing, rising to correspondent on “The Daily Show” and later starring in “The Colbert Report.” All the while, the two maintained their separate domestic spheres. When their children were small and fastidious eaters, Colbert took to preparing “beautiful things for dinner, and then I would feed them,” McGee Colbert remembered.
“We still drank a lot of wine,” Colbert insisted. “We just didn’t do it while cooking.”
But then the COVID-19 pandemic descended and Colbert — the kind of master of the universe for whom the term “control freak” might be an honorable distinction — had no choice but to collaborate with his wife. Hunkered down in South Carolina to ride out the crisis, he had to host “The Late Show” — which he took over in 2015 — with no on-site staff and minimal equipment. McGee Colbert soon assumed the duties of several production departments. “I couldn’t believe all the lights and the wires. It was chaos,” she said. Within a few weeks, she appeared as a guest, running up from the ad hoc control room to brush her hair and put on a blouse.
“I said, ‘You’ve never had someone do all of this! I’m the guest. I’m the director. I’m the sound.’” McGee Colbert said.
“I was so nervous,” Colbert said. “And in the middle of it, she said, ‘You’re so nervous!’ And I said to her, ‘I’m worried you’re not going to have fun!’” But she did have fun. And so did he.
“And that was the beginning of 15 months of doing that together,” Colbert continued.
Colbert had once been pitched on a cookbook, but he hadn’t been interested in conceptualizing one alone. When Celadon Books revived the proposition at the end of 2021 and expressed openness to McGee Colbert’s participation, the couple was game.
“We had become a tag team,” Colbert said. And while Teflon “can’t heal,” as he pointed out in a hushed tone after McGee Colbert went inside, she and he had grown.
“It was kind of perfect timing,” McGee Colbert said. “Because I was rediscovering the recipes I grew up with.” The Colberts met as adults, but both were raised in Charleston, South Carolina. McGee Colbert’s sister lives across the street from their current home. The cookbook is dedicated to McGee Colbert’s mother, whose house was two blocks over. In the middle of a progressive illness, Patti McGee poured over passed-down recipes with her daughter. Her choicest selections made it into “Does This Taste Funny?” — minus the Jell-O salads.
No cottage cheese-accented ambrosia in the finished product, but Colbert said he had retained some reverence for the old formulas. The taste of his childhood is still recipes cribbed from the back of ketchup bottles and soup mixes. His mother — who had 11 children and had to raise Colbert and his siblings on her own after his father and two brothers were killed in a plane crash in 1974 — was a pragmatic and frugal cook. Twice a month, she loaded up on discount bread and Tetris-ed the loaves into the back of her station wagon. Colbert can reconstruct the taste of powdered milk even now. She was not the kind of mother who took requests for dinner, although Colbert’s sister Elizabeth Colbert-Busch remembered she did like to experiment with international cuisines. “One night we would have German food, one night we’d have French food, and then we would all get dressed up,” she said. “You can see where the theater came in with the cooking.”
When the extended clan gathers now, Colbert-Busch knows it is her brother’s show. “He is so polite,” she said. But she validated McGee Colbert’s experience of Colbert’s meticulousness. Once, she brought over a bunch of “beautiful” heirloom carrots to prepare at his house. “I was to clean the carrots, wash the carrots, and put them to roast in the oven, so I did — at least, I thought I did,” she said. She couldn’t help but notice Colbert pacing behind her.
Colbert started preparing his own food as a child, catching fish and cleaning them, but it was working as a waiter while he tried to break into acting that formed his real education. “I love it,” he said. “I love the magic of it — how this thing becomes another thing.” He has long felt a kinship with the show “Chopped” on the Food Network in which contestants are tasked with combining discordant ingredients to make one cohesive dish. “That’s what it’s like to do our show,” he said. “You get in there, and it’s like, ‘What are the ingredients? What is the national conversation in the last 24 hours? And how is that a meal?’”
Despite their shared love of food, Colbert and McGee Colbert were conscious of the limited impact of a warm and winking cookbook, released on the eve of another election cycle in the United States.
Colbert does not believe that a series of dinner parties can solve political polarization. “I mean, how good of a meal are we talking? What are we serving?” Colbert asked, with a smile.
But after a pause, he reconsidered. There were whole swaths of people with whom he would rather not share pearlescent shrimp paste and burnished cheese biscuits, but he wasn’t proud of it. “I do think that’s a failing,” he said. “I would like to be a person who could do that.” His Catholic faith compelled him to at least aspire to better. “It’s at the heart of the Mass,” he continued. “That’s what it’s about.”
Asked whether a bad meal or a bad performance was worse, he did not hesitate. When a dish collapses, an evening can be salvaged. “Wine’s cold,” he said. A sleeve of Ritz crackers and a well-made espresso martini — a more recent fixation for Colbert, who whips them up with a Nespresso machine that his old boss, Jon Stewart, gifted him — can cover a multitude of sins. But a disastrous show? It leaves a sour taste.
An hour later, he was still thinking about it. “The reason the bad show is worse is because you never get another swipe at it,” he said. “You never get that box of ingredients again. With cooking, you keep getting to try.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Recipes; Cooking; Personal profiles

Location: South Carolina; New York; United States--US

People: Colbert, Stephen

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Kahn, Mattie; Charleston (Sc); United States; French Food (Cuisine); Contests And Prizes; Love (Emotion); Roman Catholic Church; Food Network; South Carolina; Cooking And Cookbooks; Utensils And Cutlery; Television; Chicago (Ill); Memory; Comedy And Humor; Fort Sumter (Sc); Elections; Cookware; Civil War (Us) (1861 65); Stewart, Jon; Colbert, Stephen; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Recipes; Carrots; Lifestyle; Celadon Books; Second City; Wines; Food

Title: A Couple That (Eventually) Cooked Together

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 18, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-18T22:33:28Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3106517028

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/couple-that-eventually-cooked-together/docview/3106517028/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Sure, His Parents Have Long Coattails: [Style Desk]

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sure-his-parents-have-long-coattails/docview/3101745768/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In a series of videos, Jack Robbins has been lampooning nepo baby culture -- and embracing it -- with help from his parents and Steven Spielberg's daughter.
For Jack Henry Robbins, the day begins with stretching and meditation, followed by two to three seconds of tooth brushing. After visiting his favorite neighborhood coffee shop, a Nespresso boutique on the Upper East Side, he returns home to begin work.
"Every day, I like to wake up and I either sell a show to HBO or Netflix based on my mood," Mr. Robbins tells the camera. "Today, I'm pitching a TV show I thought of yesterday that is basically 'Star Wars' set in a sewer system -- I sold it!"
Triumphantly closing his laptop, Mr. Robbins adds, "I'm off to visit my famous mom."
That, anyway, is how Mr. Robbins, the son of the actors Tim Robbins and Susan Sarandon, portrayed himself in "Day in the Life of a Nepo Baby," a video he posted to Instagram last November that has been viewed more than three million times.
Since then, Mr. Robbins, 35, has released a series of over-the-top clips on Instagram and TikTok purporting to pull back the curtain on what it's like to be the child of celebrities.
The phrase nepotism baby -- nepo baby for short -- has been used to attack people whose professional accomplishments are perceived by some to stem from family connections rather than talent alone. In his videos, Mr. Robbins appears to lampoon the concept of being the pampered, freeloading son of Hollywood royalty, but also embraces it.
As Mr. Robbins put it in a phone interview, he is playing a character that amounts to "the worst version of me that could have ever happened."
He added of his alter ego: "Here's this painfully out-of-touch, delusional person, who for all his advantages is the world's least successful nepo baby. I'm having fun completely satirizing my biggest insecurity."
Last week, Mr. Robbins added a guest star, posting a video in which he and Sasha Spielberg, the musician daughter of the director Steven Spielberg and the actress Kate Capshaw, try to make a film together.
"Sasha and I are fed up with the lie that nepo babies can't make art without help from our parents," Mr. Robbins says. Their brainstorm session, naturally, consists of recycled ideas from their parents' filmographies. And to avoid comparisons with her famous father, Ms. Spielberg adopts a pen name: S. Spielberg.
Mr. Robbins said the videos were inspired by a 2022 article in New York magazine about the nepo baby phenomenon that generated a wave of discourse about prominent celebrity children.
"When the article came out, I had this complicated emotional response -- this insecurity," said Mr. Robbins, who by then was already trying to make it as a filmmaker and had several shorts and a feature length movie, "VHYes," under his belt. "I didn't know how to represent how I felt about the topic," he added. "I thought, 'I'm going to lean into it."'
Like many broad satires, Mr. Robbins's nepo baby videos contain a grain of truth. They also press on a personal wound. He related a story about attending a fashion show in New York with Ms. Sarandon when he was a child. Backstage, a woman asked why a 10-year-old was there. The young Mr. Robbins pointed to his mother in explanation.
"The woman told me, 'You're either going to be incredible at this" -- meaning show business -- "or let everyone down,"' Mr. Robbins said. "That was something that I'll never forget."
Later, while promoting his 2016 short film "Hot Winter: A Film by Dick Pierre" at the Sundance Film Festival, Mr. Robbins discovered what the children of notable people soon learn when their own careers are discussed: "First question I was asked in every interview: 'How did your parents inspire this film?"'
That seems to have led him to the creation of another clip, in which Mr. Robbins travels in character to Huntington Beach, Calif., ("the epicenter of Hollywood," as he calls it) to meet with a talent manager.
"I think we need to capitalize on your mom a little more," the manager says. "What if we put your mom's name in your name?"
With that, his alter ego took on a new name: Jack Susan Sarandon Robbins.
Helping sell the gag are Mr. Robbins's famous parents, who appear in his videos from time to time, usually playing exasperated versions of themselves. For Mr. Robbins, collaborating with them has been one of the benefits of the project.
"To have a format where we get to play together as actors was something I never thought we'd get to experience, because I never wanted to be an actor," he said.
Another positive has been the freedom to control every aspect of a project.
"There's no holdups," he said. "There's no years and years of development to not make a pilot.
"The process of waiting to convince X, Y and Z to make something happen was really taking a toll on me."
Mr. Robbins said he has not heard from others of his ilk, Ms. Spielberg aside -- "There's no text thread" for nepo babies -- but the response on social media has been overwhelmingly positive and has raised his profile.
If some people don't realize he is playing a monstrous version of himself, that's OK.
"My favorite thing in life is to make people laugh," Mr. Robbins said. "If people are laughing, if people are having a great time with it, I don't care if 25 percent think it's real. I have no shame."
Photograph Jack Henry Robbins, above, on TikTok, and with his parents, Tim Robbins and Susan Sarandon, top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK KERN/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page ST8.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Actors; Video recordings; Celebrities; Motion picture festivals; Babies

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Spielberg, Steven (1946- ); Robbins, Tim; Sarandon, Susan

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/03/style/jack-robbins-nepo-baby-videos.html

Title: Sure, His Parents Have Long Coattails:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 8, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3101745768

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sure-his-parents-have-long-coattails/d ocview/3101745768/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Roller Skating First, Then a Pub Crawl: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Strauss, Alix

Publication info: Strauss, Alix. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/roller-skating-first-then-pub-crawl/docview/3071152368/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Lynn Bodnar Kelly, executive director of Bette Midler's New York Restoration Project, e-bikes through Brooklyn and roller skates to the beat of Beyoncé.
For the past four years, Lynn Bodnar Kelly has been the executive director of the New York Restoration Project, a nonprofit that Bette Midler founded in 1995 to help make clean, open, green spaces more accessible. The organization, which owns and operates 52 community gardens, also plants trees, renovates gardens and restores parks in communities.
"Everyone asks if I'm friends with Bette," said Ms. Bodnar Kelly, 51, who lives in a two-bedroom apartment in Gowanus, Brooklyn, with her Parisian boyfriend, Laurent Fanichet, 53. "She's the heart of the organization and checks in, but she has a thriving career. I'm checking in and meeting with gardeners, the staff, our communities and donors."
As a child growing up in Old Town on Staten Island, Ms. Bodnar Kelly would be sent to her family's backyard to pull weeds when she misbehaved. She said she "loathed" the experience but gained an appreciation for the work it took to maintain a garden.
"Now I'm fascinated by gardens and helping them thrive, and paying it forward for others who don't have backyards or access to nature," she said. "I've become a fighter for these places."
EARLY RISE I'm up at 7 a.m. I'm like my father, an earlier riser. It's a habit I can't break. I lounge around for several hours because this is my one day not to rush. I buy Starbucks dark roast ice coffee in a big bottle, add two cocktail-size ice cubes and add a splash of half and half. I get back into bed and get on the laptop. I'm a nerd, so I do the boring life things. First, I order from Fresh Direct. They have a great seltzer brand, Adirondack; I love their mandarin flavor.
Then it's clothing. Right now, I'm ordering new dresses for summer from J. Crew, Diane von Furstenberg and Boden, a British company. Laurent lives and works in New York and Paris, so he sleeps like a rock, mostly because his body never adjusts to the time zone. He's in a constant state of jet lag. I'm a local news junkie and watch Eyewitness News or News 4 New York. Once he's up, around 10, he'll make a Nespresso, and then we watch CBS or CNN.
TRAINING There's a gym in my building. I've been doing weight training with kettlebells because I'm determined to age gracefully. Part of that is staying strong. My trainer, Whitney Biaggi, whom I've been working with for the past four years, recently added jump rope to my routine, which is like being back in the St. Joseph Hill schoolyard on Staten Island.
NO BRUNCH I'm in the apartment by noon; Laurent is showered and dressed. I hate brunch, so I make eggs and toast. Laurent loves the burritos from Reyes, a bodega up the block that makes authentic Mexican food. They also serve two tacos for $ 6. I'll get another iced coffee while he gets something to eat.
WHEELIES If the weather is nice, we get e-bikes because they're fun, and go to Red Hook. I'm a roller disco fanatic. I got my first pair when I was 8. They were blue suede with three yellow stripes. I grew up next to a roller rink called Skate Odyssey. The place was pure magic. About 15 years ago, my friend Lola Star ran a pop-up roller rink in Coney Island -- now she runs Dreamland, a roller disco party in Prospect Park -- and I fell in love all over again with the music, the lights, the disco ball, the feeling of community with others who enjoy skating. The minute I hear the first beat of "Another One Bites the Dust," or anything by Chaka Khan, I'm up.
There's a multiuse schoolyard on Van Brunt and Wolcott Streets that's free to use. I bring a speaker and I've got 10-to-15 playlists, each with 100 to 200 songs, which I'm obsessive about editing. The music I play is about the r.p.m. and my mood. I listen to everything from Beyoncé to David Bowie, especially rap and house. I'm into freestyling -- going forwards, backwards and spinning. I practice because roller disco requires a lot of balance and technique. I go to parties hosted by BKLYN Skates, Roller Wave and Skaterobics. The skate community in New York is welcoming to all kinds of people. I love to wear themed outfits, but not when I practice. Sometimes I'll wear a big sequined flower in my hair, because you have to have sparkle.
PUB CRAWLS Sundays are a freewheel day of no plans, drinks and friends. By 2, we usually hit Sunny's, an old, longshoreman-type bar in Red Hook that was an active shipping waterfront. It's part dive bar, part art bar, with a wonderful cast of characters. They have a garden in the back, but we sit outside in the front. I love to people-watch. In the warm weather, it's a margarita on the rocks; in the cold weather, it's a hot toddy.
Brittiny Sessions and Steve Jacobs, Brooklyn buddies I used to work with, usually come and meet us. Then we hit San Pedro, another fantastic dive bar institution which is only a few blocks away, and order tacos or nachos. Everything is on the main drag, and we spend time decompressing with people I love.
OUTDOOR OYSTERS Around 4, we get new Citi Bikes and ride on a path along the waterfront and end up in Brooklyn Bridge Park. I love Pilot; it's a huge, restored, antique sailboat that's docked and has a seasonal bar and the best oysters. I hate Sunday reservation culture, so I generally don't make one and there are never any spots. Laurent works the charming French thing and manages to get us a spot most times.
GARDEN CHECKING We are back on bikes -- riding slowly and carefully now, and go through Cobble Hill, Carroll Gardens and to Gowanus, where I like to check in on a N.Y.R.P. community pocket garden, Gil Hodges, on Carroll Street. It's a sweet, charming space in the midst of a neighborhood that's changing rapidly.
TV TIME We're home for "60 Minutes," which is on at 7. Or it's Netflix. I shower and put on pajamas. Surprisingly, Target has the softest cotton ones called Stars Above. Then we find something in French because I have a French class on Monday nights and I like to say what I watched. We just watched "Fiasco," a French comedy that was hysterical. We also watch French reality shows, which are easier to understand.
PAUSE FOR COOKING Laurent loves to cook. We usually make some kind of vegetable chicken stir fry or braised chicken thighs in mushroom and cream sauce. He's always adding more butter or cream than I want because he's French, but his food is so good.
EXHAUSTION Regardless if Laurent's here or not, I'm in bed and knocked out by 10. On my phone, I look at something on TikTok that's about French language and traveling, or maybe I'll text with some girlfriends. Eventually I stop fighting sleep and zonk out.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIMI D'AUTREMONT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page MB2.

Subject: Gardens & gardening; Electric bicycles; Weightlifting

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Midler, Bette

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/22/nyregion/new-york-restoration-project-lynn-bodnar-kelly.html

Title: Roller Skating First, Then a Pub Crawl:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 23, 2024

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3071152368

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/roller-skating-first-then-pub-crawl/docview/3071152368/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

This Matchmaker Also Manufactures Jokes: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Oosterhoff, Inge

Publication info: Oosterhoff, Inge. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-matchmaker-also-manufactures-jokes/docview/3042293480/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Stef Dag, host of "Hot & Single," goes cafe-hopping with friends, boxes in the park and gets ready for a comedy set at The Stand.
Stef Dag, a 28-year-old comedian, is slightly cynical but also hopeful about finding love in New York.
"There are actually a lot of people out there who are cool and really want to find a connection, but just can't seem to find it," she said.
As the creator and host of the digital dating show "Hot & Single" -- whose tagline is "the show where we find out if the problem is you" -- Ms. Dag has tried to help others find that connection while turning the mirror on New York's dysfunctional dating scene.
That has meant conversations with singles who still live with their exes, regular sperm donors who just want a sweet man to love-bomb, and polyamorous daters whose ideal partner will sit at home while they go out and see other people.
In two-minute videos posted to the show's Instagram and TikTok accounts, which collectively have nearly 400,000 followers, Ms. Dag facetiously interviews local singletons about their biggest dating failures, quirks, kinks and toxic traits. She also recently started a weekly podcast.
Born and raised in New Jersey, Ms. Dag graduated from New York University in 2017 with what she describes as "a misguided dream that I was going to change the world with political satire." Instead, she went viral interviewing her male friends about female anatomy on TikTok, and launched "Hot & Single" on Valentine's Day last year.
Ms. Dag, who is a regular host and comedian at The Stand in Gramercy Park, is in a long-distance relationship with Raza Jafri, a comedian in Texas, and lives in a two-bedroom apartment in the Bushwick area of Brooklyn with her friend Sofia Alvarez.
NO PHONE (KIND OF) I probably wake up around 9 a.m. I'm trying not to, but I often check my phone first and scroll Instagram. Then I'll be like, "We're going to do something good for your brain now," and I do meditation or breathwork. There's this guy called Joe Dispenza who does meditations and puts them on YouTube. I'll pick one that's like 10 or 20 minutes and I'll lay in bed and do that, which is also kind of an excuse just to stay in bed longer.
SKIN CARE I'll get up and go to the bathroom to do my skin care routine. I'm pretty militant about it, but I'm constantly switching out the products I use depending on who is giving me free stuff. Brands have just sent me stuff in the past, or they reach out and send me things to try. I share everything with my roommate. We just got an app where you scan a product and it tells you how bad it is on a scale of zero to 100. Turns out every product is bad for you, so we are kind of readjusting right now.
MANIFESTING Manifesting is big for me. I try to make it part of my morning practice, or I bring my journal to a coffee shop and write things down. I also have sticky notes on my wall of things that I want to happen, and yes, they do come true. Like, two years ago, I wrote down that I wanted a feature in Nylon magazine, get an agent, pitch a TV show with my roommate. That all happened. On my list now is a comedy special with a major streaming service, and to write a memoir.
CONCOCTIONS Before I have coffee, I drink Athletic Greens, which is a green powder. I usually chug that over the sink, because it's disgusting. Then I will make my first coffee of the day. I have a Nespresso machine, which is like my baby. I'll do a double shot and froth some oat milk. I've been doing bulletproof coffee lately, so I'll melt some butter in it as well, and I put raw cacao in it.
DEAD FUNNY I'll take my coffee to go and walk around my neighborhood. Depending on what I'm going through that day, I'll either listen to Oprah's Super Soul conversations, or I'll kind of walk around and practice new jokes out loud. There's a cemetery nearby that I like to walk through while I work out new material. Sometimes it's randomly closed, so I'll go to Irving Square Park or just walk all over Bushwick. I have these Bluetooth headphones that I put on. Sometimes, if I pass a person, I'll be like, "What'd you say?" to pretend I'm on the phone and not just talking to myself.
BOX AND POLE For working out, I will go to McCarren Park with my roommate to do boxing with our boxing instructor. I also recently started taking pole dancing classes, which is the hardest thing I've ever done in my life. I thought that I was going to get good really fast, but it actually seems like it'll be years until I'll be decent. I started in January and immediately installed a pole in the middle of my kitchen. My roommate came home after being gone for a month and was like, "What did you do?" If I try to do anything on it, I hit my fridge and clear the dishes off the countertops, but I love it.
COFFEE AND FRENCH MEN After my workout, I come home for a shower and go to the coffee shop near my apartment, Father Knows Best, to do work. I will get a coffee cortado and order their mushroom hash.
Sometimes I'll go to the Roxy Hotel instead. They have this area that you can sit in if you're not staying at the hotel. It's very sexy and there's always French men, which I like looking at, but it's also very distracting. I'm very scatterbrained, so I'll have like three tabs open of things I'm working on. One is usually jokes. I free-write for 10 or 20 minutes and see what works. Best-case scenario is when I work on a joke and then try it out that night at the comedy club. I'll also edit comedy clips for my own social media.
CASTING SINGLES I try to contain work for "Hot & Single" to Monday through Friday, but that rarely happens, so I'll go through submissions and pick people that I'm shooting with that week. I have a Google form that people can use, but I also sift through my DMs, where there's people asking me to be on it. It's so much more work for me and I should just stick with the form, but I'm curious about what kind of weird things I'll see in my DMs. I always check people's Instagram to make sure they're not creeps. The show is obviously called "Hot & Single," but being single is the only hard requirement. To me, being hot just means there's something interesting about you.
EUROPEAN WALK When I feel good about the amount of work I've done, I go into the city to meet up with friends. I like this cafe called Fanelli that's in the Washington Square Park area and I'm a member at Soho House, but we usually just end up meandering the Lower East Side and Little Italy, pretending we're in Europe. My mom is from Bosnia, and she and her friends would spend the summer just going from cafe to cafe for hours, getting cake and a coffee at each place. That is my ideal way to spend time with my friends. Or if my boyfriend's in town, I'll do that with him.
STAND-UP If I have a show at 7 p.m., I'll get to The Stand around 6:45. I usually order food there because I get a discount. I get their chicken Caesar salad or the steak. Upstairs there's a table that all the comedians sit at, so I'll be hosting or doing a spot and just eat throughout the show. I don't drink on days that I'm doing comedy, so I'll have a seltzer with bitters, or a black coffee. I'm always there for at least three hours. I'll watch some other sets, see a friend or sometimes they give me a guest spot.
INSOMNIA When I get home, I put on my pajamas, wash my face, do my nighttime skin care routine, then stretch in my living room or do some pole exercises while I'm watching TV. Right now I'm watching "Veep," or I'll put on "Seinfeld" for the 1,000th time. I try to get to bed by 11 or 12. I have pretty bad insomnia, so I'll lie awake for several hours. To be fair, I've also had at least five or six coffees throughout the day, which doesn't help. My boyfriend usually FaceTimes me when he gets home and we fall asleep on the phone together, which is slightly humiliating, or maybe it's cute. I guess both.
Sunday Routine readers can follow Stef Dag on Instagram @stefdagz and on TikTok @stefdag.
Sunday Routine readers can follow Stef Dag on Instagram @stefdagz and on TikTok @stefdag.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEXI PARRA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page MB2.

Subject: Comedians; Insomnia; Jokes; Comedies; Coffee; Personal relationships; Skin care; Social networks; Coffeehouses

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Coffeehouses

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/20/nyregion/stef-dag-hot-and-single-show.html

Title: This Matchmaker Also Manufactures Jokes:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 21, 2024

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Ne wspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3042293480

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-matchmaker-also-manufactures-jokes/docview/3042293480/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Getting a Very Early Start on Work: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Strauss, Alix

Publication info: Strauss, Alix. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/getting-very-early-start-on-work/docview/2924600461/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Shannan Ferry, who co-anchors "Weekends on 1" for NY1, wakes up in the middle of the night to head to work, then spends her day on dates or with friends.
"I'm more of a morning than a night person," Shannan Ferry said.
That's lucky for her, since she has been getting up at 1:47 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday for the past two years.
"The early hours work against your body clock, but I've trained mine to it," Ms. Ferry, 31, added. "When people are waking up, I've lived most of my whole day."
Ms. Ferry, who co-anchors "Weekends on 1" with Rocco Vertuccio for NY1, said her arrival at the studio, in Chelsea Market, is so early on Sundays that the city is still buzzing with Saturday night party people.
"They stumble out of bars and restaurants," she said.
Ms. Ferry, who grew up in the Little Neck neighborhood of Queens, started at the news station in 2012 with an internship, which turned into a part-time on-air reporting gig in 2014. She became full-time a year later. In November 2021, the station, part of Spectrum News, launched the weekend show.
"I knew doing news was a crazy, unobtainable concept," Ms. Ferry said, "but that motivated me more. I had something to prove. I'm now used to the routine."
She has lived in a studio apartment in the East 20s in Manhattan since December 2020 -- and has yet to purchase blackout shades.
BEYOND EARLY RISE My alarm goes off at 1:47 a.m. It's a random number that I did once, and now it just shows up in my alarm system. I need a few snoozes, so I don't get up until 2:00; past that I'm in danger. I check my phone: First it's NY1 Webex, our chat app, to see the overnight news and the internal stream of news updates. Then it's Instagram and X.
I don't lay out my clothing the night before -- which I should, because it would save time and be good for my anxiety -- but I don't know what I'm going to feel like until that day. I order five dresses every week from Rent the Runway. My news dress look is usually A-line, long sleeves, past the knees and solid colors, as prints don't look good on TV. I like black, but it's not the most cheerful, so I switch that up with colors. The joke in the office is anytime I wear red, breaking news happens. One time it was the train derailment that happened in Coney Island.
ARRIVALS I'm in an Uber around 2:30 a.m. I drop my stuff at my desk and meet Rocco at the shared desk area. He's been here for the last 15 to 30 minutes making coffee and seeing if the newspapers arrived. We have an old school percolator for the weekend show. We love Lavazza coffee, which I take with cream and one sugar. Our producer is here, too, and we spend the next 60 to 90 minutes going through the papers -- The Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Daily News and The Post -- for our segment, In the Papers.
We write and edit copy as we look to see what stands out: major news stories and quirky, fun stories that catch our eye, which are usually something that's only in New York, like people getting married in their apartments. Pieces like that are good for commentary or conversation. It's something light to end on.
VISUAL PREPPING I'm in the makeup chair by 4:30 a.m. I usually do my own makeup on the weekends. Right now I'm using Nars and IT Cosmetics for foundations, Tarte concealer and Roxanne Rizzo's bronzing mist, which is a game changer. It gives you a glow and smells like a vacation, like the beach.
I grab my earpiece from my desk, plug into our mic and start taping around 5:20 a.m.
ROLLING "Weekends on 1" is a mix of live and pretaped segments. We prepare eight weather updates with the meteorologist Michael Autovino. We do news stories of the day and pre-canned reporter pieces we taped.
By 7:45 a.m. we tape guest segments -- newsmakers, celebrities, politicians and authors. We also go to a correspondent who is in the field. Once we tape something, most segments air minutes later or that same day.
QUICK BREAK When we break at 8:30 a.m., Rocco and I usually go downstairs. I get a spinach egg frittata sandwich from Amy's Bread or yogurt with fruit from the Manhattan Fruit Market. Sometimes I go just full throttle, and I get a bagel.
By 9 a.m. we're back to prepping news segments and updating old ones from earlier. We might have a fresh reporter and new weather update.
SPOTTING Rocco and I leave the office by 11 a.m. and debrief on the day. When we walk together, that's usually when people spot us. They say hi, or "We were just watching you this morning." It's nice that people value what we do and rely on us to get their day started. Rocco takes the F train at Sixth Avenue to Long Island City, and I take a workout class. I go to different places -- CycleBar, Rumble, Sweat440 -- because it's a timing issue rather than a class.
TRADER JOE'S On the way home I grab groceries at the Trader Joe's on Sixth Ave. and 21st Street. I buy hydrangeas and smoothie basics, precooked chicken and anything I can make for salads or sandwiches. I'll stop at Citizens Of Gramercy for another coffee because they make the best oat milk iced latte. Their secret is their ice ratio, plus their ice is chunkier than most places. I recently got a Nespresso machine, as I'm trying to be financially responsible, and I might try to copy what they make at home instead.
NO NAPPING I'll call my parents, who I'm attached to. I've been texting my mom -- almost to a fault -- a stream of consciousness all day. I make a smoothie with spinach, mango, pineapple, banana and almond milk, and throw a load of laundry in if I'm feeling ambitious because I've learned not to nap, even though there's always the temptation. If you want to live a somewhat normal life, you have to push yourself not to, or the day is shot.
A DATE OR FRIENDS Sometimes I do a date in the afternoon; I'm single. Someone has either fixed me up or I'll meet someone on a dating app like Raya, Hinge or Bumble. I always have my finger hovering over the delete button because dating in New York can be hard. Usually, we meet in Gramercy or the East Village. Or I meet media friends for a late lunch or early dinner at L'Express, Ruby's or KazuNori. We all have these weird crazy hours. Some of us met in the field as reporters because we were covering the same stories and have remained close.
HOME By 6 p.m. my battery is low. I shower and watch TV in bed. I'm all about "Suits" -- everyone is rewatching it, so I'm watching for the first time. I'm also a fan of "Schitt's Creek," "30 Rock" and "The Mindy Project." I don't have to think with these shows; they help me slow down. Sometimes Alexa plays some sleep sounds, like rainstorm, if the TV fails. I set the alarm for 1:47 a.m., and I'm asleep by 8:30 p.m.
Sunday Routine readers can follow Shannan Ferry @shannanferry on X and Instagram .
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMMA ROSE MILLIGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page MB2.

Subject: Coffee

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/10/nyregion/shannan-ferry-news-anchor-ny1.html

Title: Getting a Very Early Start on Work:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 11, 2024

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2924600461

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/getting-very-early-start-on-work/docview/2924600461/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

International Journey Strengthens a Family's Bond: [Style Desk]

Author: Yoon, Susan

Publication info: Yoon, Susan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/international-journey-strengthens-familys-bond/docview/2913829440/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Korea was my parents' country. They wouldn't need me there as they did in Canada ... right?
I was sitting in between my parents on a 15-hour direct flight from Toronto to Seoul.
I was going to Seoul to work on a book project. My Airbnb had enough room for us all. So when my parents brought it up as a half-joke that they would come, too, I didn't think it was unreasonable. Until the trip neared, that is. Seven weeks? Together?
"I'm nervous about going with my parents," I said repeatedly to my friends. "Manage their expectations," they advised me.
"Don't forget I'm going to work," I told my parents.
"Oh don't worry," my father said. "We're going to do our own thing."
"You think we want to spend our whole time with you?" my mother added, laughing.
That was the one thing that put me at ease: our shared understanding that in Korea, my parents could be as independent as they wanted, without any language or cultural barriers.
Korea was their country. They wouldn't need me there as they did in Canada.
I was 10 when we immigrated. Immigrant children know that the real culture shock in a new country is the way your parents come to depend on you to navigate the world that once belonged to them. My siblings and I had no choice but to embrace the change: We learned a new language, started to eat a lot of cheese and got new English names.
As the plane began to accelerate down the runway, my father smiled widely. "Wow, this is it!" he said. "We're going to Korea." They had been just a few years earlier, but I hadn't been back in more than 25 years.
We slept, hunched over our economy seat trays. When we landed, it was pouring rain.
In the haze of jet lag the next morning, my mother announced that the first thing they wanted to do was visit my paternal grandma's grave. We had talked about visiting a few relatives, but going to Grandma's grave had never come up, and it irked me. It was starting: family obligations usurping my time.
"Let's go and say hello," my father said.
"You guys go," I said. "I don't need to go."
The first week was rough. We were upside down with the time change, and I was annoyed by their constant parenting. But soon we settled into a routine, spending the day separately and reuniting for dinner.
During one of those dinners, my parents let it slip that they didn't know how to navigate Seoul's massive transportation system. I didn't understand. If they could speak and read Korean, why couldn't they figure it out?
I downloaded Naver Map on my father's phone. "These are all your options for getting there," I said. "See?"
"OK, I got it," my father said.
It wasn't until a few days later that I discovered he hadn't gotten it, that he and my mother had been navigating the city on archival memory -- taking the bus toward directions and not actual locations.
I showed my father again. "This dot is you, and this is where you're going. If you turn, the dot turns with you."
The next morning I saw him in the small street outside our Airbnb with his phone nestled in his hand, practicing.
I updated my friends through Instagram stories. "How is it being among your people?" one friend messaged me. "LOL, are these my people?" I replied, the "LOL" hiding my irritation. Korea was my parents' country, and Koreans their people. But the question lingered. Who were my people?
Two weeks into the trip, my mother declared that they were going to Grandma's grave the next day. "Without you," she said. I hadn't realized they hadn't gone yet. Looking forward to a day alone at the house, I told them that it was a great idea.
But the next day they decided not to go. Grandma's grave is in Paju, near the North Korean border, and the bus route was too complicated. "Maybe it's OK not to go this time," my mother told my father at breakfast. "She'll understand." My father nodded. I drank my Nespresso, saying nothing.
While my father showered, my mother took me aside. "He's not going to tell you, but your dad would really like it if you came to Grandma's grave."
"Why?" I asked. "Remember we said we were going to do our own things?"
"He wants to show her how well you grew up. He wants to show you off."
I laughed, but I was deeply moved. I decided to ditch my day of work and accompany them.
"We need flowers," my father said as we approached the graveyard. We assumed there would be a flower vendor near the entrance.
There wasn't.
I gathered some brightly colored wildflowers from the perimeter of the parking lot and tied them together with a long piece of grass. It reminded me of my sister and the clover necklaces we used to make as children.
My parents got busy weeding around the granite headstone, which had a combination of Hangul and Hanja, on the front and the back. "Your name is on the back," my father said. "See here?" I looked, and there was my Korean name carved beside those of my siblings and cousins. It felt odd to see our names on the headstone -- all of us, the living and dead, connected.
"Take a picture," my father said as he and my mother flanked the grave. Looking at my parents' faces through the lens of my iPhone, I felt a sudden wave of tenderness.
In the seven weeks we were in Korea, my parents and I managed to see all of our relatives, even my uncle in Chuncheon, the last city we lived in before we came to Canada. My uncle drove us down memory lane to our old apartment. It looked abandoned. My father and I walked quickly through the apartment complex, trying to reconcile our memory of the past with the present.
Back in Seoul, my mother noted that the apartment in Chuncheon was the last place Grandma lived. I had forgotten, but as soon as she said it, I remembered: Grandma's room was right next to the entrance. Every time I walked in after school, she would knock from the inside with her cane and ask, "Who is it?"
"It's Sun-kyeong," I would say. I'd open the door and see her sitting on the floor, her cane directing me to some kind of task. "Go pick the dandelion leaves from outside," she said once, pointing to the window. I remembered the day I came home from school and no one knocked and asked who I was. And through the half opened door, I saw that her room was empty.
Before we knew it, the trip was over. Back home in Toronto, my friends asked how Korea was. "Amazing," I answered each time. If they asked why, I didn't quite know how to explain it.
"Was the food good?" they asked. But it wasn't that.
"Did you get work done?" they wondered. It wasn't that either.
I didn't know how to tell them that the trip was amazing because of my mother and father. That I realized how I was a part of them, and they were a part of me. That we don't belong to languages or countries. That one day when my father and I took a cab home from a baseball game, I heard the driver say to him, "Oh, you're a foreigner?" And my father responded, "Yes, from Canada." And I couldn't unhear it.
I didn't know how to tell my friends that when we are in Canada, we are from Korea, and when we are in Korea, we are from Canada. We are always from somewhere else.
One day near the end of our trip, my parents and I went to Insadong and my father split off to do his own thing. I texted him the location where he should meet me and my mother. Then, I called him, just to make sure.
"Do you know how to get here?" I asked.
"Yes," he said. "Don't worry."
When he met us exactly where he was supposed to, I was so proud that I had to look away.
My Grandma died only four months before we moved to Canada. We had been accepted for permanent residency but she was too frail to make the trip. My parents didn't know what to do and didn't tell her that we were moving.
But she knew.
"Tell your parents, don't forget to take me," she told me and my siblings over and over. "Don't forget to take me."
I hope she knows that I won't forget. That we did take her. That maybe all we have is each other.
Susan Yoon is a children's book writer and author of "Waiting for Tomorrow." She lives in Toronto.
Modern Love can be reached at modernlove@nytimes.com.
To find previous Modern Love essays, Tiny Love Stories and podcast episodes, visit our archive.
Want more from Modern Love? Watch the TV series; sign up for the newsletter; or listen to the podcast on iTunes, Spotify or Google Play. We also have swag at the NYT Store and two books, "Modern Love: True Stories of Love, Loss, and Redemption" and "Tiny Love Stories: True Tales of Love in 100 Words or Less."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST5.

Subject: Parents & parenting; Families & family life; Siblings; Books

Location: Canada

Company / organization: Name: Airbnb; NAICS: 561599

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/12/style/modern-love-korea-sharing-airbnb-with-parents.html

Title: International Journey Strengthens a Family's Bond:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 14, 2024

column: Modern Love

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2913829440

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/international-journey-strengthens-familys-bond/docview/2913829440/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Living the Dream' and Making a Statement: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Strauss, Alix

Publication info: Strauss, Alix. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/living-dream-making-statement/docview/2888773548/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Alan van Capelle said he was "living the dream" with his husband and two children, a life he once thought was out of reach for someone like him.
Alan van Capelle spends a lot of time trying to foster equality and a sense of belonging as the executive director of Friends of the High Line, the nonprofit that oversees the park's operations.
"There are very few places in the city where everyone can be surrounded by museum quality art, botanical gardens and performance space, regardless of their economic means," said Mr. van Capelle, 48, who is responsible for raising $ 20 million annually so that more than seven million people can visit the 1 ½ mile-long West Side public park each year, free of charge.
He grew up on Commack, Long Island, and is now living a life he never thought possible as a Jewish, biracial, gay man. "You either died early of AIDS or were alone, abandoned by family," he said. "I'm living the dream because I never knew I could have a husband and two kids."
Mr. van Capelle was one of the lead architects of the marriage equality campaign in New York, and is married to Matthew Morningstar, 48, an executive vice president at LPL Financial, a financial services firm in Manhattan. They live in a two-bedroom on the Lower East Side with their sons Patrick, 9, and Ethan, 12, whom they adopted at birth.
Rise and Snooze I'm an anxious person and a creature of order. I feel life favors the prepared. During the week I'm up at 5:45 a.m., so I give myself an extra 30 minutes on Sundays to sleep, which is a treat. Matt snuggles me for eight minutes until the snooze alarm on my iPhone goes off. Every morning I look at Matt, then at the sky and say, "Amen."
Coffee, iPads, Cheerios Matt stays in bed. I get the papers -- The New York Times, The Daily News and The Wall Street Journal, which are at our front door. Then I down a double shot of Paris Espresso made on our Nespresso. The kids get up at around 7:30. There are hugs and requests to use their iPads since they don't use them during the week. We start with Cheerios peppered with chocolate chips, or I'll pick up pastries or scones from Ost Cafe. Matt wakes up at 7:45 or 8. I'll make him a coffee.
Worship and Waffles By 8:30 we're in our white Chevy Traverse, and we head to St. Francis Xavier, our bi-denominational church on 16th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues. I'm Jewish; Matt was raised Catholic. One of my favorite moments is the statement we make walking in together as a gay family so people can't deny we exist.
We haven't had a real breakfast, so we go to the Hollywood Diner. It's super convenient because it's across the street. Sometimes our niece or friends join. The boys have waffles or pancakes. Matt has a healthy egg white thing. I vacillate with an egg white, spinach and mushroom omelet, or turkey burger.
Hot Pink Inspiration If we're not running errands for the kids -- Paragon Sports or arts supplies at Blick -- we do a cultural activity, the Cloisters or MET, but usually it's the Whitney. I love contemporary art. My shoulders come down when I'm there. I live for the moment when I look at art and feel something. It's like a drug. I love watching my kids look at art, which prompts and inspires good conversations. "What's the girl in the picture thinking?" "What's her relationship to the other person in the picture?"
We might get a snack for the kids and a glass of wine for us. Then we hit the High Line. I'm currently in love with Swiss born artist Pamela Rosenkranz's "Old Tree," which we just unveiled. It's hot pink and breathtaking.
Reading, Then Games We're home by 3. I'll do laundry. Matt goes online. The kids like comic books and graphic novels. Ethan is reading the "Star Wars: Dark Droids" series and Patrick is into the Marvel Comics series. Since Ethan doesn't have a soccer game or track meet right now, Matt will take him to Luther Gulick Park, which is around the corner, to play basketball. Patrick and I might play Uno, Rummikub or Spinners, which is a tile game. I wasn't a game person growing up, but Matt converted me.
Candlelight Dinner Around 6 we order steamed pork dumplings, chicken and broccoli, and an egg roll from Wa Lung Kitchen, our local Chinese restaurant. When one of us goes to pick up the food, we get Patrick -- who is allergic to peanuts -- pepperoni pizza from Alphonso's. We set the table kitchen and I light candles. We currently have 10 candles going. I'm a big fan of Pomegranate + Currant from Paddywax.
Drinks and Calendars After dinner, the boys take a bath or shower and put on their PJs. Matt and I make cocktails. It's ritualistic and needed. Right now we're drinking Manhattans, perfect, equal parts of iced cold sweet and dry vermouth, with a Luxardo cherry. I'm a lot easier with one because we're going to do our "calendaring" conversation. There's negotiating and horse trading as we go through our schedule -- when each of us is traveling, who has a work event, what projects or activities do the kids have, do we need an extra sitter. We are more Lucy and Ethel in the chocolate factory as we try to organize the next two weeks.
The Shows At 8 we pause and watch TV with the kids. Right now it's "Modern Family" reruns. Then the kids say their prayers, which we do together. Once they're in bed, Matt and I finish calendaring. Then we watch TV. We finished the Julia Child mini-series on Netflix, which was great, and we're almost done with "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel."
Books and a Puzzle By 10:00 I say good night to Matt, who is still watching TV. I take out the kids' clothing for Monday so it's ready for them, make sure the school iPads are charging and set the table for breakfast. I get in bed and pick up a book. I just finished "In Memoriam" by Alice Winn. It's spectacular. Now I'm reading "The Great Money Reset" by my friend Jill Schlesinger. Matt comes in with the paper. I get a second wind. He does The Times' crossword puzzle. He's the lead, but he asks me questions so I'm brought into that.
Good Luck, and Good Night By 11:00 it's lights out. There's more snuggling. Each night we have a ritual. I take his hand, which is on my head, and he taps my head five times, one for each of us and one for good luck. I'm not sure how it started or why, but I'm so grateful for having that, and him, and this life with our kids.
Sunday Routine readers can follow Alan van Capelle on Instagram @avancapelle .
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page MB2.

Subject: Books

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/11/nyregion/how-a-friend-of-the-high-line-spends-his-sundays.html

Title: 'Living the Dream' and Making a Statement:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 12, 2023

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2888773548

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/living-dream-making-statement/docview/2888773548/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Google Bard Is Still Erratic After a Boost: [Correction]

Author: Roose, Kevin

Publication info: Roose, Kevin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/google-bard-is-still-erratic-after-boost/docview/2866624841/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The chatbot now pulls information from a user's Gmail, Google Docs and Google Drive accounts. The feature leaves a lot to be desired.
This week, Bard -- Google's competitor to ChatGPT -- got an upgrade.
One interesting new feature, called Bard Extensions, allows the artificial intelligence chatbot to connect to a user's Gmail, Google Docs and Google Drive accounts.
(Google also gave Bard the ability to search YouTube, Google Maps and a few other Google services, and it introduced a tool that would let users fact-check Bard's responses. But I'm going to focus on the Gmail, Docs and Drive integrations, because the ability to ask an A.I. chatbot questions about your own data is the killer feature here.)
Bard Extensions is designed to address one of the most annoying problems with today's A.I. chatbots, which is that while they're great for writing poems or drafting business memos, they mostly exist in a vacuum. Chatbots can't see your calendar, peer into your email inbox or rifle through your online shopping history -- the kinds of information an A.I. assistant would need in order to give you the best possible help with your daily tasks.
Google is well positioned to close that gap. It already has billions of people's email inboxes, search histories, years' worth of their photos and videos, and detailed information about their online activity. Many people -- including me -- have most of their digital lives on Google's apps and could benefit from A.I. tools that allow them to use that data more easily.
I put the upgraded Bard through its paces on Tuesday, hoping to discover a powerful A.I. assistant with new and improved abilities.
What I found was a bit of a mess. In my testing, Bard succeeded at some simpler tasks, such as summarizing an email. But it also told me about emails that weren't in my inbox, gave me bad travel advice and fell flat on harder analytical tasks.
Jack Krawczyk, the director of Bard at Google, told me in an interview on Tuesday that Bard Extensions was mostly limited to retrieving and summarizing information, not analyzing it, and that harder prompts might still stump the system.
"Trial and error is still definitely required at this point," he said.
Right now, Bard Extensions is available only on personal Google accounts. Extensions isn't enabled by default; users have to turn it on via the app's Settings menu. And the feature works only in English for the time being.
Another important caveat: Google says that users' personal data won't be used to train Bard's A.I. model, or shown to the employees reviewing Bard's responses. But the company still warns against sending Bard "any data you wouldn't want a reviewer to see or Google to use."
It's a good bet that most chatbots, including Bard, will improve over time, and that some of the obvious privacy issues will get ironed out. Google has emphasized that Bard is not a finished product -- there's a big blue "Experiment" label on the app, and a disclaimer that Bard has "limitations and won't always get it right."
Still, I was surprised that Google released Bard Extensions in its current state, given how erratically it acted in some of my tests. And it suggests that the dream of an all-knowing A.I. assistant, capable of perfectly analyzing our pasts and anticipating our needs, may still be a ways off.
Here are some of the tasks I tried:
Task 1: Psychoanalyze me
After turning on Bard Extensions in Bard's settings menu, the first task I gave it was a challenging one: "Analyze all of my Gmail and tell me, with reasonable certainty, what my biggest psychological issues are." (What can I say? I like talking to chatbots about psychology.)
Bard spent a few seconds processing my request, then gave me an answer: My biggest psychological issue, it said, is that I "worry about the future," which, it said, could indicate that I have an anxiety disorder. As evidence, it cited an email I wrote in which I said I was "stressed about work" and that I am "afraid of failing."
I was skeptical, because I didn't remember writing anything like that. I asked Bard: When did I say I was afraid of failing?
"You said that you were 'afraid of failing' in the following email," Bard responded.
Subject: Book Review: Elon Musk
I'm reading a book about Elon Musk. It's fascinating, but it also makes me a little nervous. Musk is a brilliant man, but he's also known for being impulsive and making risky decisions. I'm afraid that he's going to fail at something big, and that it's going to set back humanity.
But I never sent an email like that. Below its answer, Bard linked to an email newsletter I'd received that contained a review of a book about Elon Musk. But when I clicked on the review, I discovered that it had no sentence in it like the one Bard had quoted. Bard had made up both the quote itself, and the fact that I'd written it.
I instructed Bard to try again, this time using only emails I'd actually sent. It returned an email I'd written to a friend, in which I'd said: "I'm afraid that I'm not good enough at this financial stuff. I'm not sure if I'm cut out to be a successful investor."
I remembered writing an email to that friend about investing. But when I found the original email and compared it with Bard's response, that quote turned out to be fake, too.
I knew I'd started off with a hard assignment. Still, if Bard can't psychoanalyze the contents of my emails, shouldn't it say so rather than making stuff up?
Mr. Krawczyk reiterated that it was still an experimental product.
"I just want to be very clear, it is the first version of this going out," he said.
Task 2: Be my travel agent
Bard is now connected to Google's suite of travel products, including Google Hotels and Google Flights. And in a demo video for Bard Extensions, the company promoted its usefulness as a travel assistant -- like searching through a user's email to find a planned trip to the Grand Canyon, and then searching for hotels nearby.
When I tried the same approach, the results were mixed.
I asked Bard to search my email inbox for information about a coming work trip to Europe, and look for train tickets that would get me from the airport to a business meeting in a nearby city on time.
Bard correctly retrieved the dates of my flight, but it got the departing airport wrong. Then, it showed me a list of other flights leaving from that airport on the same day.
Bard then recommended a train that would get me from the airport to my meeting on time. But when I checked the train company's official timetables, I found no such train existed.
Mr. Krawczyk said I very likely ran into a limitation with Google's travel-booking apps, which include data about flights and hotels but not European rail schedules, and that I would have had better luck if I'd asked for help booking a hotel at my destination.
"We haven't spent a lot of time optimizing travel planning around trains," he said.
Task 3: Wrangle my email
I am notoriously bad at email, and I hoped that with access to my personal Gmail account, Bard could help me declutter and organize my inbox.
Bard worked well on some simple tasks. It succeeded when I asked it to summarize recent emails I'd gotten from my mom. (Sorry, Mom! I read them, I promise!) It also responded well to prompts about emails on single subjects, such as "summarize recent emails I've gotten about A.I."
But when I asked it to perform more complicated tasks, it wobbled.
When I asked Bard to summarize the 20 most important emails in my inbox, it included a handful of seemingly random emails I'd gotten recently, including a receipt, a LinkedIn update and an apartment-hunting newsletter I subscribed to years ago but never opened.
When I instructed Bard to "pick five emails from the Primary tab of my Gmail, draft responses to those emails in my voice and show me the drafts," it instead pulled from my Promotions tab and drafted a very nice note to the Nespresso coffee company, thanking it for the offer of a 25 percent discount on a new espresso machine.
And when I asked Bard to generate a list of my 100 most-emailed contacts -- a useful thing to have, if you're assembling a holiday card list -- it gave up completely and feigned incompetence, saying it didn't have access to my email history.
Mr. Krawczyk said initial hiccups like these were expected. But he also reiterated that Bard would get better over time, and he predicted that A.I. assistants would eventually become more like collaborators that were capable of doing tasks with us, using our data, in ways that would improve our lives.
"We know it's not perfect, but it's super inspiring," he said.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Electronic mail systems; Travel; Chatbots; Airports; Hotels & motels

Business indexing term: Subject: Airports Hotels & motels

People: Musk, Elon

Title: Google Bard Is Still Erratic After a Boost:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 21, 2023

column: The Shift

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2866624841

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/google-bard-is-still-erratic-after-boost/docview/2866624841/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

French Union Demonstrations Over Pension Law Continue: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Breeden, Aurelien

Publication info: Breeden, Aurelien. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/french-union-demonstrations-over-pension-law/docview/2796748744/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Hundreds of thousands again took to the streets to rally against raising the retirement age, but there were signs that the demonstrations were losing some steam, at least for now.
French workers marched and went on strike around the country on Thursday for the 11th time in three months, as the stalemate between President Emmanuel Macron and labor unions endured even after his pension overhaul, which raised the legal age of retirement to 64 from 62, has become law.
About 570,000 protesters took to the streets of France, according to French authorities, with violent clashes in some places. Unions gave the much higher figure of 2 million.
It was a large number but nonetheless lower than in previous rounds of protests, a sign that a movement that has posed the greatest political threat to Mr. Macron's second term was losing some steam, at least for now.
Roughly 740,000 people marched around the country last week, and some of the biggest protest days of the past few months had attracted over 1 million people. The number of strikers in key sectors like transportation and education has also slowly declined.
France's national railway company said three out of four high-speed trains were running on Thursday, as well as one in two regional express trains, far better than on previous strike days; while traffic on the Paris transportation network was close to normal. The Education Ministry said that about 8 percent of teachers were on strike, far fewer than before.
But disruptions and small acts of protest, like brief traffic blockages, have not stopped, including on days without organized protests, and some strikes could pick up again. In Paris, where the streets are now clear of mounds of trash that had piled up during a weekslong garbage-collector walkout, one of the main unions is threatening a new strike next week.
Unions are also planning a new day of protests on the eve of a key ruling on the pension law by the Constitutional Council, a body that reviews legislation to ensure that it conforms to the Constitution. That ruling is expected next week.
The protests on Thursday came a day after a cordial but fruitless meeting -- the first since January -- between Prime Minister Élisabeth Borne and the heads of the main labor unions. The union representatives left after less than an hour and complained that they were not being heard.
"They are living in a parallel reality," Sophie Binet, the newly elected head of the Confédération Générale du Travail, France's second-largest labor union, told reporters at a march in Paris on Thursday.
Ms. Binet acknowledged that enthusiasm for the walkouts was waning in some areas, partly because of the financial burden for striking workers, but she said that the protests were a "long-distance race," not a sprint.
As long as the pension overhaul "is not withdrawn, the mobilization will continue in one form or another," she added.
On Wednesday, protesters briefly shut the Arc de Triomphe in Paris and unfurled a banner that read "No to 64!" from the top of the famous landmark. Electricity workers have continued making sporadic power cuts in official buildings, including at a local prefecture in Lyon on Thursday. Some universities are still being occupied by protesting students.
The chaotic unrest that followed Mr. Macron's decision to push the law through Parliament without a full vote has slightly subsided -- but not the persistent opposition to the pension overhaul and the anger against Mr. Macron, who is currently on a state visit to China but is closely following the turmoil back home.
While the protests around the country were mostly calm, they were also marred by now-familiar clashes and injuries, as a minority of protesters threw projectiles at riot police, who responded with tear gas and batons.
In Nancy, the door to a local French central bank office was set on fire. In Lyon, protesters looted a Nespresso store and tossed coffee capsules into the crowd.
In Paris, protesters lit bonfires and smashed in the windows of several bank branches. Some also targeted La Rotonde, the restaurant where Mr. Macron celebrated his 2017 electoral victory, pelting the establishment with rocks and bottles, and starting a small blaze on an awning that was quickly put out by firefighters.
France's interior minister said that over 150 officers had been injured during the protests, and over 100 people had been arrested.
Mr. Macron's opponents have warned that his insistence on pushing through the pension overhaul is creating a dangerous mix.
Recent polling has shown that voters would be more likely to support Marine Le Pen, the far-right leader and Mr. Macron's strongest rival in the past two French elections, and less likely to back Mr. Macron or his allies in a hypothetical election.
Laurent Berger, the leader of the Confédération Française Démocratique du Travail, France's largest labor union, told reporters at a protest in Paris that Mr. Macron's approach had led to increased mistrust toward the government, higher social tensions and more support for the far right.
"If those aren't all the ingredients of a democratic crisis, I don't know what is," Mr. Berger said.
Mr. Macron's government has argued that it followed the law at every step and that most opposition parties presented no realistic alternatives to ensure that the French pension system remains financially sustainable.
The government maintains that it wants to talk with the unions but has refused to discuss the age increase, while the unions insist that dropping the measure is the only way forward. Each side has accused the other of refusing to compromise.
"I understand that we have been unable to convince at this time, but it's work that must continue in the long term," Olivier Véran, spokesman for the French government, told France Inter radio.
"The far right is high in voting intentions," Mr. Véran acknowledged. But, he added: "Why? Because it says nothing, because it offers nothing, and as always it reaps the fruits of anger."
The new pension law will stand as is unless the Constitutional Council strikes down part or all of it. Legal experts are divided over a possible outcome.
The conflict between Mr. Macron and the opposition is now essentially in limbo, with all sides awaiting the council's ruling.
"The impasse" was the headline on the front page of Le Parisien, a French daily newspaper, on Thursday, while Olivier Baccuzat, deputy editor in chief of L'Opinion, another newspaper, wrote that the meeting between Ms. Borne and the unions "ended exactly as one might have feared: with nothing."
"And for good reason, each of the protagonists got exactly what they came for: nothing," he added in his editorial. "Or rather, little things that allow both sides to keep up appearances and to boast that they have not given up anything."
Photograph A banner in Nantes read, "Let's euthanize the reform, let's overshadow Jupiter," referring to the president. About 570,000 protesters filled France's streets on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOIC VENANCE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A8.

Subject: Councils; Strikes; Demonstrations & protests; Labor unions

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Labor unions

Location: France

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/06/world/europe/france-protests-pensions-macron.html

Title: French Union Demonstrations Over Pension Law Continue:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2796748744

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/french-union-demonstrations-over-pension-law/docview/2796748744/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Constant Movement, Fueled by Caffeine: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Strauss, Alix

Publication info: Strauss, Alix. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/constant-movement-fueled-caffeine/docview/2767531010/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Janie Deegan said she was 25 and homeless when she got sober. Soon after, she discovered baking.
"I was stuck in an overwhelming darkness with no hope or glimpse of the future," said Ms. Deegan, now 35, who is the founder of Janie's Life-Changing Baked Goods, which she started out of her home almost eight years ago. "Baking became this controlled artistic, meditative act of self-care," she said.
In 2021, she opened her first shop on Manhattan's Upper West Side. Last fall, she opened a second location in East Harlem. For both stores, she has "an open-door hiring policy for people recently out of prison or a shelter who want to work," she said. Janie's, which specializes in pie crust cookies, or mini pies with fruit fillings, produces about 1,500 cookies per day.
Ms. Deegan lives on the Upper West Side with her boyfriend Josh Raff, 37, who co-owns Five4Five Films, which teaches media skills to high school students.
ALL ABOUT COFFEE Sunday is the one day I don't set an alarm. I know people are at the bakery at 7 a.m., so from 7 to 9 I check my phone to make sure there aren't any issues while trying to fall back to sleep. I've transferred my alcoholism to workaholism and coffee. I have several different contraptions in my house, including a Nespresso and a drip, but Josh is an early riser, and on Sundays he brings me this amazing coffee from Peaky Barista. I'm usually a traditional coffee drinker, but he gets us a dirty chai latte or pumpkin spice latte.
QUEEN BEE I do Wordle and Spelling Bee. There's simplicity in this; it's like meditation. It focuses me, and it's gratifying if I get Queen Bee or solve Wordle in three words. These work well because I can't play another until the next day. When it's done, it's done.
MILEAGE For the past five years, I've been training for the New York City Marathon. I've done two so far. If I'm not training, I'll run four to six miles. I enter Central Park at 106th Street. I cheat a little, which helps me avoid Harlem Hill, which is extremely steep, and start at the top and run down and do the northern loop, down the east side, and end on 77th Street.
TREASURE HUNT I hit the Grand Bazaar on Columbus and do a quick walk-through, looking for cobalt-blue glass, which my grandmother loved. I inherited her collection, and I've expanded it to other colors. I look for glassware, pitchers, vases and medicine bottles from the 1800s. My father is a set designer and created these built-in shelves that go around the window, so now there are more than 100 pieces of glass displayed in a rainbow, which makes me sound like a grandma. I'm successful at finding them, but these can be really pricey, $ 400 or $ 500 for a four-inch medicine bottle, so I don't make a lot of purchases.
BAKERY VISIT I get a second coffee with almond or coconut milk at our bakery on 80th Street. We have two people on Sunday, instead of 10 or 12, so this is an opportunity to check in with them, and then see what needs to be done while it's calm. I still feel huge bursts of pride when I'm there.
STROLL, EAT I walk my way uptown on Broadway to meet Josh at either Community, a restaurant that makes decadent biscuits and gravy, or Le Monde, which make great French omelets. Then I have a third coffee. If we want something to go, we hit Milano Market, a fancy Italian deli that has crazy low prices for salads and sandwiches and is a Columbia University institution.
ODDS, ENDS I mill around and check emails -- we do a lot of e-commerce business now -- and plan for the week ahead while Josh, who is a big phone person, makes calls or does the laundry. I might visit our other store to see how they're doing.
SAME LANGUAGE At 4 or 5 I meet with a sober friend and order an almond matcha tea latte or a fourth coffee at PlantShed or Starbucks. We might walk in the park if it's nice. Maintenance is life for me. I wish I could put being sober on a résumé because it's my biggest achievement, so I'm always connecting with others in the program. All week I'm with people who don't speak my language, and this is my chance to have someone who does. It's comforting and reminds me I'm not alone.
COMMUNITY I go to a Sunday meeting on the West Side from 7 to 8. I get there early to set up. It's a community of people I wouldn't necessarily meet in my day-to-day life. I spent years trying to get sober and couldn't. I tried rehab, therapy, different treatments. People thought I'd die of alcoholism.
CHANGES I have a squad of six or so people from the program who have become my best friends. Covid did many different things to relationships, and to me. I was an Irish Catholic girl who thought stoicism was sexy and vulnerability wasn't. Covid chipped away at that. I softened to a degree I didn't think was possible. I canceled a wedding. I ended a relationship. I met someone new. But I held onto these friends and our relationships became more poignant.
OUTING We eat at Bodrum, a Turkish Mediterranean place. I'm not a great planner, so if I didn't make a reservation and they can't seat our group, we go to City Diner. Once we're seated, it's a madness of us trying to catch up and everyone is talking over each other in a loving way. We want to know who is dating whom, and what are we doing this summer, and who is getting married next.
WATCHING Josh has already eaten by the time I'm home, which is sometime between 9:30 and 10. Usually we watch what's on HBO. We just finished "The White Lotus," so we're at a loss and are looking for a new show. We also recently watched "Only Murders in the Building."
WRITING Josh goes to bed at 11. I love my alone time, when I can sit on the couch working until 1 a.m. I have to write things down for them to exist. I journal, jot down ideas, I might come up with a new idea for a cookie. Sometimes it's paperwork and emails I've put off. Then I crawl into bed.
Sunday Routine readers can follow Janie Deegan on Instagram @janiedbakes.
Sunday Routine readers can follow Janie Deegan on Instagram @janiedbakes.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNA WATTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page MB2.

Subject: Bakeries; Coffee; Alcoholism

Business indexing term: Subject: Bakeries

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/21/nyregion/janie-deegan-life-changed-baked-goods.html

Title: Constant Movement, Fueled by Caffeine:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: Ne w York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767531010

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/constant-movement-fueled-caffeine/docview/2767531010/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions