____________________________________________________________

Could This Liberal 20-Year-Old Be a Democrat Bro Whisperer?: [Style Desk]

Author: Holtermann, Callie

Publication info: Holtermann, Callie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/could-this-liberal-20-year-old-be-democrat-bro/docview/3149804163/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Dean Withers argues online with right-wing stars like Charlie Kirk and Ben Shapiro. His goal? To reach their young, male followers.
In a YouTube video that was uploaded about a month before the election, a young, blond man in baggy jeans and a graphic T-shirt sits alone at the center of a circle of folding chairs.
One by one, people approach him to debate issues like abortion, inflation and whether former President Donald J. Trump's policies would benefit the middle class. The video, titled "Can 1 Woke Teen Survive 20 Trump Supporters?," has been viewed more than 14 million times since it was posted by the debate-centric media company Jubilee.
The "woke teen" in question is Dean Withers, a now-20-year-old liberal content creator who lives in Colorado. Mr. Withers has been debating politics online since 2022 but rapidly gained traction in the final stretch of an election in which Republicans improved their performance with young men.
Gen Z men have reported feeling economically dissatisfied and socially left behind, frustrations that President-elect Trump sought to channel with the help of an online "manosphere" of podcasters and influencers. In the aftermath of an election in which many Democrats believe they were outflanked online, some are scrambling to find bro whisperers of their own.
They are eyeing people like Mr. Withers, who attended a holiday reception at the White House on Tuesday. ("Off to meet mr joe," he wrote on his Instagram story beforehand.)
He is part of an ecosystem of left-leaning influencers including Hasan Piker, the 33-year-old progressive commentator who streams for hours a day on Twitch. An even younger group of men including Harry Sisson, Mr. Withers and a friend known online simply as Parker each have more than a million followers on TikTok, where they brawl with supporters of Mr. Trump during combative, unpredictable livestreams that Mr. Withers compared to U.F.C. matches.
Can their fluency in the language of the manosphere be used to encourage young men to consider liberal viewpoints instead of conservative ones? Mr. Withers thinks so.
"I used to be a very conservative young white guy who was captured by people like Andrew Tate or Joe Rogan," he said in a recent phone interview. "Now I found my nook and cranny on the internet where I can help be the opposing force to that."
Mr. Withers streams for about five hours a day on TikTok, where he has more than two million followers. A vocal supporter of Vice President Kamala Harris, he spent the months leading up to the election sparring eagerly with right-wing figures whom many in the left-wing establishment would rather not touch, including the conservative activist Charlie Kirk, the conservative commentator Ben Shapiro and the prominent white supremacist Nick Fuentes.
There, his approach diverges from that of an earlier generation of progressive commentators: It is hard to imagine the four millennial men who host "Pod Save America" sitting down with Mr. Fuentes, a font of misogyny, racism and antisemitism. Mr. Withers gets comments asking whether what can seem like a potentially dangerous, shock-jock approach is the wisest strategy for changing young minds.
But Mr. Withers said he believes such debates are worthwhile because they can help introduce progressive ideas into right-wing echo chambers.
"Trump won this election because the right has now dominated the culture war with younger men," Mr. Withers said. He continued: "We just need to be able to convince a younger generation of white guys that people who live in our society that aren't white guys face problems that they don't even know exist."
Mr. Withers grew up in a conservative family in Grand Junction, Colo., the most populous city in Mesa County, a Republican stronghold near the Utah border that voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Trump. His father is an engineer, and his mother was often unemployed, he said, and he has two older siblings. His parents divorced when he was an adolescent, he added, and the family struggled with money. He attended church three times a week and a private Catholic school from preschool through eighth grade.
After school, he played video games like Fortnite and Call of Duty and became immersed in an online environment populated by figures like the YouTube stars the Nelk Boys. In his gaming circles, conservatism seemed like the "cool" choice for young men, he said. Although he could not yet vote, he considered himself a supporter of Mr. Trump's.
He absorbed his digital sphere's political ideas and its language: In October he apologized on X for having used racial and anti-gay slurs in 2019 and 2022.
When Mr. Withers began attending a public high school, in 2018, he became exposed to more points of view. He befriended a lesbian couple who challenged the anti-L.G.B.T.Q. rhetoric he had been taught in Catholic school, he said. The Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol occurred during his junior year: "I remember not understanding it that well, but being scared," he said. "That was almost, like, the nail in the coffin."
He began participating in livestreamed TikTok debates as a freshman at the University of Colorado Boulder in 2022, thrilled by the rush of adrenaline that came with debating issues like abortion and L.G.B.T.Q. rights before a live audience.
The debates cover subjects that swing from Mr. Withers's support for a cease-fire in Gaza to Mr. Trump's felony convictions. He tangles with the president-elect's supporters in person at football tailgates and online, streaming from home with white text hovering above his head: "Prove me wrong: Trump will be terrible for America." He alternates between patience and head-shaking frustration, occasionally hurling expletives at his interlocutors. Some of them respond to his ideas by flushing their toilets into the microphone.
Every few minutes, Mr. Withers thanks viewers for the $ 5, $ 10 and $ 15 PayPal donations that trickle in throughout each stream. These donations have become his main source of income, he said, including some as high as $ 1,000. (He declined to say how much he makes overall.)
Lately the Democratic Party has taken notice, too. Mr. Withers said he was so surprised to be invited to the White House that he assumed the email was fake. He asked his brother, who works in I.T., to check it out for him before responding.
At the White House reception on Tuesday, he mingled with the progressive commentator David Pakman and the president's son Hunter Biden. He saw the invitation as further proof that the Democratic establishment was beginning to take his cohort's approach seriously. "It's just starting to be recognized on a big level," he said.
This fall, instead of returning to school for his junior year, he took time off to stream more in the run-up to the presidential election. (He is still deciding when he will return to college.) In his free time, he said, he spends more time at the gym or playing piano or guitar, rather than video games. He is not yet sure what he wants to do with his career, although he did not rule out starting a podcast, creating a news publication or running for office.
In the meantime, some of his toughest political debates are at home. "I've had quite a few pretty bad discussions" with his family members, who are nearly all conservative, he said. "But I think the longer that I've done it, the more that they've seen of it, the more receptive to it a lot of them have become."
He was not, however, able to sway any of them to vote for Ms. Harris. The day before Thanksgiving, he posted a half-joking video on TikTok about the election-related arguments he anticipated having to wade into with "all 20 of my MAGA family members."
In the comments, several fans of Mr. Withers asked if he could come debate conservative relatives at their Thanksgiving tables, too.
Audio produced by Sarah Diamond.
Audio produced by Sarah Diamond.
Photograph Dean Withers is part of an ecosystem of left-leaning influencers. He has more than two million followers on TikTok. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NOBLE JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page ST2.

Subject: Catholic schools; Families & family life; Conservatism; Computer & video games; Presidential elections; Video recordings; Abortion; Debates; Political parties

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/19/style/dean-withers-tiktok.html

Title: Could This Liberal 20-Year-Old Be a Democrat Bro Whisperer?:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 29, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3149804163

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/could-this-liberal-20-year-old-be-democrat-bro/docview/3149804163/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

President-Elect Selects Callista Gingrich to Be Ambassador to Switzerland: [National Desk]

Author: Friedman, Lisa

Publication info: Friedman, Lisa. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/president-elect-selects-callista-gingrich-be/docview/3148793470/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In announcing his choice of various envoys, including ambassador to Denmark, the president-elect again floated the idea of the United States acquiring Greenland.
President-elect Donald J. Trump said on Sunday that he intended to nominate Callista Gingrich, who served as his ambassador to the Vatican during his first term, as ambassador to Switzerland.
Ms. Gingrich is the wife of Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a loyal Trump ally. At the Republican National Convention this summer, Ms. Gingrich accused President Biden of attacking religious freedom, and she praised Mr. Trump for installing three Supreme Court justices who she said were "committed to protecting our God-given right to worship."
The selection of Ms. Gingrich came amid a spate of announcements on Sunday that also included the choice of Mauricio Claver-Carone, who served during Mr. Trump's first term as his senior director for Western Hemisphere affairs, as the State Department's special envoy for Latin America.
Mr. Trump also picked Ken Howery, one of the founders of PayPal, to be the next ambassador to Denmark. Mr. Howery served as the ambassador to Sweden during Mr. Trump's first administration.
As part of the announcement of Mr. Howery, Mr. Trump revived the idea, floated during his first term, of buying Greenland, which is an autonomous territory of Denmark.
"For purposes of National Security and Freedom throughout the World, the United States of America feels that the ownership and control of Greenland is an absolute necessity," he wrote on social media.
That position followed his suggestion earlier on Sunday that his new administration might try to regain control of the Panama Canal. In a speech in Phoenix, Mr. Trump contended that the United States had "foolishly" ceded the canal to Panama during President Jimmy Carter's administration and was now being charged "ridiculous" fees to pass through the channel linking the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. President José Raúl Mulino of Panama flatly rejected Mr. Trump's demand on Sunday.
A spokesman for the Danish government did not respond to a request for comment on Sunday, but in 2019 Copenhagen and the government of Greenland quickly dismissed the idea of American ownership of Greenland after Mr. Trump first made the suggestion.
The idea came from Ronald S. Lauder, the New York cosmetics heir, according to Peter Baker and Susan Glasser in their book "The Divider: Trump in the White House, 2017-2021." Mr. Trump, they wrote, told his national security adviser that "a friend of mine, a really, really experienced businessman, thinks we can get Greenland." That set off a special team that wrote a memo laying out options, including a lease proposal.
Greenland said it was "not for sale."
Sherri Goodman, a former senior Pentagon official and a senior fellow with the Wilson Center Polar Institute, a Washington think tank, said Greenland was strategically important because of its proximity to the United States, an element that could appeal to Mr. Trump. Its ice caps, which are thawing because of climate change, could be saved if countries significantly cut the emissions from burning fossil fuels that are dangerously warming the planet, she said.
"Protecting these features and its people, as a NATO ally, while respecting its sovereignty, is a priority," Ms. Goodman said.
Photograph Callista Gingrich served as the ambassador to the Vatican during the first Trump term. This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Presidents; National security

Location: Switzerland; United States--US; Denmark; Greenland; Panama

People: Gingrich, Callista

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/22/us/politics/trump-callista-gingrich-ambassador-switzerland.html

Title: President-Elect Selects Callista Gingrich to Be Ambassador to Switzerland:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 24, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148793470

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/president-elect-selects-callista-gingrich-be/docview/3148793470/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Minnows and Whales Vie for Venture Deals: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/minnows-whales-vie-venture-deals/docview/3144468395/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Three decades ago, five men formed a venture capital firm on Sand Hill Road in Silicon Valley with a simple pitch: Small is beautiful.
Their firm, Benchmark Capital, planned to stick to venture capital's traditional playbook. It would write tiny checks to invest in private technology companies and help them succeed with guidance and connections. It would resist the urge to become bigger over time. Benchmark's founders even quoted Voltaire: "God is not on the side of the big arsenals, but on the side of those who shoot best."
Fourteen years later, two entrepreneurs set up shop across the street with a very different plan. They established Andreessen Horowitz, a venture capital firm that would do more of everything -- raise more money, do more deals, make more noise and flash more attitude. Ben Horowitz, one of the firm's founders, called his creation the "anti-Benchmark."
Since then, Andreessen Horowitz has expanded in every direction. It created funds focused on cryptocurrencies, defense and other tech, managing a total of $ 44 billion. It became a registered investment adviser, meaning it could own public stocks and cryptocurrencies. It hired 80 investment partners and opened five offices. It publishes eight newsletters and seven podcasts, and has more than 800 portfolio companies. It recently added private wealth management services. There are persistent rumors that it will go public.
Benchmark, on the other hand, has hardly budged. It still has five partners who make investments. This year, it raised a new $ 425 million fund, which is roughly the same size its funds have been since 2004. Its website is a single landing page.
The gap between the two firms -- one clinging to venture capital's traditional model and the other aggressively not -- underscores the profound divergence in the industry that funds and fosters American innovation. As venture capital grew and Sand Hill Road took on the same mythological proportions as Wall Street, many top venture firms followed Andreessen Horowitz's lead by supersizing. That propelled venture capital out of its longtime finance niche, turning it into a $ 1.2 trillion juggernaut last year, from $ 232 billion under management in 2009.
"The venture market has permanently changed," said Theresa Sorrentino Hajer, the head of venture capital research at Cambridge Associates, an investment firm that has backed venture funds since the late 1970s. "It's no longer a cottage industry by any stretch."
Those pushing venture capital's bigger-is-better strategy said their approach was simply the natural outgrowth of the industry's decades of success. Apple, Microsoft, Meta, Google and Amazon -- five of the world's most valuable public companies -- were all started with the help of venture money.
And as Marc Andreessen, an Andreessen Horowitz founder, predicted in a 2011 post, software ate the world. Tech has infiltrated every industry, creating infinite opportunities for start-up disruption. Now, bigger-is-better supporters say, even more money is needed to solve society's thorniest problems with innovation. Small funds, they scoff, can back only small ideas.
The growth has prompted frustration and fear about the delicate system of money, talent and ideas that makes Silicon Valley tick. Some worry that venture funds have become too big and the firms too bloated, with not enough good start-ups to invest in, which hurts returns. Smaller firms are struggling to compete against the big funds that can invest more, pay higher prices and more easily absorb losses.
"This is causing fundamental waves in the entire ecosystem," said Kyle Harrison, an investor at the venture firm Contrary. "I don't think enough people appreciate the negative aspects."
Some openly wonder whether there is still a place for boutique partnerships like Benchmark in an age of ever-expanding mega-firms like Andreessen Horowitz. It has raised the question: What even is venture capital anymore?
A $ 6.7 Million Bet on eBay
The venture playbook was created in the late 1950s when Arthur Rock, an investor, persuaded disgruntled employees of the pioneering chip company Shockley Semiconductor to defect and form their own start-up. He took a minority ownership stake in their new company, Fairchild Semiconductor, and incentivized the employees with shares. Within two years, Fairchild minted a return of 600 times its investment.
Mr. Rock's success induced others to look for the next new thing. Investment firms clustered among the fruit orchards of Santa Clara County, Calif., on Sand Hill Road. Some, such as Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital, became known as kingmakers that provided expertise, connections and, of course, money to help risky start-ups become the next Apple, Microsoft, Xerox and Google.
In 1995, Benchmark opened on Sand Hill Road. Its partners, including Bruce Dunlevie and Andy Rachleff, were a group of energetic men in their 30s and early 40s, most of whom had gone to Stanford Business School and had worked at other venture firms.
They named their firm Benchmark after the industry standard for investment returns -- not after themselves, as was common -- and decided against having an army of analysts, associates and junior partners. Every partner got equal decision-making power and an equal cut of the profits.
Benchmark quickly catapulted into the industry's top tier by investing in eBay in 1997. Mr. Dunlevie persuaded Pierre Omidyar, eBay's founder, to take Benchmark's $ 6.7 million investment at a valuation of $ 20 million, even though it was lower than a competing bid. Within two years, that bet was worth more than $ 4 billion.
EBay was one of several venture-backed start-ups from that era that went on to become major players in the new internet economy, including PayPal, Amazon and Google. But many other bets failed, and the 2000 dot-com crash tarnished venture capital's reputation. Founders warned of soulless, bloodsucking "sweater vests" who would kick them out of their own companies to save their investments.
In 2009, Mr. Andreessen, a creator of the Mosaic Web browser and the co-founder of the internet browser company Netscape, and Mr. Horowitz, a fellow Netscape executive, started their venture firm. They had been so put off by their own experiences with venture capitalists at their other company, Opsware, that it inspired them to start their own operation, they said.
Their aim: to treat founders better. In a 2015 interview with The New Yorker, Mr. Horowitz singled out Benchmark and said, "Our design was to not do what they did."
With a Fortune cover story announcing its first $ 300 million fund, Andreessen Horowitz immediately stood out as a brash and boisterous presence in an industry that typically stayed behind the scenes. Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Horowitz gave hundreds of media interviews discussing their "founder-friendly" approach, which included hiring teams of professionals to help start-ups with public relations, sales and recruiting.
By 2011, they had amassed $ 2.7 billion and invested in companies such as Airbnb and Stripe. Mr. Horowitz marveled at his firm's success in a blog post and bragged about how popular it had become with founders.
Its growing muscle was evident in 2012, when top venture firms, including Benchmark and Sequoia Capital, battled to invest in GitHub, a fast-growing website for software developers. Andreessen Horowitz's entrepreneurial mind-set was striking, said Tom Preston-Werner, a GitHub founder and its chief executive.
Andreessen Horowitz also made the highest bid, offering to invest an eye-popping $ 100 million in GitHub at a $ 750 million valuation.
"They gave us everything we wanted," said Chris Wanstrath, a GitHub founder. The deal solidified Andreessen Horowitz's place as an aggressive disrupter. It also paid off: Six years later, GitHub sold to Microsoft for $ 7.5 billion.
Andreessen Horowitz's swagger bothered the industry. In a 2013 interview with Mr. Andreessen, Sarah Lacy, a tech journalist, observed that other investors had complained about him.
"You have forever eroded the comfortable margins of venture capital," she said.
"Aw, that is so sad," Mr. Andreessen joked. "I feel terrible! How will they afford their third vineyard?"
In a separate interview, Mr. Horowitz called investors who did not want to compete "the crybabies of Silicon Valley."
Those crybabies responded by copying Andreessen Horowitz. Many hired public relations firms and teams to help start-ups with recruiting, marketing, design and other services. They espoused founder-friendly views on social media. They raised bigger funds.
'You Make Money When We Make Money'
In contrast, Benchmark mostly stuck to its knitting. Over the years, Mr. Dunlevie and Benchmark's other founding partners groomed a new generation to take over as they retired, including Bill Gurley, a former equities analyst, and Peter Fenton, an investor who joined in 2006. They made a string of winning bets on Uber, Twitter, Yelp, Zillow and others.
Benchmark's first eight funds, which were raised and invested from 1995 to 2019, generated returns of more than 7.5 times the money invested, after deducting fees and profits taken by the fund, a person with knowledge of the firm said.
Mr. Gurley, a frequent blogger and commentator, often bemoaned the glut of capital sloshing around the industry. He warned that the easy money was causing start-ups to be reckless and spend too much, with no sign of making a profit or going public.
"This threatens returns for all involved," he wrote in 2016.
His warnings intensified when outsiders, including SoftBank's $ 100 billion Vision Fund and Tiger Global's fast-moving hedge fund, barreled into start-up investing with hoards of cash. But others, led by Andreessen Horowitz, saw an opportunity to further build their empires by raising larger funds. Venture firms typically charge a two percent annual fee on their funds and take 20 percent of the profits on investments. Bigger funds meant bigger fees.
In 2016, Eric Vishria, a tech entrepreneur who had joined Benchmark, beat out eight other investors to back Cerebras, a chip start-up. Benchmark's small fund had been a factor in the decision, said Andrew Feldman, Cerebras's chief executive. That way, he knew the investors were not getting rich on fees; they would profit only if Cerebras succeeded.
"You make money when we make money," Mr. Feldman said.
In 2019, Andreessen Horowitz registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission so that it could invest beyond private start-ups. The firm promoted its "massive ambition" to become the best investor in everything. At least 19 other venture firms have followed, including Sequoia, General Catalyst and Thrive Capital.
Behind the scenes, limited partners -- the pension funds, endowments and wealthy families that invest in venture funds -- started worrying that the bigger funds would not produce the same payoffs.
Smaller funds have typically earned higher returns, said Ms. Hajer of Cambridge Associates, but they have also had higher rates of losses. Bigger funds tend to have median returns but fewer losses, meaning they are safer bets with less upside. The ballooning billion-dollar funds could change venture capital's return profile.
"You don't invest in V.C. to get median returns," she said.
Beezer Clarkson, an investor at Sapphire Partners, which invests in venture funds below $ 1 billion, said her firm sought out funds that could earn at least three times their money.
"It's harder to see that when the funds get large," she said.
Is Small Really Beautiful?
By 2020, 16 venture firms had raised funds that were over $ 1 billion, according to PitchBook, which tracks start-ups, up from just three such funds five years earlier.
That same year, Andreessen Horowitz and Benchmark competed once again -- this time to invest in Clubhouse, an audio app that took off during the coronavirus pandemic. Benchmark already knew Paul Davison, Clubhouse's founder, who had worked as an "entrepreneur-in-residence"-- a program for founders to develop new ideas -- at the firm.
But Andreessen Horowitz won out after offering to invest in Clubhouse at a valuation of $ 100 million, roughly 20 percent higher than Benchmark's offer, a person with knowledge of the deal said. Andreessen Horowitz also pitched its wide range of services, even using its Hollywood connections to wrangle celebrities like the comedian Kevin Hart to join the app. (Forbes earlier reported on details of the Clubhouse investment.)
Benchmark's partners began asking themselves if their "small is beautiful" model still worked, two people with knowledge of the firm said. They debated the issue when Miles Grimshaw, a young investor, joined Benchmark in 2020 from the New York firm Thrive Capital, where he had made large investments in older start-ups.
Expanding would let Benchmark do bigger deals and back more companies. But it would also mean hiring more staff and managing and mentoring them. The partners would have to schmooze limited partners and create a marketing department. They would have to build a more robust website and attend meetings about what it would look like.
That would all distract from finding the best start-ups to invest in and helping them succeed. Most crucially, Benchmark's partners worried that a bigger fund would produce worse returns, the people with knowledge of the firm said.
Benchmark decided to stay the course.
"We're always asking that question," Mr. Vishria said in a 2023 podcast interview. "You always have to be questioning your assumptions and are you doing the right thing."
The question came up again a year later during a frenzy to invest in Silicon Valley start-ups. Clubhouse was so hot that it turned down an offer to sell to Twitter for $ 4 billion, two people familiar with the talks said. Andreessen Horowitz gave the company more money at the same price.
Benchmark's partners had the same conversation and again decided to stay small, two people said.
The strategy cost it a partner. This year, Mr. Grimshaw returned to Thrive Capital. Soon after, Thrive raised its largest fund of $ 5 billion. Through a representative, Mr. Grimshaw declined to comment.
Divergent Paths on Artificial Intelligence
Andreessen Horowitz's investment in Clubhouse turned out to be a dud. In 2022, during a tech downturn, Clubhouse's popularity waned as people returned to in-person socializing. By 2023, the start-up had laid off half its staff and was reworking its app.
As the downturn worsened, venture capitalists struggled to cash in on their investments. In 2022 and 2023, venture firms invested more money than they returned to their investors, reversing a decade-long streak, according to Cambridge Associates data.
The lack of returns made it harder for younger, smaller venture firms to raise funds. Yet the biggest firms were flush. Andreessen Horowitz amassed a $ 7.2 billion fund this April. Another firm, Iconiq Capital, raised $ 5.75 billion in May, while General Catalyst gathered $ 8 billion in October.
Much of the new money is being earmarked for tech's latest obsession: artificial intelligence. In that arena, the contrast between the two investment models is stark. Andreessen Horowitz has invested in roughly 86 A.I. companies, including OpenAI. Benchmark, whose five partners do one or two deals a year, has backed around 20.
Their differing strategies were on display with 11x.ai, a hot A.I. sales company. In April, Sarah Tavel, a Benchmark partner, beat out eight firms to lead a $ 24 million funding into the start-up. A blog post she had written about A.I. and sales had aligned with 11x.ai's plans, said Hasan Sukkar, the start-up's co-founder and chief executive.
Even before 11x.ai announced the funding from Benchmark, Andreessen Horowitz swooped in with more money. The Andreessen Horowitz team, which had their own blog post titled the "Death of Salesforce," led a $ 50 million funding, increasing 11x.ai's valuation by nearly four times in just a few months, according to Mr. Sukkar.
It's too soon to know whether the mega-funds will succeed, since venture funds typically take at least a decade to pay off. In the meantime, industry watchers see a future in which Andreessen Horowitz and its peers follow the private equity giants Blackstone Group and KKR by listing their shares on the public markets.
Andreessen Horowitz has told its limited partners that it does not plan to go public, a person with knowledge of the situation said. But it has made no secret of wanting to build a tech investing empire. Mr. Andreessen has long been inspired by John Pierpont Morgan, the founder of the eponymous finance giant, and for years kept an image of the banker hanging in his office in Menlo Park, Calif., said a person with knowledge of the firm.
Staying small is riskier as the profits have to come from the investments, not the fees. But Benchmark has no intention of changing.
"When it works," Mr. Vishria said, "it's really magical."
Photograph From top: the Benchmark venture capitalists, from left, Bill Gurley, Mitch Lasky, Eric Vishria, Matt Cohler and Peter Fenton, in 2015; members of Fairchild Semiconductor, an early Silicon Valley start-up, in 1960; and Marc Andreessen, a founder of Andreessen Horowitz, whose venture capital firm takes the bigger-is-better approach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAGNUM PHOTOS; DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG) (BU8); Clockwise from top left: Ben Horowitz, a founder of Andreessen Horowitz; Paul Davison, founder of Clubhouse, which attracted interest from both Andreessen Horowitz and Benchmark; Chris Wanstrath, a founder of GitHub, which picked Andreessen Horowitz; and Sarah Tavel, an investor at Benchmark, who beat out other firms to fund an artificial intelligence start-up. Andreessen Horowitz later swooped in with more money for a new round of funding. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE BUGLEWICZ/BLOOMBERG; KELLY SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES; STEVE JENNINGS/GETTY IMAGES; DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG) (BU9) This article appeared in print on page BU8, BU9.

Subject: Digital currencies; Venture capital companies; Success; Public relations; Corporate profits; Startups; Investors; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Venture capital companies Public relations Corporate profits Startups Social networks

Location: Silicon Valley-Cal ifornia; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/13/technology/andreessen-horowitz-benchmark-venture-capital.html

Title: Minnows and Whales Vie for Venture Deals:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 15, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3144468395

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/minnows-whales-vie-venture-deals/docview/3144468395/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What Is Venture Capital Now Anyway?

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-is-venture-capital-now-anyway/docview/3144409334/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

SAN FRANCISCO — Three decades ago, five men formed a venture capital firm on Sand Hill Road in Silicon Valley with a simple pitch: Small is beautiful.
Their firm, Benchmark Capital, planned to stick to venture capital’s traditional playbook. It would write tiny checks to invest in private technology companies and help them succeed with guidance and connections. It would resist the urge to become bigger over time. Benchmark’s founders even quoted Voltaire: “God is not on the side of the big arsenals, but on the side of those who shoot best.”
Fourteen years later, two entrepreneurs set up shop across the street with a very different plan. They established Andreessen Horowitz, a venture capital firm that would do more of everything — raise more money, do more deals, make more noise and flash more attitude. Ben Horowitz, one of the firm’s founders, called his creation the “anti-Benchmark.”
Since then, Andreessen Horowitz has expanded in every direction. It created funds focused on cryptocurrencies, defense and other tech, managing a total of $44 billion. It became a registered investment adviser, meaning it could own public stocks and cryptocurrencies. It hired 80 investment partners and opened five offices. It publishes eight newsletters and seven podcasts, and has more than 800 portfolio companies. It recently added private wealth management services. There are persistent rumors that it will go public.
Benchmark, on the other hand, has hardly budged. It still has five partners who make investments. This year, it raised a new $425 million fund, which is roughly the same size its funds have been since 2004. Its website is a single landing page.
The gap between the two firms — one clinging to venture capital’s traditional model and the other aggressively not — underscores the profound divergence in the industry that funds and fosters American innovation. As venture capital grew and Sand Hill Road took on the same mythological proportions as Wall Street, many top venture firms followed Andreessen Horowitz’s lead by supersizing. That propelled venture capital out of its longtime finance niche, turning it into a $1.2 trillion juggernaut last year, from $232 billion under management in 2009.
“The venture market has permanently changed,” said Theresa Sorrentino Hajer, the head of venture capital research at Cambridge Associates, an investment firm that has backed venture funds since the late 1970s. “It’s no longer a cottage industry by any stretch.”
Those pushing venture capital’s bigger-is-better strategy said their approach was simply the natural outgrowth of the industry’s decades of success. Apple, Microsoft, Meta, Google and Amazon — five of the world’s most valuable public companies — were all started with the help of venture money.
And as Marc Andreessen, an Andreessen Horowitz founder, predicted in a 2011 post, software ate the world. Tech has infiltrated every industry, creating infinite opportunities for startup disruption. Now, bigger-is-better supporters say, even more money is needed to solve society’s thorniest problems with innovation. Small funds, they scoff, can back only small ideas.
The growth has prompted frustration and fear about the delicate system of money, talent and ideas that makes Silicon Valley tick. Some worry that venture funds have become too big and the firms too bloated, with not enough good startups to invest in, which hurts returns. Smaller firms are struggling to compete against the big funds that can invest more, pay higher prices and more easily absorb losses.
“This is causing fundamental waves in the entire ecosystem,” said Kyle Harrison, an investor at venture firm Contrary. “I don’t think enough people appreciate the negative aspects.”
Some openly wonder whether there is still a place for boutique partnerships such as Benchmark in an age of ever-expanding megafirms such as Andreessen Horowitz. It has raised the question: What even is venture capital anymore?
A $6.7 Million Bet on eBay
The venture playbook was created in the late 1950s when Arthur Rock, an investor, persuaded disgruntled employees of pioneering chip company Shockley Semiconductor to defect and form their own startup. He took a minority ownership stake in their new company, Fairchild Semiconductor, and incentivized the employees with shares. Within two years, Fairchild minted a return of 600 times its investment.
Rock’s success induced others to look for the next new thing. Investment firms clustered among the fruit orchards of Santa Clara County, California, on Sand Hill Road. Some, such as Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital, became known as kingmakers that provided expertise, connections and, of course, money to help risky startups become the next Apple, Microsoft, Xerox and Google.
In 1995, Benchmark opened on Sand Hill Road. Its partners, including Bruce Dunlevie and Andy Rachleff, were a group of energetic men in their 30s and early 40s, most of whom had gone to Stanford Business School and had worked at other venture firms.
They named their firm Benchmark after the industry standard for investment returns — not after themselves, as was common — and decided against having an army of analysts, associates and junior partners. Every partner got equal decision-making power and an equal cut of the profits.
Benchmark quickly catapulted into the industry’s top tier by investing in eBay in 1997. Dunlevie persuaded Pierre Omidyar, eBay’s founder, to take Benchmark’s $6.7 million investment at a valuation of $20 million, even though it was lower than a competing bid. Within two years, that bet was worth more than $4 billion.
EBay was one of several venture-backed startups from that era that went on to become major players in the new internet economy, including PayPal, Amazon and Google. But many other bets failed, and the 2000 dot-com crash tarnished venture capital’s reputation. Founders warned of soulless, bloodsucking “sweater vests” who would kick them out of their own companies to save their investments.
In 2009, Andreessen, a creator of the Mosaic web browser and co-founder of the internet browser company Netscape, and Horowitz, a fellow Netscape executive, started their venture firm. They had been so put off by their own experiences with venture capitalists at their other company, Opsware, that it inspired them to start their own operation, they said.
Their aim: to treat founders better. In a 2015 interview with The New Yorker, Horowitz singled out Benchmark and said, “Our design was to not do what they did.”
With a Fortune cover story announcing its first $300 million fund, Andreessen Horowitz immediately stood out as a brash and boisterous presence in an industry that typically stayed behind the scenes. Andreessen and Horowitz gave hundreds of media interviews discussing their “founder-friendly” approach, which included hiring teams of professionals to help startups with public relations, sales and recruiting.
By 2011, they had amassed $2.7 billion and invested in companies such as Airbnb and Stripe. Horowitz marveled at his firm’s success in a blog post and bragged about how popular it had become with founders.
Its growing muscle was evident in 2012, when top venture firms, including Benchmark and Sequoia Capital, battled to invest in GitHub, a fast-growing website for software developers. Andreessen Horowitz’s entrepreneurial mindset was striking, said Tom Preston-Werner, a GitHub founder and its CEO.
Andreessen Horowitz also made the highest bid, offering to invest an eye-popping $100 million in GitHub at a $750 million valuation.
“They gave us everything we wanted,” said Chris Wanstrath, a GitHub founder. The deal solidified Andreessen Horowitz’s place as an aggressive disrupter. It also paid off: Six years later, GitHub sold to Microsoft for $7.5 billion.
Andreessen Horowitz’s swagger bothered the industry. In a 2013 interview with Andreessen, Sarah Lacy, a tech journalist, observed that other investors had complained about him.
“You have forever eroded the comfortable margins of venture capital,” she said.
“Aw, that is so sad,” Andreessen joked. “I feel terrible! How will they afford their third vineyard?”
In a separate interview, Horowitz called investors who did not want to compete “the crybabies of Silicon Valley.”
Those crybabies responded by copying Andreessen Horowitz. Many hired public relations firms and teams to help startups with recruiting, marketing, design and other services. They espoused founder-friendly views on social media. They raised bigger funds.
‘You Make Money When We Make Money’
In contrast, Benchmark mostly stuck to its knitting. Over the years, Dunlevie and Benchmark’s other founding partners groomed a new generation to take over as they retired, including Bill Gurley, a former equities analyst, and Peter Fenton, an investor who joined in 2006. They made a string of winning bets on Uber, Twitter, Yelp, Zillow and others.
Benchmark’s first eight funds, which were raised and invested from 1995 to 2019, generated returns of more than 7.5 times the money invested, after deducting fees and profits taken by the fund, a person with knowledge of the firm said.
Gurley, a frequent blogger and commentator, often bemoaned the glut of capital sloshing around the industry. He warned that the easy money was causing startups to be reckless and spend too much, with no sign of making a profit or going public.
“This threatens returns for all involved,” he wrote in 2016.
His warnings intensified when outsiders, including SoftBank’s $100 billion Vision Fund and Tiger Global’s fast-moving hedge fund, barreled into startup investing with hoards of cash. But others, led by Andreessen Horowitz, saw an opportunity to further build their empires by raising larger funds. Venture firms typically charge a 2% annual fee on their funds and take 20% of the profits on investments. Bigger funds meant bigger fees.
In 2016, Eric Vishria, a tech entrepreneur who had joined Benchmark, beat out eight other investors to back Cerebras, a chip startup. Benchmark’s small fund had been a factor in the decision, said Cerebras CEO Andrew Feldman. That way, he knew the investors were not getting rich on fees; they would profit only if Cerebras succeeded.
“You make money when we make money,” Feldman said.
In 2019, Andreessen Horowitz registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission so that it could invest beyond private startups. The firm promoted its “massive ambition” to become the best investor in everything. At least 19 other venture firms have followed, including Sequoia, General Catalyst and Thrive Capital.
Behind the scenes, limited partners — the pension funds, endowments and wealthy families that invest in venture funds — started worrying that the bigger funds would not produce the same payoffs.
Smaller funds have typically earned higher returns, said Hajer of Cambridge Associates, but they have also had higher rates of losses. Bigger funds tend to have median returns but fewer losses, meaning they are safer bets with less upside. The ballooning billion-dollar funds could change venture capital’s return profile.
“You don’t invest in VC to get median returns,” she said.
Beezer Clarkson, an investor at Sapphire Partners, which invests in venture funds below $1 billion, said her firm sought out funds that could earn at least three times their money.
“It’s harder to see that when the funds get large,” she said.
Is Small Really Beautiful?
By 2020, 16 venture firms had raised funds that were over $1 billion, according to PitchBook, which tracks startups, up from just three such funds five years earlier.
That same year, Andreessen Horowitz and Benchmark competed once again — this time to invest in Clubhouse, an audio app that took off during the coronavirus pandemic. Benchmark already knew Paul Davison, Clubhouse’s founder, who had worked as an “entrepreneur-in-residence”— a program for founders to develop new ideas — at the firm.
But Andreessen Horowitz won out after offering to invest in Clubhouse at a valuation of $100 million, roughly 20% higher than Benchmark’s offer, a person with knowledge of the deal said. Andreessen Horowitz also pitched its wide range of services, even using its Hollywood connections to wrangle celebrities such as comedian Kevin Hart to join the app. (Forbes earlier reported on details of the Clubhouse investment.)
Benchmark’s partners began asking themselves if their “small is beautiful” model still worked, two people with knowledge of the firm said. They debated the issue when Miles Grimshaw, a young investor, joined Benchmark in 2020 from New York firm Thrive Capital, where he had made large investments in older startups.
Expanding would let Benchmark do bigger deals and back more companies. But it would also mean hiring more staff and managing and mentoring them. The partners would have to schmooze limited partners and create a marketing department. They would have to build a more robust website and attend meetings about what it would look like.
That would all distract from finding the best startups to invest in and helping them succeed. Most crucially, Benchmark’s partners worried that a bigger fund would produce worse returns, the people with knowledge of the firm said.
Benchmark decided to stay the course.
“We’re always asking that question,” Vishria said in a 2023 podcast interview. “You always have to be questioning your assumptions and are you doing the right thing.”
The question came up again a year later during a frenzy to invest in Silicon Valley startups. Clubhouse was so hot that it turned down an offer to sell to Twitter for $4 billion, two people familiar with the talks said. Andreessen Horowitz gave the company more money at the same price.
Benchmark’s partners had the same conversation and again decided to stay small, two people said.
The strategy cost it a partner. This year, Grimshaw returned to Thrive Capital. Soon after, Thrive raised its largest fund of $5 billion. Through a representative, Grimshaw declined to comment.
Divergent Paths on Artificial Intelligence
Andreessen Horowitz’s investment in Clubhouse turned out to be a dud. In 2022, during a tech downturn, Clubhouse’s popularity waned as people returned to in-person socializing. By 2023, the startup had laid off half its staff and was reworking its app.
As the downturn worsened, venture capitalists struggled to cash in on their investments. In 2022 and 2023, venture firms invested more money than they returned to their investors, reversing a decade-long streak, according to Cambridge Associates data.
The lack of returns made it harder for younger, smaller venture firms to raise funds. Yet, the biggest firms were flush. Andreessen Horowitz amassed a $7.2 billion fund in April. Another firm, Iconiq Capital, raised $5.75 billion in May, while General Catalyst gathered $8 billion in October.
Much of the new money is being earmarked for tech’s latest obsession: artificial intelligence. In that arena, the contrast between the two investment models is stark. Andreessen Horowitz has invested in roughly 86 AI companies, including OpenAI. Benchmark, whose five partners do one or two deals a year, has backed about 20.
Their differing strategies were on display with 11x.ai, a hot AI sales company. In April, Sarah Tavel, a Benchmark partner, beat out eight firms to lead a $24 million funding into the startup. A blog post she had written about AI and sales had aligned with 11x.ai’s plans, said Hasan Sukkar, the startup’s co-founder and CEO.
Even before 11x.ai announced the funding from Benchmark, Andreessen Horowitz swooped in with more money. The Andreessen Horowitz team, which had their own blog post titled the “Death of Salesforce,” led a $50 million funding, increasing 11x.ai’s valuation by nearly four times in just a few months, according to Sukkar.
It’s too soon to know whether the megafunds will succeed, since venture funds typically take at least a decade to pay off. In the meantime, industry watchers see a future in which Andreessen Horowitz and its peers follow private equity giants Blackstone Group and KKR by listing their shares on the public markets.
Andreessen Horowitz has told its limited partners that it does not plan to go public, a person with knowledge of the situation said. But it has made no secret of wanting to build a tech investing empire. Andreessen has long been inspired by John Pierpont Morgan, founder of the eponymous finance giant, and for years kept an image of the banker hanging in his office in Menlo Park, California, said a person with knowledge of the firm.
Staying small is riskier as the profits have to come from the investments, not the fees. But Benchmark has no intention of changing.
“When it works,” Vishria said, “it’s really magical.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Digital currencies; Venture capital companies; Success; Public relations; Corporate profits; Startups; Investors; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Venture capital companies Public relations Corporate profits Startups Social networks

Location: Silicon Valley-Cal ifornia; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910

Identifier / keyword: Omidyar, Pierre M; Stockpiling; Blogs And Blogging (Internet); Airbnb; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Models And Replicas; Draft And Recruitment (Military); Thrive Capital; Benchmark Capital; Venture Capital; Zillow.Com; Mobile Applications; Company Reports; Hart, Kevin; Cerebras Systems; Forbes Magazine; Santa Clara County (Calif); Netscape Communications Corp; Hollywood (Calif); Github Inc; Ebay Inc; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Andreessen Horowitz; Davison, Paul (Entrepreneur); Voltaire; New Yorker; Gurley, Bill; Kleiner Perkins Caufield &; Byers; Computer Chips; Innovation; Hiring And Promotion; Apple Inc; Earmarks (Finance); Google Inc; Clubhouse (Mobile App); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Private Equity; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Uber Technologies Inc; Trees And Shrubs; X (Formerly Twitter); Layoffs And Job Reductions; Customer Relations; Public Relations And Publicity; Pensions And Retirement Plans; Yelp; Wages And Salaries; Fairchild Semiconductor International Inc.; Amazon.Com Inc; Sapphire; Openai Labs; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Opsware Incorporated; Entrepreneurship; Rumors And Misinformation; Horowitz, Ben; Salesforce.Com Inc; Stocks And Bonds; Software; Income Inequality; Artificial Intelligence; Real Estate (Commercial); Lee, Thomas H; Softbank Corporation; Securities And Exchange Commission; Labor And Jobs; Andreessen, Marc L; Stanford University; Podcasts; Silicon Valley (Calif); Meta Platforms Inc; Travel And Vacations; High Net Worth Individuals; Cambridge Associates Llc; Sequoia Capital; Stripe Inc; Fenton, Peter (1972 ); Names, Organizational; Business; Microsoft Corp; Financial Planners; Start Ups; Menlo Park (Calif); Age, Chronological; Paypal; Xerox Corporation; Blackstone Group, The

Title: What Is Venture Capital Now Anyway?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 14, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3144409334

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-is-venture-capital-now-anyway/docview/3144409334/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Millions Paid In Refunds To Players Of Fortnite: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Derrick Bryson Taylor

Publication info: Derrick Bryson Taylor. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/millions-paid-refunds-players-fortnite/docview/3144222554/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Epic Games is making the payments, which average about $ 114, after settling accusations from the federal government that the studio tricked people into buying in-game items.
Fortnite players who were charged for unwanted purchases in the game where cartoony characters battle on a virtual island are starting to receive what could be $ 245 million in refunds from Epic Games for what the federal government called manipulative online practices.
Denver Wills, a 20-year-old college student near Anniston, Ala., who has been playing Fortnite since middle school, said that a friend had received $ 350 and that he hoped to get a similar amount. It would help him cover the costs of building a new computer.
"Any money's good money at this point," said Wills, who is waiting for his check in the mail.
Fortnite's in-game currency, V-Bucks, can be spent on cosmetics, weapons and outfits -- known as skins -- that enable players to make their avatars look like celebrities and fictional characters. To appear as John Wick, a player must spend about $ 19; the rapper Juice WRLD, who died in 2019, is about $ 14. When it is not on sale, a bundle of Spider-Man outfits and paraphernalia costs almost $ 50.
Epic agreed in December 2022 to a $ 520 million settlement with the Federal Trade Commission that sent a strong signal that federal officials were taking a more assertive stance toward regulating the tech industry. Customers could ultimately receive $ 245 million for what the agency called Epic's use of "dark patterns" to trick millions of players into unwanted purchases. Another $ 275 million will settle accusations that the studio violated the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act.
A representative for Epic, which released Fortnite in 2017, said the company did not have additional comments beyond a statement it made when the settlement was announced. In that statement, Epic said it now asked players to explicitly approve that they wanted their payment information saved.
"The old status quo for in-game commerce and privacy has changed, and many developer practices should be reconsidered," the statement said. "We share the underlying principles of fairness, transparency and privacy that the F.T.C. enforces."
In a news release this week, the federal agency said the settlement "also requires the company to get positive consent before charging users and banned it from locking players out of their accounts for disputing unauthorized charges."
PayPal payments and checks worth more than $ 72 million were sent out to a group of more than 629,000 Fortnite players on Monday, said Juliana Gruenwald Henderson, a spokeswoman for the Federal Trade Commission.
On social media this week, Fortnite players shared the size of their refunds, with examples ranging from $ 20 to $ 500. The average refund was about $ 114, Henderson said.
She said there were no details on when the next set of refund payments would be sent out or what the total amount would be. It depends on how many more people submit claims online before the deadline of Jan. 10, 2025.
Wills said that his claims form, which he filed in September 2023, asked him how many V-Bucks he had mistakenly spent in the game. "I went through my Fortnite locker and picked out the stuff I had bought on accident," he said.
Wills said that he continued to play Fortnite after the accusations against Epic emerged, but that he was pleased it was compensating players.
"It's pretty obvious," he said, "that there were probably children spending their parents' debit cards and credit cards on skins in the game because it was so easy to do that."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Settlements & damages; Privacy; Games; Refunds

Company / organization: Name: Epic Games; NAICS: 513210; Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/13/arts/fortnite-ftc-refunds.html

Title: Millions Paid In Refunds To Players Of Fortnite:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 14, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3144222554

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/millions-paid-refunds-players-fortnite/docview/3144222554/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

These Smartphone Apps Offer Mothers Sexually Abusing Their Children: [National Desk]

Author: Keller, Michael H

Publication info: Keller, Michael H. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/these-smartphone-apps-offer-mothers-sexually/docview/3144222510/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Smartphone apps downloaded from Apple and Google can allow parents and other abusers to connect with pedophiles who pay to watch -- and direct -- criminal behavior.
The promotional photo showed a mother affectionately hugging and kissing her daughter. The girl, around 8 years old, smiled into the camera.
With a few swipes on their phones, men entered a livestream where they paid $ 150 to watch the mother sexually abuse the girl for 10 minutes.
The horrendous activity wasn't hidden on some dark corner of the internet. It was available for anyone with an iPhone or Android to download from the Apple or Google app store.
The woman, who lives in Southeast Asia, promoted her livestream on Bigo Live, a video chat app where The New York Times viewed a screenshot of her profile early this year. When she was later contacted online by an undercover agent for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security -- posing as a man interested in young girls -- she directed him to another livestreaming app, where her pay-per-view sexual abuse had moved.
Since last year, The Times has been investigating the world of parents who run accounts on Instagram and elsewhere for their underage daughters and who post or sell racy photos of the girls, in some cases earning large sums of money. The Times reported in February that many of the so-called mom-run social media accounts with the biggest reach were overwhelmingly followed by adult men, including pedophiles.
The livestream apps downloaded from Apple and Google illustrate an even darker aspect of the social media technology boom, particularly for children living in poverty in developing countries. There, with the ease of a smartphone, parents and other adults can connect with pedophiles in the United States and elsewhere who pay to watch -- and direct -- criminal behavior.
After confirming the authenticity of the Bigo livestreamer with the authorities, The Times searched the Apple and Google app stores for other video chat apps. Reporters identified a sample of more than 80 apps that advertised children before stopping the search. They later contacted Homeland Security Investigations, the government's main law enforcement group for international exploitation, for comment.
The agency made the undercover agent available to answer questions, so long as he was not identified.
The apps had not been a focus of the agency's work, the agent said, but the criminal activity mirrored that on dating websites he had investigated. There, men search for women, typically in Southeast Asia, who charge to sexually abuse children on camera.
While mothers or other family members are the most common culprits, he said, other adults -- including members of criminal organizations -- sometimes arrange the abuse.
"The number one customer base paying for this abuse is in the United States," the agent said. "It's not like they are abused once a day. It's 50 men getting 50 separate shows. They'll wake up these kids in the middle of the night to be abused."
The livestream apps follow different models. Some, like Bigo, are designed for a mainstream audience to watch dancers, gamers or other content creators. Viewers can reward streamers with in-app currency.
Others are geared toward men looking for sexual encounters, and users can pay by the minute for private video chats. Although Apple and Google ban pornography from their stores, The Times found apps that showed nude adults in sexual poses. Some apps had names like "18+ Live & Video Chat," "Adult Live Chat" and "Adult Calls, Love Chat."
Streamers of all kinds collect money from their broadcasts, and the owners of the apps also take a cut, as do Apple and Google. The two big tech companies typically collect between 15 and 30 percent as a fee for in-app purchases.
In statements to The Times, neither Apple nor Google addressed the issue of in-app purchases for illegal streaming. Both companies said they had zero tolerance for child sexual abuse material and had removed or suspended the flagged apps. Both companies said they required app developers to police user-generated content on their platforms.
"We're constantly on guard for these kinds of violations which carry severe penalties including removal from the store and termination from our developer program," Fred Sainz, an Apple spokesman, said. "Our App Review team works 24/7 to review every new app and app update to ensure it meets our quality and safety standards, including stringent requirements for apps with person-to-person interactions."
Asked about The Times's sample of offending apps, Mr. Sainz said a majority had been detected during the company's standard review process, with an additional 20 taken down after an internal investigation in response to The Times's findings.
Karl Ryan, a Google spokesman, said the company "did not immediately uncover" child sexual abuse material in the apps The Times had flagged, but it suspended them "out of an abundance of caution" while the apps' developers were contacted. "We take this issue extremely seriously," he said.
Many of the apps on both platforms advertised sex shows or bestiality. The Apple App Store's search recommendations also helped The Times surface some of the apps advertising children by suggesting sexual terms such as "x.x.x live."
In response, the company changed its search recommendations to no longer suggest adult content, Mr. Sainz said.
One profile identified by The Times showed a woman in Vietnam offering "HOT VIDEO" and listed possible participants as two young sisters, a little girl, three little boys and a dog.
Another woman in Vietnam described sex acts she could perform along with an invitation to "see mother and daughter, son." A woman in the Philippines advertised "lil&Mom" and showed a preview video of a young girl. The profiles did not include abuse, which required payment to be viewed.
The livestreaming of child sexual abuse is thought to be most common in the Philippines, though the data is limited. International Justice Mission, a global human rights organization with a program to protect minors in that country, commissioned a study last year that estimated nearly 500,000 Filipino children were being abused in the creation of illegal imagery.
The country's top law enforcement official for such crimes, Brig. Gen. Portia B. Manalad of the Philippine National Police, said that she was aware of the apps, and that the agency had rescued more than 500 children and arrested more than 200 perpetrators -- mostly relatives, "usually the mother" -- over the last five years.
"We are trying our best to find the victims," she said.
In the United States, The Times found nearly 100 federal criminal cases over the past decade involving men paying to watch the livestreaming of child sexual abuse.
In October, a woman in South Dakota, Krystal Kay Bulin, was sentenced to eight years in prison after she moderated a chat room during sexually explicit livestreams involving a 16-year-old girl. Ms. Bulin, the girl's temporary guardian, facilitated the livestreams on an app called BuzzCast to help pay for a speeding ticket, according to court records.
A Florida man, Christopher John Streeter, has been serving life in prison since 2021 after sending roughly $ 130,000 over a decade to people in the Philippines to direct the rape of children as young as 12.
He paid a premium if the video depicted girls losing their virginity or suffering injuries because of the sexual violence. Court records show Mr. Streeter's victims were particularly vulnerable "due to poverty and illness."
As a result of that case, six abused girls were rescued by local authorities in conjunction with officers from Homeland Security Investigations. The undercover agent who spoke to The Times said such outcomes were especially gratifying because once a livestream session ends, the evidence often disappears.
"It's a very difficult crime to investigate," he said. "No one knows that it happened, except the poor kid that was raped, the mother that did it and the guy who paid for it."
By some measures, online child sexual abuse has increased in recent years. The distribution of such material surged during the pandemic, according to a study by Europol, the European law enforcement agency. An investigator for the organization said rates had been elevated ever since.
"Now, with these new livestreaming platforms and use of webcams, people can, from a relatively safe environment, abuse and direct the abuse of children from a distance in a very, very easy way," said the investigator, Danny van Althuis.
Sarah Gardner, who leads a child safety advocacy group, the Heat Initiative, said The Times's findings were particularly shocking given that Apple and Google both claim to hold apps on their marketplaces to the highest safety and content standards.
She faulted the two companies for allowing the livestreaming, and for facilitating and profiting from the payments.
"The most powerful companies in the world are enabling the sexual abuse of a child to be livestreamed on the internet," she said. On Thursday, Ms. Gardner and others protested at Apple's store in New York's Grand Central Terminal, calling on the company to improve child safety.
The Times learned of the streaming on Bigo Live from a 39-year-old man in Utah who had visited the woman's profile page on his iPhone in what he described as a period of suicidal depression. The man, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, paid $ 550 for the mother and another woman to sexually abuse their daughters, including the 8-year-old girl and another believed to be 3 or 4. Some of the payments were made through in-app tokens, but most of the money was transferred through PayPal, the man said.
The man saved recordings of the sessions and reported them to the Canadian Center for Child Protection, which verified the abuse to The Times. He also reported the women to Bigo Live's support staff, emails show.
A PayPal spokeswoman said the company worked with law enforcement around the world to help stop child exploitation.
Bigo Live said that when it received the report from the Utah man, "we took appropriate action against the creators involved, including account suspension and content removal." In its statement, the company said it was "deeply committed to protecting user safety" and was "continuously improving our technology and procedures."
When The Times searched for other smartphone apps with similar content, many were hiding in plain sight. In reviews posted to Apple's and Google's app stores, users warned of child exploitation on some apps.
Reviews for the apps Bigo Live, Gaze, Superlive and Tango mentioned parents sexually exploiting their children, according to an analysis by The Times and Brian Levine, a professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, who has created a database of app reviews with Hany Farid, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley. (Some apps were also identified with help from Primal Wijesekera, a research scientist at the International Computer Science Institute, where he maintains searchable records of the app stores.)
"Women use kids in their streams to promote child X and BIGO just let's it happen. Do not, repeat, do not download this disgusting app," one user wrote on the Apple App Store, using an abbreviation for "child exploitation."
"I have found people willing to serve there children on here," one user wrote about Gaze.
BuzzCast and Superlive did not respond to requests for comment. Representatives for Gaze and Tango said their companies had no tolerance for child sexual abuse material and pointed to multiple moderation systems they used to enforce their standards. They said that they took user reviews seriously, and also that the negative reviews were unrepresentative and may have been written by competitors.
"We are deeply committed to ensuring the safety of our platform," said Dor Isseroff, chief operating officer of Tango, adding that he was confident the app was not used to stream abuse, though some users were advertising the activity on other platforms. He said the company used information from the accounts The Times discovered to upgrade its moderation systems, and on Friday "identified and suspended dozens of profiles that violated our guidelines."
Quantifying the illegal activity is difficult, but it has become prevalent enough that Homeland Security last year added "crimes of exploitation," which includes child sexual abuse, to its list of priorities, putting it on par with terrorism and border security.
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro N. Mayorkas said in an interview that he had been aware of the issue since serving in the Obama administration. The problem has only grown, he said.
"I decided to lift its profile up and to devote the resources and attention accordingly," Mr. Mayorkas said.
Government officials in the European Union, too, have been working to make it easier to combat the livestreaming of child sexual abuse, which has been made difficult by differing laws. A proposal would update the bloc's criminal code to facilitate cross-border investigations.
In June, Homeland Security organized an investigative "sprint" with Europol, in which officials from 10 countries shared data from various investigations. It generated leads on nearly 200 "criminal buyers," a Europol spokeswoman said.
While the livestreaming apps may be relatively new to many authorities, they have been around for years. Many of the apps launched during the pandemic, when interest in live video surged. On the dark web, they have also been a topic of interest, according to the Canadian Center for Child Protection, which monitors such activity.
In one post mentioning Tango in January, a user shared a screenshot of a young girl and inquired: "Can anyone share the videos of this cutie who shows and masturbates along with her sister and mother in other videos?"
During 13 years working undercover, the Homeland Security agent said, he had helped rescue 286 children. He said the woman in the Southeast Asia case had been identified and the agency was now working with local authorities to rescue the 8-year-old.
Next year, he will take part in online safety education sessions for teenagers and train more agents.
Still, he said, "we've probably infiltrated .0001 percent of the actual abuse that's occurring."
Jennifer Valentino-DeVries contributed reporting. Produced by Gray Beltran and Rumsey Taylor.
Jennifer Valentino-DeVries contributed reporting. Produced by Gray Beltran and Rumsey Taylor.
Photograph Brig. Gen. Portia B. Manalad said her agency, the Philippine National Police, had rescued over 500 children in five years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA ACAYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Sarah Gardner, who leads a child safety advocacy group, criticizes Google and Apple as lax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA PONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Daughters; Child sexual abuse; Smartphones; Law enforcement; National security; Pedophilia; Rape; Social networks; User generated content; Criminal sentences; Girls; Criminal investigations; Sexual abuse; Criminology; Adults; Child pornography

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Social networks

Location: Southeast Asia; New York; United States--US; Philippines; Vietnam

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/07/us/child-abuse-apple-google-apps.html

Title: These Smartphone Apps Offer Mothers Sexually Abusing Their Children:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 14, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3144222510

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/these-smartphone-apps-offer-mothers-sexually/docview/3144222510/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Fight to Preserve the Value of Cash: [Science Desk]

Author: Span, Paula

Publication info: Span, Paula. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fight-preserve-value-cash/docview/3142421403/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "We're putting another burden on the elderly that we don't have to," one researcher said.
Some things you can no longer do with cash: Buy a well-loaded hot dog at any of the five Devil Dawgs eateries in and around Chicago. Order a Vermont Pale Lager from Hill Farmstead Brewery's taproom in Greensboro Bend, Vt.
Attend the annual BeachLife Festival in Redondo Beach, Calif., or buy food, drinks or merchandise there. Purchase admission to the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic Site in Hyde Park, N.Y., or to many other sites maintained by the National Park Service.
The park service's expanding no-cash policy exasperated several would-be visitors enough for them to sue in federal court earlier this year.
Anne Ronan, 70, a retired attorney, walks around Lake Merritt in Oakland, Calif., a few times a week. After the three-mile-plus trek, she sometimes stops at one of two local cafes. Neither accepts payment in cash.
Nor do a restaurant and a cocktail lounge nearby on Grand Avenue. "I don't find it unusual anymore," Ms. Ronan said.
To buy coffee and a croissant, she routinely carries a credit card in her pocket. She doesn't find that bothersome, but "as a public policy, it's not a good thing."
Jay Zagorsky, an economist at the Boston University Questrom School of Business and author of a forthcoming book called "The Power of Cash," agrees.
Though the United States is not yet a cashless society, "this is picking up speed all over the world," he said.
Some no-cash practices date to contagion fears after the outbreak of Covid; others are intended to discourage robberies.
"It has deterred a lot of crime," Dena Bachenheimer, the chief executive of Devil Dawgs, said. The chain went cashless in 2021.
But such policies disadvantage a number of groups, including low-income people who don't have bank accounts, people who have accounts but don't qualify for credit or debit cards, the homeless, undocumented immigrants and older adults.
Consumers of any age can encounter problems with electronic payments, despite their convenience and ubiquity. (Although every bill declares it is "legal tender for all debts, public and private," there is no federal law mandating that private businesses accept cash.)
One example: "We're seeing an increase in major natural weather disasters, and they take down the cashless society," Dr. Zagorsky said. "It depends on electricity, telecommunication networks and secure computer networks," all threatened by floods, hurricanes and fires.
Moreover, "the idea that we have trustworthy computer networks is farcical," he added. "In a cashless society, mobsters from Thailand or Kenya can attack you." At least with cash, "a thief has to be within striking distance."
Researchers have reported for years that consumers spend more when they're using credit and debit cards, which obscure what economists call the "pain of paying."
Tapping or swiping, gratifying consumers immediately while delaying the eventual pang, feels less real than handing over cash.
"It's too easy to make a purchase with your phone or credit card -- you just touch it," said Ruth Susswein, the director of consumer protection at Consumer Action, the national educational and advocacy organization. "It's like magic, until the bill arrives."
Privacy concerns, too, cut across age differences.
"If I give you a $ 5 bill and you give me a sandwich, no one is the wiser," said Jay Stanley, the senior policy analyst at the A.C.L.U.
By contrast, the middlemen facilitating digital transactions -- credit card companies, banks, the tech giants behind mobile apps -- "surveil the hell out of everything we do," then sell consumers' data, he said.
But older people may face particular obstacles as cash loses ground to electronic payments.
"A lot of these cashless systems are implemented through smartphones," Mr. Stanley said. "The level of smartphone ownership is lower among older adults, and facility with using them is also lower."
True. Pew Research has reported that only 79 percent of people over 65 have a smartphone, compared with 97 percent of people aged 30 to 49. Consumers over 55 used cash for 22 percent of payments last year, according to the Federal Reserve, compared with 12 percent among younger groups.
Last fall, when a federal survey asked respondents if they had used the internet for financial services like online banking and bill paying, or for sending money via services like Cash App, Venmo or PayPal, 85 percent of those in their 20s and 30s said yes.
The proportion dropped substantially among older consumers, to 70 percent of people in their 60s and to 64 percent of those in their 70s. Among consumers over 80, only about half used the internet for financial services.
"Cash is very simple," Dr. Zagorsky noted. "No buttons to push. No passwords to remember." When businesses and government agencies insist on electronic payment, "we're putting another burden on the elderly that we don't have to."
The threat of fraud also affects seniors disproportionately. "Online scams often target older adults," Ms. Susswein said.
The Federal Trade Commission recently reported that adults over 60 are less likely than younger adults to report losing money to fraud, but when they do, the lost totals run substantially higher. The number of seniors who have reported losing $ 100,000 or more has tripled since 2020.
Older adults are far more likely than younger ones to lose money to tech support scams, lottery and sweepstakes swindles, and family impersonations, the report said. Losses to investment and romance cons continue to climb, too.
Electronic payment can also harm low-income seniors by making overspending easier.
About 14 percent of people receiving Social Security retirement benefits rely on them for 90 percent or more of family income, the Social Security Administration said. The average monthly retirement benefit in 2024: $ 1,907.
There's not much margin for the kind of overspending that digital transactions make easier.
A few states (including Massachusetts, Colorado and New Jersey) have passed legislation requiring businesses, with certain exceptions, to accept cash. Legislators in other states (Florida, Vermont) have introduced similar bills.
Several cities -- New York, Philadelphia and San Francisco among them -- have also adopted laws prohibiting no-cash policies.
The action may soon shift to Congress. A bipartisan group of senators and representatives has sponsored the Payment Choice Act, requiring retail businesses to accept cash for on-site purchases of $ 500 or less.
First introduced in 2019 and reintroduced with some revisions last year, "it's gathering dust," said Jeff Thinnes, whose consulting firm in Virginia represents the newly formed Payment Choice Coalition.
Its corporate supporters include armored car companies, a bank based in Cincinnati, a risk management firm and a manufacturer of currency printing and sorting machines. The coalition intends to resurrect the legislation and push hard for its passage.
"We're not arguing for the demise of credit cards or payment apps," Mr. Thinnes said. "We want cash to remain a choice."
Resistance from the biggest banks, credit card companies and tech giants could be fierce, but consumer advocacy and privacy groups might lend the bill their support.
"We have a good shot at moving this forward," Mr. Thinnes predicted.
Plenty of older adults are adept at mobile apps or comfortable with credit cards, but still want the cash option preserved.
Maureen Edelson, a consultant in Montclair, N.J., visited the Penn Museum on the University of Pennsylvania campus a few years ago and stopped to buy a bottled drink at its cafe. The cashier regretfully told her she could not pay with cash (a policy related to Covid that has since been dropped).
Ms. Edelson, 67, could have pulled out a credit card, but "it's not my habit to use it for things like that," she said. "That's not what my generation does."
On principle, she asked for directions to the nearest water fountain.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIDGET BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Retirement; Credit card industry; Consumers; Smartphones; Computer networks; Social security; Low income groups; Consumer protection; Older people; Privacy; Financial services; Credit cards; National parks; Overspending; Fraud

Business indexing term: Subject: Retirement Credit card industry Consumers Smartphones Social security Consumer protection Financial services Credit cards

Location: United States--US; Vermont

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/07/health/elderly-cash-electronic-payments.html

Title: A Fight to Preserve the Value of Cash:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 10, 2024

column: The New Old Age

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3142421403

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fight-preserve-value-cash/docview/3142421403/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Rockbridge Network, a Secretive Group of MAGA Donors, Gathers Strength: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rockbridge-network-secretive-group-maga-donors/docview/3131681403/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Winklevoss twins, Rebekah Mercer, allies of Elon Musk, Donald Trump Jr. and top Trump campaign aides recently joined a conclave of right-wing donors who are suddenly flush with power.
Just four days after being named the next White House chief of staff, Susie Wiles was waiting patiently for an espresso drink at a five-star hotel in Las Vegas.
Overnight, she had become one of the most powerful people in America. The value of a minute of her time could not be higher during the presidential transition: Republican strivers are hounding her for desirable gigs, and back at Mar-a-Lago, President-elect Donald J. Trump has kept courting controversy with his picks.
Yet here she was thousands of miles away, flanked only by a security guard, alone in line at a Four Seasons coffee shop. She had just peeled off from lunch with other top Trump campaign officials, including her fellow campaign manager, Chris LaCivita; the pollster Tony Fabrizio; and the campaign's fund-raising chief, Meredith O'Rourke. "We're all just chilling," one member of the startled Trump entourage joked aloud when alerted that they had been spotted by a nearby New York Times reporter as they walked through the hotel.
What demanded the dayslong presence of all these Trumpworld figures during some of the most important weeks of their careers? The fall gathering of a secretive group of wealthy tech executives and their allies who have ascended swiftly within the Republican Party's donor class: the Rockbridge Network.
The group, which was co-founded five years ago by JD Vance, sprouted from an informal set of dinners into a powerful coalition of Republican donors who have given more than $ 100 million to Rockbridge projects since 2019, according to a person close to the group, helping lead Silicon Valley's march to the right. For Rockbridge, Mr. Vance's election as vice president was a crowning achievement -- and a tantalizing opportunity to wield new national influence.
But Rockbridge has largely kept its activities stealthy, mindful of how groups of wealthy conservatives like the Koch Network have drawn attacks from both liberal detractors and Republican wannabes.
As caravans of black S.U.V.s shuttled in the billionaires from their private jets last week, members of the Rockbridge roster could be spotted around the hotel: Rebekah Mercer, the scion of one of the most prolific Republican donor families, greeted well-wishers in the lobby. Working the happy-hour scene at the hotel bar were two close friends of Elon Musk's -- Ken Howery and Luke Nosek, whose time with Mr. Musk at PayPal made them megawealthy themselves.
And it was hard to miss Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, the 6-foot-5 cryptocurrency investors and former Harvard heavyweight rowers made famous in "The Social Network."
Attendees, with white-and-red gift bags and lanyards, knew to be closelipped when approached by hotel interlopers or by the Times reporter, who was not invited to the closed-press festivities. But a copy of the agenda listed remarks by several tech billionaires, including the Anduril co-founder Palmer Luckey and the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, who spoke about his support for deregulating technology and the mixed reaction in Silicon Valley to his endorsement of Mr. Trump, according to attendees.
There were tech up-and-comers, too: Donald Trump Jr. announced at the welcome dinner that he was entering venture capital. And days before the president-elect chose Robert F. Kennedy Jr. for health and human services secretary, Mr. Kennedy spoke extensively about his public-health work to a standing ovation. Ms. Wiles also led a session on "2024 Election Analysis," where she gave a preview of Mr. Trump's first days as president.
"It's the domestic 'Davos in the desert,"' said the Rockbridge backer Omeed Malik, referring to the annual business conference in Riyadh, and Donald Trump Jr.'s new business partner.
From small dinners to the Ritz-Carlton
Rockbridge began with more humility. Back in 2019, Mr. Vance, then best known as the author of "Hilbilly Elegy," and a conservative media figure named Chris Buskirk began informally hosting a series of small dinners with the hopes of laying groundwork for Mr. Vance's political career and, eventually, of building a Trump-aligned alternative to the Koch Network. One early meeting was organized by Mr. Vance with donors and activists at a resort in Rockbridge, Ohio -- and the name was born.
The group drew its first checks from Ms. Mercer and the venture capitalist Peter Thiel, and eventually caught the attention of Donald J. Trump, who spoke at a few meetings.
Once in the fall and once in the spring, Rockbridge began to gather at places like the Four Seasons in Palm Beach, Fla., or the Ritz-Carlton in Dallas for three days of political panels and business networking. Speakers included people like Tucker Carlson; the Thiel protégé Blake Masters; the casino mogul Steve Wynn; the investor David Sacks; and Woody Johnson, the billionaire owner of the New York Jets.
Not all attendees have politics at the top of their mind. Some are primarily interested in business, seeing Rockbridge as a conservative-tinged version of the elite Sun Valley conference.
Mr. Buskirk, a former contributing opinion writer to The Times who founded a pro-Trump publication called American Greatness in 2016, had limited experience working directly in politics. But he capitalized on his growing connections in the movement called the New Right, the conservative business world and Mr. Trump's orbit to organize the party's donors and build Rockbridge. He declined to comment for this article.
Rockbridge, according to literature distributed to donors this year, "builds lasting political infrastructure" and "strives to replace the current Republican ecosystem of think tanks, media organizations and activist groups that have contributed to the party's decline." The ambition is palpable, but some longtime attendees privately question whether the group has come close to delivering on those goals.
Mr. Vance's victory in his 2022 race for Senate in Ohio, and then his rise to the presidential ticket this year, served as powerful validation for Rockbridge and Mr. Buskirk, who remains in Mr. Vance's close orbit even today. Mr. Buskirk used Rockbridge resources to quickly start a super PAC this election cycle to bolster Mr. Trump's ground game. And Rockbridge, once dismissed by some moderates as a B-lister in the pecking order of G.O.P. fund-raising, prompted even some establishment-minded Republicans to trek out to Las Vegas.
There is still skepticism about how much money Rockbridge truly steers. Donors to the group tend to be younger and from entrepreneurial backgrounds, and their assets are less liquid. Start-up T-shirts mixed with MAGA hats and cowboy boots throughout the Four Seasons lobby, and people traveled there from tech hubs like Silicon Valley, Austin or Miami.
Quietly funneling $ 100 million into politics
Hosting this fall's gathering so soon after the election risked turning the summit into a wake. It was the opposite.
Even before the event officially began, Ms. Wiles was in Las Vegas, headlining an outdoor Saturday dinner at a steakhouse for about 30 Rockbridge donors and friends. Around the jubilant open bars and music-filled ballrooms, attendees openly traded notes on what Trump administration roles they might get and debated whether Mr. Musk was the world's most powerful person.
"Generally everyone at Rockbridge was very happy that technologists and politicians are working together directly again and not openly hostile toward each other," said John Coogan, the co-founder of Soylent who attended. "It's no longer a question of whether technology will drive the future, but how we guide its impact. So it makes sense that tech billionaires and the political elite are partying together."
Mr. Vance did not attend, a rare absence and a disappointment to some loyalists. But his victory made Rockbridge suddenly a hot ticket and spurred some last-minute sign-ups. After sometimes letting prospective members attend for just $ 5,000, Rockbridge raised the minimum cost to $ 25,000 (although some people said privately that they had been able to get in for less).
The cost of Rockbridge membership ranges from $ 100,000 to be a "limited partner" to $ 1,000,000 for a "principal partner," according to a prospectus seen by The Times.
That money goes toward the eight vehicles that Rockbridge steers, including four dark-money 501(c)(4) organizations, two super PACs, a donor-advised 501(c)(3) fund for nonprofit activity and the Rockbridge Network umbrella organization, an L.L.C. Mr. Buskirk's main super PAC, Turnout for America, has raised at least $ 25 million this year.
These eight Rockbridge groups have primarily run get-out-the-vote operations. One, called Faithful in Action, claims to have 160,000 members and organizes small churches with field teams twice a week. The group has no public presence.
Rockbridge groups have also produced documentaries that investigate prosecutors pursuing cases against Mr. Trump. Rockbridge, according to the prospectus, has since 2020 "underwritten" polling "that has been made available for free to allied media organizations." And the group has helped pay for "local and national investigations" that are "published by aligned media outlets."
A new breed of Republican donors
Mr. Vance's new job is likely to make Rockbridge and its 150 members influential players in pushing the Trump agenda.
In part, that is because Mr. Trump has had a sometimes frosty relationship with traditional Republican donor groups, including the libertarian Koch Network and the more hawkish American Opportunity Alliance. Rockbridge, by contrast, was born in the Trump era and shares his edginess, if not the wealth of those rival networks.
"There's a decision that big conservative donors have to make here," said Oren Cass, an influential conservative economist in Mr. Vance's orbit who is close with these major donors. "Up until the 2024 election, there was at least a colorable case to be made that maybe Trump isn't going to succeed."
That case is now no longer colorable, Mr. Cass said. "Who is stuck in the cargo hold of the old ship and going down with it -- and who actually wants to be relevant to the future of conservatism?" he asked.
Mr. Buskirk told donors in Las Vegas that during the campaign, Rockbridge had about 3,000 people in the field working on Mr. Trump's behalf. Now, after the Republican victory, Mr. Buskirk said, it was time for Rockbridge projects to grow even bigger.
Ken Bensinger contributed reporting.
Ken Bensinger contributed reporting.
Photograph Among those involved in the Rockbridge Network are, from top, Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, the Republican megadonor Rebekah Mercer and Susie Wiles (pictured with Eric Trump). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES; ANDREW HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Fund raising; Professional football; Conservatism; Political activism; Political parties; Venture capital; Political campaigns; Presidents; Political action committees--PAC

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; Ohio; Las Vegas Nevada

People: Trump, Donald J; Musk, Elon; Mercer, Rebekah; Trump, Donald J Jr

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/20/us/politics/rockbridge-trump-vance-wiles.html

Title: The Rockbridge Network, a Secretive Group of MAGA Donors, Gathers Strength:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 22, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3131681403

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rockbridge-network-secretive-group-maga-donors/docview/3131681403/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Federal Inquiry Traced Payments From Gaetz to Women

Author: Schmidt, Michael S

Publication info: Schmidt, Michael S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/federal-inquiry-traced-payments-gaetz-women/docview/3131486686/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

Federal investigators have established a web of payments among Matt Gaetz and dozens of friends and associates who are said to have taken part with him in drug-fueled sex parties, according to a document obtained by The New York Times.
Among those who received money from Gaetz were two women who have testified that he hired them for sex, according to the document and a lawyer for the two women. The lawyer said payments to the women ultimately totaled around $10,000.
The document obtained by the Times was assembled by federal investigators during a sex-trafficking investigation into Gaetz, who is President-elect Donald Trump’s choice for attorney general. It shows how Gaetz and a friend sent thousands of dollars through Venmo to dozens of people who, according to testimony that is said to have been given to federal and congressional investigators, were involved in sex parties from 2017 to 2020.
Among those who received payment from Gaetz’s friend, the document shows, was another woman who, according to people familiar with details of the case, was 17 when she attended one of the parties.
Gaetz, 42, represented Florida in Congress from 2017 until last week. He has vehemently denied any wrongdoing, and the federal investigation was closed by the Justice Department without any charges against him. Vice President-elect JD Vance accompanied Gaetz to Capitol Hill on Wednesday in an effort to build support for his nomination from Republican senators, some of whom have expressed doubt that he is confirmable.
The document was obtained by the House Ethics Committee, which met Wednesday amid growing pressure to release a report it has compiled on Gaetz but deadlocked on whether to do so.
Titled “VENMO TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN ALL INDIVIDUALS AS OF 09/14/20,” the document uses thumbnail photos of Gaetz, dozens of women and several other men to show how payments flowed between them. Lines with arrows connect the men and the women, showing, among other things, how much Gaetz and his associates paid the women.
Because the department declined to charge Gaetz with a crime, the documents amassed during the investigation have remained secret, as the department almost never releases materials that law enforcement agencies develop in investigations in which no charges are brought. But a copy of the chart was obtained by the House Ethics Committee during its own wide-ranging investigation into Gaetz’s conduct, including whether he had sex with the then-17-year-old.
Steven Cheung, the communications director for Trump, blamed the Justice Department for disclosure of the document, which he claimed was classified even though it has no classified markings and does not relate to national security.
“This purposeful leaking of classified investigative materials is the sort of politicized DOJ weaponization that Matt Gaetz will end,” Cheung said. “The Justice Department investigated Gaetz for years, failed to find a crime and are now leaking material with false information to smear the next attorney general.”
The chart does not say what the payments were for, nor does it show that Gaetz made a payment to the 17-year-old girl. But the chart shows payments the authorities believed Gaetz and his associates made to other women, including the two whose lawyer has said they testified to the House Ethics Committee that they had sex with Gaetz in exchange for money.
It has been publicly known for several years that women have claimed that Gaetz paid them for sex. Shortly after the Times revealed the existence of the federal sex trafficking investigation into Gaetz in 2021, it reported that investigators were focusing on Gaetz’s involvement with multiple women who were recruited online for sex and how they received payments.
The Times reported at the time that it had reviewed receipts from Cash App, a mobile payments app, and Apple Pay showing how Gaetz and Joel Greenberg, his associate and friend, had paid one of the women for sex with them.
The charts show different payments, all through Venmo, and provide the first documentary evidence from inside the federal investigation, showing how investigators examined Gaetz’s activities in meticulous detail, tracking not just his payments but also those of a large network of people said to have been involved in the parties.
The lawyer, Joel Leppard, said that two women he represents testified before the House committee that Gaetz had paid them in exchange for sex. One of the women said that she had witnessed Gaetz having sex with the 17-year-old but that she did not believe Gaetz thought the girl was younger than 18, according to Leppard.
The chart shows that one of Leppard’s clients received $4,025.27 and the other $3,500. It does not show the dates of the payments. Those amounts appear to be figures that combine several payments the women received from Gaetz; Leppard said that the women were typically paid $200 to $500 for each encounter with Gaetz.
Leppard confirmed in a telephone interview that his clients had received Venmo payments from Gaetz. Some of his remarks about the payments were reported earlier by ABC News.
Leppard said that along with Venmo payments, his clients had received money from Gaetz on PayPal. He said that he initially thought that his clients had received the amounts listed in the chart but said that when his clients were interviewed by the House committee, it turned out that the panel had obtained other evidence that showed additional payments.
Records the committee had, he said, showed payments from Gaetz to one of his clients totaling around $6,000, and showed payments to the other of $4,000.
He said he believed the committee had obtained the payment information by sending subpoenas to Venmo and PayPal.
The chart also helps to solidify the testimony of Gaetz’s now-former friend and chief accuser, Greenberg, a former local tax collector from Florida. He cooperated with the Justice Department in the federal investigation, telling authorities about how he and Gaetz both had sex with the 17-year-old, although he said they believed she was older than 18. Greenberg pleaded guilty in 2021 to an array of charges — including sex trafficking — and agreed to cooperate against Gaetz. He was later sentenced to 11 years in prison.
The chart shows that Greenberg paid the 17-year-old girl $450.
And it demonstrates that despite an unwillingness by the Justice Department to hand over to the House committee much of the evidence it developed about Gaetz during its investigation, the panel was able to obtain some of the information that investigators gathered as prosecutors weighed whether to charge Gaetz.
The House committee sought a range of information from the Justice Department about Gaetz but was repeatedly rebuffed.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Evidence; Attorneys general; Cooperation; Government investigations; Mobile commerce; Political ethics; Criminal investigations; Scandals; Human trafficking; Congressional committees

Business indexing term: Subject: Mobile commerce

Location: New York; United States--US; Florida

People: Trump, Donald J; Gaetz, Matt

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: House of Representatives-Standards of Official Conduct, Committee on; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Senate; Classified Information And State Secrets; Adultery; Vance, J D; Presidential Election Of 2024; United States Politics And Government; Wages And Salaries; Sex Crimes; Newspapers; Prostitution; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Apple Pay; Human Trafficking; Trump Tax Returns; New York Times; Abc News; House Of Representatives; Florida; Gaetz, Matt; United States; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Mobile Applications; Cash App (Mobile App); Justice Department; Schmidt, Michael S; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Greenberg, Joel (1985 ); Venmo; News And News Media; House Committee On Ethics; Rumors And Misinformation; Attorneys General; Sex; Television; Trump, Donald J; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Paypal

Title: Federal Inquiry Traced Payments From Gaetz to Women

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 21, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3131486686

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/federal-inquiry-traced-payments-gaetz-women/docview/3131486686/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inquiry Showed Gaetz Paments Went To Women: [National Desk]

Author: Schmidt, Michael S

Publication info: Schmidt, Michael S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inquiry-showed-gaetz-paments-went-women/docview/3131042868/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A document prepared by federal investigators bolsters claims by women who say they were hired for sex by Matt Gaetz, President-elect Donald J. Trump's choice for attorney general, who denies wrongdoing.
Federal investigators have established a web of payments among Matt Gaetz and dozens of friends and associates who are said to have taken part with him in drug-fueled sex parties, according to a document obtained by The New York Times.
Among those who received money from Mr. Gaetz were two women who have testified that he hired them for sex, according to the document and a lawyer for the two women. The lawyer said payments to the women ultimately totaled around $ 10,000.
The document obtained by The Times was assembled by federal investigators during a sex-trafficking investigation into Mr. Gaetz, who is President-elect Donald J. Trump's choice for attorney general. It shows how Mr. Gaetz and a friend sent thousands of dollars through Venmo to dozens of people who, according to testimony that is said to have been given to federal and congressional investigators, were involved in sex parties from 2017 to 2020.
Among those who received payment from Mr. Gaetz's friend, the document shows, was another woman who, according to people familiar with details of the case, was 17 when she attended one of the parties.
Mr. Gaetz, 42, represented Florida in Congress from 2017 until last week. He has vehemently denied any wrongdoing, and the federal investigation was closed by the Justice Department without any charges against him. Vice President-elect JD Vance accompanied Mr. Gaetz to Capitol Hill on Wednesday in an effort to build support for his nomination from Republican senators, some of whom have expressed doubt that he is confirmable.
The document was obtained by the House Ethics Committee, which met on Wednesday amid growing pressure to release a report it has compiled on Mr. Gaetz but deadlocked on whether to do so.
Titled "VENMO TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN ALL INDIVIDUALS AS OF 09/14/20," the document uses thumbnail photos of Mr. Gaetz, dozens of women and several other men to show how payments flowed between them. Lines with arrows connect the men and the women, showing, among other things, how much Mr. Gaetz and his associates paid the women.
Because the department declined to charge Mr. Gaetz with a crime, the documents amassed during the investigation have remained secret, as the department almost never releases materials that law enforcement agencies develop in investigations in which no charges are brought. But a copy of the chart was obtained by the House Ethics Committee during its own wide-ranging investigation into Mr. Gaetz's conduct, including whether he had sex with the then-17-year-old.
Steven Cheung, the communications director for Mr. Trump, blamed the Justice Department for disclosure of the document, which he claimed was classified even though it has no classified markings and does not relate to national security.
"This purposeful leaking of classified investigative materials is the sort of politicized D.O.J. weaponization that Matt Gaetz will end," Mr. Cheung said. "The Justice Department investigated Gaetz for years, failed to find a crime and are now leaking material with false information to smear the next attorney general."
The chart does not say what the payments were for, nor does it show that Mr. Gaetz made a payment to the 17-year-old girl. But the chart shows payments the authorities believed Mr. Gaetz and his associates made to other women, including the two whose lawyer has said they testified to the House Ethics Committee that they had sex with Mr. Gaetz in exchange for money.
It has been publicly known for several years that women have claimed that Mr. Gaetz paid them for sex. Shortly after The New York Times revealed the existence of the federal sex trafficking investigation into Mr. Gaetz in 2021, it reported that investigators were focusing on Mr. Gaetz's involvement with multiple women who were recruited online for sex and how they received payments.
The Times reported at the time that it had reviewed receipts from Cash App, a mobile payments app, and Apple Pay showing how Mr. Gaetz and Joel Greenberg, his associate and friend, had paid one of the women for sex with them.
The charts show different payments, all through Venmo, and provide the first documentary evidence from inside the federal investigation, showing how investigators examined Mr. Gaetz's activities in meticulous detail, tracking not just his payments but also those of a large network of people said to have been involved in the parties.
The lawyer, Joel Leppard, said that two women he represents testified before the House committee that Mr. Gaetz had paid them in exchange for sex. One of the women said that she had witnessed Mr. Gaetz having sex with the 17-year-old but that she did not believe Mr. Gaetz thought the girl was under 18, according to Mr. Leppard.
The chart shows that one of Mr. Leppard's clients received $ 4,025.27 and the other $ 3,500. It does not show the dates of the payments. Those amounts appear to be figures that combine several payments the women received from Mr. Gaetz; Mr. Leppard said that the women were typically paid $ 200 to $ 500 for each encounter with Mr. Gaetz.
Mr. Leppard confirmed in a telephone interview that his clients had received Venmo payments from Mr. Gaetz. Some of his remarks about the payments were reported earlier by ABC News.
Mr. Leppard said that along with Venmo payments, his clients had received money from Mr. Gaetz on PayPal. He said that he initially thought that his clients had received the amounts listed in the chart but said that when his clients were interviewed by the House committee, it turned out that the panel had obtained other evidence that showed additional payments.
Records the committee had, he said, showed payments from Mr. Gaetz to one of his clients totaling around $ 6,000, and showed payments to the other of $ 4,000.
He said he believed the committee had obtained the payment information by sending subpoenas to Venmo and PayPal.
The chart also helps to solidify the testimony of Mr. Gaetz's now-former friend and chief accuser, Mr. Greenberg, a former local tax collector from Florida.
He cooperated with the Justice Department in the federal investigation, telling the authorities about how he and Mr. Gaetz both had sex with the 17-year-old, although he said they believed she was over 18. Mr. Greenberg pleaded guilty in 2021 to an array of charges -- including sex trafficking -- and agreed to cooperate against Mr. Gaetz. He was later sentenced to 11 years in prison.
The chart shows that Mr. Greenberg paid the 17-year-old girl $ 450.
And it demonstrates that despite an unwillingness by the Justice Department to hand over to the House committee much of the evidence it developed about Mr. Gaetz during its investigation, the panel was able to obtain some of the information that investigators gathered as prosecutors weighed whether to charge Mr. Gaetz.
The House committee sought a range of information from the Justice Department about Mr. Gaetz but was repeatedly rebuffed.
Devlin Barrett contributed reporting.
Devlin Barrett contributed reporting.
Photograph (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Evidence; Attorneys general; Government investigations; Political ethics; Criminal investigations; Scandals; Human trafficking; Congressional committees; Nominations; Political appointments; Sex crimes; Payments

Location: New York; United States--US; Florida

People: Trump, Donald J; Gaetz, Matt

Company / organization: Name: House of Representatives-Standards of Official Conduct, Committee on; NAICS: 921120; Name: Department of Justice; NAICS: 922130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/20/us/politics/matt-gaetz-venmo-payments-sex.html

Title: Inquiry Showed Gaetz Paments Went To Women:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 21, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3131042868

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inquiry-showed-gaetz-paments-went-women/docview/3131042868/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Federal Inquiry Traced Payments From Gaetz to Women

Author: Schmidt, Michael S

Publication info: Schmidt, Michael S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/federal-inquiry-traced-payments-gaetz-women/docview/3131081375/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

Federal investigators established a trail of payments from Matt Gaetz, President-elect Donald Trump’s choice to be attorney general, to women including some who testified that Gaetz hired them for sex, according to a document obtained by The New York Times and a lawyer representing some of the women.
The document, assembled by investigators during a three-year sex-trafficking investigation into Gaetz, is a chart that shows a web of thousands of dollars in Venmo payments between Gaetz and a group of his friends, associates and women who had drug-fueled sex parties between 2017 and 2020, according to testimony that participants are said to have given to federal and congressional investigators.
At the parties, women, and a girl who was 17 at the time, were paid for sex, according to accounts of the participants’ testimony from people briefed on what they said.
The document bolsters recent claims by a lawyer for two of the women who say they had sex with Gaetz for money. It shows thousands of dollars in payments Gaetz made to both of the lawyer’s clients.
Gaetz, 42, represented Florida in Congress from 2017 until last week. He has vehemently denied their accounts, and the federal investigation was closed by the Justice Department without any charges against him. Vice President-elect JD Vance accompanied Gaetz to Capitol Hill on Wednesday in an effort to build support for his nomination from Republican senators, some of whom have expressed doubt that he is confirmable.
The document was obtained by the House Ethics Committee, which met Wednesday amid growing pressure to release a report it has compiled on Gaetz but deadlocked on whether to do so.
Titled “VENMO TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN ALL INDIVIDUALS AS OF 09/14/20,” the document uses thumbnail photos of Gaetz, dozens of women and several other men to show how payments flowed between them. Lines with arrows connect the men and the women, showing, among other things, how much Gaetz and his associates paid the women.
Because the department declined to charge Gaetz with a crime, the documents amassed during the investigation have remained secret, as the department almost never releases materials that law enforcement agencies develop in investigations in which no charges are brought. But a copy of the chart was obtained by the House Ethics Committee during its own wide-ranging investigation into Gaetz’s conduct, including whether he had sex with the then-17-year-old.
Steven Cheung, the communications director for Trump, blamed the Justice Department for disclosure of the document, which he claimed was classified even though it has no classified markings and does not relate to national security.
“This purposeful leaking of classified investigative materials is the sort of politicized DOJ weaponization that Matt Gaetz will end,” Cheung said. “The Justice Department investigated Gaetz for years, failed to find a crime and are now leaking material with false information to smear the next attorney general.”
The chart does not say what the payments were for, nor does it show that Gaetz made a payment to the 17-year-old girl. But the chart shows payments the authorities believed Gaetz and his associates made to other women, including the two whose lawyer has said they testified to the House Ethics Committee that they had sex with Gaetz in exchange for money.
It has been publicly known for several years that women have claimed that Gaetz paid them for sex. Shortly after the Times revealed the existence of the federal sex trafficking investigation into Gaetz in 2021, it reported that investigators were focusing on Gaetz’s involvement with multiple women who were recruited online for sex and how they received payments.
The Times reported at the time that it had reviewed receipts from Cash App, a mobile payments app, and Apple Pay showing how Gaetz and Joel Greenberg, his associate and friend, had paid one of the women for sex with them.
The charts show different payments, all through Venmo, and provide the first documentary evidence from inside the federal investigation, showing how investigators examined Gaetz’s activities in meticulous detail, tracking not just his payments but also those of a large network of people said to have been involved in the parties.
The lawyer, Joel Leppard, said that two women he represents testified before the House committee that Gaetz had paid them in exchange for sex. One of the women said that she had witnessed Gaetz having sex with the 17-year-old but that she did not believe Gaetz thought the girl was younger than 18, according to Leppard.
The chart shows that one of Leppard’s clients received $4,025.27 and the other $3,500. It does not show the dates of the payments. Those amounts appear to be figures that combine several payments the women received from Gaetz; Leppard said that the women were typically paid $200 to $500 for each encounter with Gaetz.
Leppard confirmed in a telephone interview that his clients had received Venmo payments from Gaetz. Some of his remarks about the payments were reported earlier by ABC News.
Leppard said that along with Venmo payments, his clients had received money from Gaetz on PayPal. He said that he initially thought that his clients had received the amounts listed in the chart but said that when his clients were interviewed by the House committee, it turned out that the panel had obtained other evidence that showed additional payments.
Records the committee had, he said, showed payments from Gaetz to one of his clients totaling around $6,000, and showed payments to the other of $4,000.
He said he believed the committee had obtained the payment information by sending subpoenas to Venmo and PayPal.
The chart also helps to solidify the testimony of Gaetz’s chief accuser, Greenberg, a former local tax collector from Florida. He cooperated with the Justice Department in the federal investigation, telling authorities about how he and Gaetz both had sex with the 17-year-old, although he said they believed she was older than 18. Greenberg pleaded guilty in 2021 to an array of charges — including sex trafficking — and agreed to cooperate against Gaetz. He was later sentenced to 11 years in prison.
The chart shows that Greenberg paid the 17-year-old girl $450.
And it demonstrates that despite an unwillingness by the Justice Department to hand over to the House committee much of the evidence it developed about Gaetz during its investigation, the panel was able to obtain some of the information that investigators gathered as prosecutors weighed whether to charge Gaetz.
The House committee sought a range of information from the Justice Department about Gaetz but was repeatedly rebuffed.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Nominations; Evidence; Testimony; Attorneys general; Cooperation; Government investigations; Presidents; Mobile commerce; Political ethics; Criminal investigations; Scandals; Human trafficking; Congressional committees

Business indexing term: Subject: Mobile commerce

Location: New York; United States--US; Florida

People: Trump, Donald J; Gaetz, Matt

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: House of Representatives-Standards of Official Conduct, Committee on; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Senate; Classified Information And State Secrets; Adultery; Vance, J D; Presidential Election Of 2024; United States Politics And Government; Sex Crimes; Newspapers; Prostitution; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Apple Pay; Human Trafficking; New York Times; Abc News; House Of Representatives; Florida; Gaetz, Matt; United States; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Mobile Applications; Cash App (Mobile App); Justice Department; Schmidt, Michael S; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Greenberg, Joel (1985 ); Venmo; Wages And Salaries; Women And Girls; News And News Media; House Committee On Ethics; Rumors And Misinformation; Attorneys General; Sex; Trump, Donald J; Trump Tax Returns; Appointments And Executive Changes; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Paypal

Title: Federal Inquiry Traced Payments From Gaetz to Women

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 20, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3131081375

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/federal-inquiry-traced-payments-gaetz-women/docview/3131081375/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Slash First, Fix Later: How Elon Musk Cuts Costs

Author: Ryan, Mac; Conger, Kate; Ewing, Jack; Lipton, Eric

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Conger, Kate; Ewing, Jack; Lipton, Eric. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/slash-first-fix-later-how-elon-musk-cuts-costs/docview/3129913368/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

On a Saturday morning in December 2022, Elon Musk summoned finance executives at Twitter, which he had bought six weeks earlier, to a conference call. Then he drilled into a spreadsheet that contained the social media company’s expenditures.
Musk was angry, three people who were on the call said. Even though Twitter had just shed more than three-quarters of its employees — leaving it with just over 1,500 workers, down from nearly 8,000 — the company’s spending still appeared to be out of control, the billionaire told attendees.
Over the next six hours, Musk read out the spreadsheet line by line and asked workers to account for each item. He ordered some items — such as car services for executives — to be cut completely. At one point, he confronted an employee who was responsible for a multimillion-dollar contract related to website security and said his electric vehicle company, Tesla, spent far less on the same task. After the employee pushed back, Musk said she was no longer with Twitter.
The meeting was characteristic of the approach that Musk has taken to cutting costs. Frugal to a fault, the 53-year-old has been intimately involved in hacking budgets at his companies, including Tesla, SpaceX and Twitter, which he renamed X. Over nearly three decades as a tech entrepreneur, he has honed his penny-pinching by digging into minutiae and cutting as deeply as possible — often preferring to cut too much rather than too little, according to 17 current and former employees and others with knowledge of Musk’s strategies.
Perhaps most importantly, Musk has been brutally unsentimental about the cuts, paying little regard to norms and conventions. The mogul has been unabashed about slashing costs to the point that corporate processes — and sometimes even product safety — break down, philosophizing that he can just fix things later, the people said. And he has been unafraid to offend, stiffing vendors to negotiate better prices and sidestepping traditional suppliers to manufacture cheaper parts from scratch.
“He used to be a deity,” said Jim Cantrell, SpaceX’s first vice president of business development. “But you know he’s just a business guy. And he wants to cut everything to the bone.”
Now Musk, whose net worth exceeds $300 billion, is set to take his economizing tactics to the federal government. Last week, President-elect Donald Trump named Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy, another Trump loyalist, to lead a new Department of Government Efficiency. Trump said the department would drive “drastic change” by making major cuts to bloated agencies across the federal bureaucracy by July 4, 2026, the nation’s 250th anniversary.
Musk appears to relish the mandate, repeatedly posting on X to his more than 205 million followers in recent weeks about how inefficient and spendthrift the federal government has been.
“The sheer magnitude of government waste is staggering to behold!” he wrote Wednesday. He has also sharpened his ax.
At a rally for Trump last month, Musk promised to eliminate $2 trillion, or 30%, from the federal budget. He recently suggested that government workers should send weekly lists of accomplishments to justify their employment. And he has mused that the government needs only 99 agencies, not more than 400.
The prospect that Musk will apply his methods to the U.S. government has brought back troubling memories for some who experienced his cuts.
“It was clear they came in with a lot of assumptions about the workforce and the value entire teams were bringing to the company,” Lara Cohen, a Twitter marketing vice president who was laid off after Musk’s takeover, said of the billionaire and his lieutenants. “They were not interested in hearing from people who had been doing the work, especially if it called their assumptions into question. That led to a lot of mistakes.”
Yet while Musk’s approach to budgets has sometimes caused chaos, his cuts may have helped pull back at least one of his companies from the brink of bankruptcy and propelled others ahead of rivals. He built Tesla and SpaceX into leading businesses that dominated their fields while keeping costs down.
At X, Musk embarked on a particularly sweeping austerity campaign, conducting mass layoffs, ignoring office lease bills and once personally pulling the plug of a server computer to expedite the shutdown of a data center so he could stop paying rent. Employees, analysts and users predicted that the cost-cutting would crash the social platform — but despite minor outages, it has continued operating.
Still, reducing spending at X, Tesla and SpaceX is not the same as slashing government expenditures, which are subject to a thicket of laws and processes. Congress dictates the federal budget, and any major trims could dip into entitlement programs, causing a backlash from vested interests.
The lack of apocalyptic outcomes from his companies’ cuts has nonetheless fueled Musk’s confidence. “I’m pretty good at improving efficiency,” he said on a podcast this month. He did not respond to requests for comment.
‘I Will Eat My Ball Cap’
From his earliest days as a tech entrepreneur, Musk was allergic to costs. In 1995, after establishing his first business in Silicon Valley — a software company for newspapers called Zip2 — he slept in the office to avoid paying for an apartment and showered at a nearby YMCA.
Musk later founded a company that evolved into the electronic payments firm PayPal, which eBay bought in 2002 for $1.5 billion. Musk set aside $100 million of his share of the windfall for a private spaceflight company, SpaceX, which he founded that same year on the belief that he could manufacture a cheaper rocket than the U.S. government.
SpaceX stripped out unnecessary components from rocket parts, simplifying them in a way that made them cheaper and faster to manufacture. Cantrell said he had once told Musk that the fuel tanks on the company’s first rockets would cost $1 million or more.
“It so offended Elon,” Cantrell said. “His words to me were, ‘If it costs that much I will eat my ball cap.’”
Musk began examining tanks used by trucks and the oil industry to see if they would be cheaper than those that major rocket companies had relied on, Cantrell said. SpaceX ultimately bought rolls of steel and welded pieces together to build its own tanks for a few hundred thousand dollars.
Chester Crone, an executive at Moog, which makes high-performance parts for spacecraft, said the company had sold mechanical actuators — devices that use power to force a physical movement — to SpaceX for one of its early rockets. But after their first purchase, SpaceX executives asked Moog to radically cut the price of its part.
“We don’t want it for $100,000,” Crone said he recalled SpaceX executives telling him. “We want it for $10,000.” SpaceX then asked if it could simply buy the design to manufacture the part itself. Moog refused, so SpaceX went elsewhere.
“At the end of the day, if he doesn’t like the price point that he’s getting from a supply maker, he will figure out an alternative,” Crone said of Musk, adding that Moog has rarely sold to SpaceX since.
SpaceX did not respond to a request for comment.
In 2010, SpaceX launched its Falcon 9 rocket, which costs about $550 million in inflation-adjusted dollars to develop and manufacture, according to Mo Islam, a co-founder and CEO of the space-industry newsletter Payload. The Falcon 9 is used for all of SpaceX’s commercial launches. NASA has estimated that the same system would have cost it as much as $4 billion to build.
Musk’s frugality not only saved SpaceX money but also created a commercial space boom. Getting a kilogram of cargo to orbit today costs about $2,600, compared with $65,000 on NASA’s now-retired space shuttle.
Cameras or Radar Sensors
At Tesla, where Musk became CEO in 2008, his low-cost tactics helped make the company’s electric vehicles profitable, while rivals like Ford Motor and General Motors lose money on every battery-powered vehicle they sell.
Musk has also used cuts as a motivational technique at the company. When Tesla rolled out its Model X SUV in 2015, Musk removed the free cereal from the company’s offices, two former employees said. That saved a few thousand dollars a month and sent a message that Musk was willing to cut — and cut deep — to keep the then-struggling company afloat.
At times, Musk’s efficiency measures may have put the safety of Tesla’s cars at risk. Since 2021, he has refused to use radar sensors for Tesla’s self-driving technology, relying instead on cameras to mimic a human driver’s vision. The cost of a camera is one-fifth that of a radar sensor, or less, at current prices.
In contrast, leading autonomous vehicle companies such as Waymo use radar and sometimes lidar sensors in addition to cameras.
Accident victims or their survivors have filed numerous lawsuits, claiming Tesla’s technology failed to recognize stop signs, vehicles and other obstacles, leading to injuries and deaths. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is investigating whether Tesla’s camera-dependent self-driving system was responsible for four collisions, including one that killed a pedestrian.
Musk has refused to budge. Vision “is really how humans drive,” he said during an investor call in April.
Tesla, which did not respond to a request for comment, has steadily increased spending on artificial intelligence and other research and development projects over the years, to $3.3 billion in the first nine months of 2024 from $2.9 billion a year earlier. But its revenue has increased faster: Research spending as a share of sales has declined to 4.5% so far this year from 4.8% in 2021.
Mass Layoffs
Musk’s starkest cuts were at Twitter. The day he completed his $44 billion purchase of the platform in October 2022, he fired the company’s four top executives “for cause,” a move that he concluded could save $128 million in compensation. (The executives have sued Musk for withholding severance payments.)
The firings were just the beginning. Musk then demanded mass layoffs before a November 2022 deadline to pay companywide bonuses. While the bonuses were eventually paid, Musk eliminated more than 75% of the workforce in his first six months in charge.
The job cuts and departures were so wide-ranging that they left the company “with greatly diminished institutional knowledge,” said Eddie Perez, who led Twitter’s civic integrity team and left the company in September 2022. “There was so much uncertainty and haphazardness about it.”
Musk also sought to eliminate more than $500 million in nonlabor spending. On Christmas Eve 2022, he flew to Sacramento, California, to shut down Twitter’s data center there. He had been angered by rent negotiations with the company that owned the property and demanded that Twitter leave the space immediately, two former employees said.
Against the advice of his employees, Musk unplugged a server while there to hasten the exit, the people said. That disrupted a tool used to monitor illegal activity on Twitter, forcing employees to work over the holidays to reconfigure the social platform’s infrastructure and ship servers to its two remaining U.S. data centers.
Twitter soon experienced several outages. But the changes generated more than $100 million in annual savings, the company announced a year later. X did not respond to a request for comment.
Musk has sometimes backtracked on his cuts after slashing too deeply. He tried rehiring some workers he laid off from Twitter. In April, he also brought back some employees of a Tesla unit that builds charging stations, weeks after laying off all 500 of them.
In the end, though, no detail was too small to save just a little. In December 2022, Musk stopped paying for janitorial services at Twitter’s offices, leaving trash cans overflowing and bathrooms unstocked. At the company’s New York office, one employee took toilet paper to work and hung it in the bathroom stall with a metal coat hanger as a makeshift spool.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Federal budget; Government waste; Employees; Electric vehicles; Cost reduction; Social networks; Political campaigns; Presidents; Expenditures; Efficiency

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal budget Employees Cost reduction Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA; NAICS: 927110; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

Identifier / keyword: Private Spaceflight; General Motors; Wages And Salaries; Shutdowns (Institutional); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Executive Compensation; Batteries; Bathrooms And Toilets; Space Shuttles; Waymo; Paypal; Motivation And Incentive Programs; Data Centers; Massachusetts; Bonuses; United States; Radar; Automobile Safety Features And Defects; Waste Materials And Disposal; Tesla Motors Inc; Lipton, Eric; Sensors; Politics And Government; Ebay Inc; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; California; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Missouri; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Social Media; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Government Efficiency Department (Us); Presidential Election Of 2024; X (Formerly Twitter); Layoffs And Job Reductions; United States Politics And Government; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Entrepreneurship; Federal Budget (Us); Deaths (Fatalities); Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Space And Astronomy; Labor And Jobs; Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Rock et Science And Propulsion; Compensation For Damages (Law); Sacramento (Calif); Names, Organizational; National Aeronautics And Space Administration; Business

Title: Slash First, Fix Later: How Elon Musk Cuts Costs

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 19, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3129913368

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/slash-first-fix-later-how-elon-musk-cuts-costs/docview/3129913368/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Chop First and Fix Later: How Musk Tames Costs: [National Desk]

Author: Ryan, Mac; Conger, Kate; Ewing, Jack; Lipton, Eric

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Conger, Kate; Ewing, Jack; Lipton, Eric. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chop-first-fix-later-how-musk-tames-costs/docview/3129879507/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Musk dug into his companies' budgets, preferring to cut too much rather than too little and to deal with the fallout later. Under Donald Trump, he is set to apply those tactics to the U.S. government.
On a Saturday morning in December 2022, Elon Musk summoned finance executives at Twitter, which he had bought six weeks earlier, to a conference call. Then he drilled into a spreadsheet that contained the social media company's expenditures.
Mr. Musk was angry, three people who were on the call said. Even though Twitter had just shed more than three-quarters of its employees -- leaving it with just over 1,500 workers, down from nearly 8,000 -- the company's spending still appeared to be out of control, the billionaire told attendees.
Over the next six hours, Mr. Musk read out the spreadsheet line by line and asked workers to account for each item. He ordered some items -- such as car services for executives -- to be cut completely. At one point, he confronted an employee who was responsible for a multimillion-dollar contract related to website security and said his electric vehicle company, Tesla, spent far less on the same task. After the employee pushed back, Mr. Musk said she was no longer with Twitter.
The meeting was characteristic of the approach that Mr. Musk has taken to cutting costs. Frugal to a fault, the 53-year-old has been intimately involved in hacking down budgets at his companies, including Tesla, SpaceX and Twitter, which he renamed X. Over nearly three decades as a tech entrepreneur, he has honed his penny-pinching by digging into minutiae and cutting as deeply as possible -- often preferring to cut too much rather than too little, according to 17 current and former employees and others with knowledge of Mr. Musk's strategies.
Perhaps most important, Mr. Musk has been brutally unsentimental about the cuts, paying little regard to norms and conventions. The tech mogul has been unabashed about slashing costs to the point that corporate processes -- and sometimes even product safety -- break down, philosophizing that he can just fix things later, the people said. And he has been unafraid to offend, stiffing vendors to negotiate better prices and sidestepping traditional suppliers to manufacture cheaper parts from scratch.
"He used to be a deity," said Jim Cantrell, SpaceX's first vice president of business development. "But you know he's just a business guy. And he wants to cut everything to the bone."
Now Mr. Musk, whose net worth exceeds $ 307 billion, is set to take his economizing tactics to the federal government. On Tuesday, President-elect Donald J. Trump named Mr. Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy, another Trump loyalist, to lead a new Department of Government Efficiency. Mr. Trump said the department would drive "drastic change" by making major cuts to bloated agencies across the federal bureaucracy by July 4, 2026.
Mr. Musk appears to relish the mandate, repeatedly posting on X to his more than 205 million followers in recent weeks about how inefficient and spendthrift the federal government has been.
"The sheer magnitude of government waste is staggering to behold!" he wrote on Wednesday.
He has also sharpened his ax. At a rally for Mr. Trump last month, Mr. Musk promised to eliminate $ 2 trillion, or 30 percent, from the annual U.S. budget. He recently suggested that government workers should send weekly lists of accomplishments to justify their employment. And he has mused that the government needs only 99 agencies, not more than 400.
The prospect of Mr. Musk's applying his methods to the U.S. government has brought back troubling memories for some who experienced his cuts.
"It was clear they came in with a lot of assumptions about the work force and the value entire teams were bringing to the company," Lara Cohen, a Twitter marketing vice president who was laid off after Mr. Musk's takeover, said of the billionaire and his lieutenants. "They were not interested in hearing from people who had been doing the work, especially if it called their assumptions into question. That led to a lot of mistakes."
Yet while Mr. Musk's approach to budgets has sometimes caused chaos, his cuts may have helped pull back at least one of his companies from the brink of bankruptcy and propelled others ahead of rivals. He built Tesla and SpaceX into leading businesses that dominated their fields while keeping costs down.
At X, Mr. Musk embarked on a particularly sweeping austerity campaign, conducting mass layoffs, ignoring office lease bills and once personally pulling the plug of a server computer to expedite the shutdown of a data center so he could stop paying rent. Employees, analysts and users predicted that the cost-cutting would crash the social platform -- but despite minor outages, it has continued operating.
Still, reducing spending at X, Tesla and SpaceX is not the same as slashing national expenditures, which are subject to a thicket of laws and processes. Congress dictates the federal budget, and any major trims could dip into entitlement programs, causing a backlash from vested interests.
The lack of apocalyptic outcomes from his companies' cuts has nonetheless fueled Mr. Musk's confidence. "I'm pretty good at improving efficiency," he said on a podcast this month. He did not respond to requests for comment.
'I Will Eat My Ball Cap'
From his earliest days as a tech entrepreneur, Mr. Musk was allergic to costs. In 1995, after establishing his first business in Silicon Valley -- a software company for newspapers called Zip2 -- he slept in the office to avoid paying for an apartment and showered at a nearby Y.M.C.A.
Mr. Musk later founded a company that evolved into the electronic payments firm PayPal, which eBay bought in 2002 for $ 1.5 billion. Mr. Musk set aside $ 100 million of his share of the windfall for a private spaceflight company, SpaceX, which he founded that same year on the belief that he could manufacture a cheaper rocket than the U.S. government.
SpaceX stripped out unnecessary components from rocket parts, simplifying them in a way that made them cheaper and faster to manufacture. Mr. Cantrell said he had once told Mr. Musk that the fuel tanks on the company's first rockets would cost $ 1 million or more.
"It so offended Elon," Mr. Cantrell said. "His words to me were, 'If it costs that much I will eat my ball cap."'
Mr. Musk began examining tanks used by trucks and the oil industry to see if they would be cheaper than those that major rocket companies had relied on, Mr. Cantrell said. SpaceX ultimately bought rolls of steel and welded pieces together to build its own tanks for a few hundred thousand dollars.
Chester Crone, an executive at Moog, which makes high-performance parts for spacecraft, said the company had sold mechanical actuators -- devices that use power to force a physical movement -- to SpaceX for one of its early rockets. But after their first purchase, SpaceX executives asked Moog to radically cut the price of its part.
"We don't want it for $ 100,000," Mr. Crone said he recalled SpaceX executives telling him. "We want it for $ 10,000." SpaceX then asked if it could simply buy the design to manufacture the part itself. Moog refused, so SpaceX went elsewhere.
"At the end of the day, if he doesn't like the price point that he's getting from a supply maker, he will figure out an alternative," Mr. Crone said of Mr. Musk, adding that Moog has rarely sold to SpaceX since.
SpaceX did not respond to a request for comment.
In 2010, SpaceX launched its Falcon 9 rocket, which costs about $ 550 million in inflation-adjusted dollars to develop and manufacture, according to Mo Islam, a co-founder and the chief executive of the space-industry newsletter Payload. The Falcon 9 is used for all of SpaceX's commercial launches. NASA has estimated that the same system would have cost it as much as $ 4 billion to build.
Mr. Musk's frugality not only saved SpaceX money but also created a commercial space boom. Getting a kilogram of cargo to orbit today costs about $ 2,600, compared with $ 65,000 on NASA's now-retired space shuttle.
Cameras or Radar Sensors
At Tesla, where Mr. Musk became chief executive in 2008, his low-cost tactics helped make the company's electric vehicles profitable, while rivals like Ford Motor and General Motors lose money on every battery-powered vehicle they sell.
Mr. Musk has also used cuts as a motivational technique at the company. When Tesla rolled out its Model X sport utility vehicle in 2015, Mr. Musk removed the free cereal from the company's offices, two former employees said. That saved a few thousand dollars a month and sent a message that Mr. Musk was willing to cut -- and cut deep -- to keep the then-struggling company afloat.
At times, Mr. Musk's efficiency measures may have put the safety of Tesla's cars at risk. Since 2021, he has refused to use radar sensors for Tesla's self-driving technology, relying instead on cameras to mimic a human driver's vision. The cost of a camera is one-fifth that of a radar sensor, or less, at current prices.
In contrast, leading autonomous vehicle companies such as Waymo use radar and sometimes lidar sensors in addition to cameras.
Accident victims or their survivors have filed numerous lawsuits, claiming Tesla's technology failed to recognize stop signs, vehicles and other obstacles, leading to injuries and deaths. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is investigating whether Tesla's camera-dependent self-driving system was responsible for four collisions, including one that killed a pedestrian.
Mr. Musk has refused to budge. Vision "is really how humans drive," he said during an investor call in April.
Tesla, which did not respond to a request for comment, has steadily increased spending on artificial intelligence and other research and development projects over the years, to $ 3.3 billion in the first nine months of 2024 from $ 2.9 billion a year earlier. But its revenue has increased faster. Research spending as a share of sales has declined to 4.5 percent so far this year from 4.8 percent in 2021.
Unplugging Costs
Mr. Musk's starkest cuts were at Twitter. The day he completed his $ 44 billion purchase of the platform in October 2022, he fired the company's four top executives "for cause," a move that he concluded could save $ 128 million in compensation. (The executives have sued Mr. Musk for withholding severance payments.)
The firings were just the beginning. Mr. Musk then demanded mass layoffs ahead of a November 2022 deadline to pay companywide bonuses. While the bonuses were eventually paid, Mr. Musk eliminated more than 75 percent of the work force in his first six months in charge.
The job cuts and departures were so wide-ranging that they left the company "with greatly diminished institutional knowledge," said Eddie Perez, who led Twitter's civic integrity team and left the company in September 2022. "There was so much uncertainty and haphazardness about it."
Mr. Musk also sought to eliminate more than $ 500 million in nonlabor spending. On Christmas Eve 2022, he flew to Sacramento to shut down Twitter's data center there. He had been angered by rent negotiations with the company that owned the property and demanded that Twitter leave the space immediately, two former employees said.
Against the advice of his employees, Mr. Musk unplugged a server while there to hasten the exit, the people said. That disrupted a tool used to monitor illegal activity on Twitter, forcing employees to work over the holidays to reconfigure the social platform's infrastructure and ship servers to its two remaining U.S. data centers.
Twitter soon experienced several outages. But the changes generated more than $ 100 million in annual savings, the company announced a year later. X did not respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Musk has sometimes backtracked on his cuts after slashing too deeply. He tried rehiring some workers he laid off from Twitter. In April, he also brought back some employees of a Tesla unit that builds charging stations, weeks after firing all 500 of them.
In the end, though, no detail was too small to save just a little. In December 2022, Mr. Musk stopped paying for janitorial services at Twitter's offices, leaving trash cans overflowing and bathrooms unstocked. At the company's New York office, one employee took toilet paper to work and hung it in the bathroom stall with a metal coat hanger as a makeshift spool.
Photograph Elon Musk often prefers to cut too much rather than too little. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES; MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) This article appeared in print on page A1, A18.

Subject: Budgets; Expenditures; Employees; Electric vehicles; Cost reduction; Social networks; Corporate finance; Financial management; Leadership; Cost control; Budgeting

Business indexing term: Subject: Budgets Employees Cost reduction Social networks Corporate finance Financial management Leadership Cost control Budgeting

Location: United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415; Name: X Corp (twitter); NAICS: 516210; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/16/technology/elon-musk-cost-cuts.html

Title: Chop First and Fix Later: How Musk Tames Costs:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 19, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3129879507

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chop-first-fix-later-how-musk-tames-costs/docview/3129879507/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At Mar-a-Lago, ‘Uncle’ Elon Musk Puts His Imprint on the Trump Transition

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-mar-lago-uncle-elon-musk-puts-his-imprint-on/docview/3127451862/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.

In nearly every meeting that President-elect Donald Trump holds at Mar-a-Lago in Florida, alongside him is someone who has been elected or nominated to nothing and, only a few months ago, had no meaningful relationship with him.
Elon Musk.
The world’s richest person has ascended to a position of extraordinary, unofficial influence in Trump’s transition process, playing a role that makes him indisputably America’s most powerful private citizen. He has sat in on nearly every job interview with the Trump team and bonded with the Trump family, and he is trying to install his Silicon Valley friends in plum positions in the next administration.
Trump announced Tuesday that Musk would help lead what he called the Department of Government Efficiency, a new body to “dismantle government bureaucracy.” But Musk’s true influence on the Trump transition effort goes well beyond that posting.
He has assumed an almost mythical aura in Trump’s inner circle. At Mar-a-Lago one recent evening, he walked into the dining room about 30 minutes after the president-elect did and received a similar standing ovation, according to two people who saw him enter.
Musk, often with his 4-year-old son X on his lap, has spent most of the last week at Mar-a-Lago, joining not just interviews but almost every meeting and many meals that Trump has had. He briefly shuttled back to Austin, Texas, where he has a $35 million compound, before returning Friday, where he ate in Mar-a-Lago’s dining room and on its patio, roamed the gift shop and spent time on the golf course — all alongside the president-elect.
“I’m happy to be the first buddy!” he replied to a social media follower this weekend.
This article is based on roughly a dozen interviews with Republican donors, politicians and friends of Musk, many of whom insisted on anonymity to talk about private conversations.
Publicly, over just the first week of the transition, Musk has endorsed Sen. Rick Scott of Florida to be the next Senate majority leader; urged Republican senators to embrace recess appointments for Trump; suggested that all government employees should submit a “weekly email of accomplishments”; called for the Department of Education to be closed; solicited recommendations for new administration roles that he could bring to Trump; wondered if Canada was “dying”; and posted plenty of Trump-themed memes.
Behind the scenes, Musk’s behavior has been far more hands-on than even some of his allies expected. His role, in the eyes of some Trump aides, even outstrips that of Howard Lutnick and Linda E. McMahon, the two formally appointed leaders of the Trump transition.
He has sat in on calls with foreign leaders, including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine, and plans to meet in person this week with President Javier Milei of Argentina when Milei visits Mar-a-Lago. Musk has also attended at least one national security meeting with Trump alongside the likes of Stephen Miller, a top aide, and Donald Trump Jr., according to a person briefed on the meeting.
On Wednesday, Musk is expected to accompany Trump to a meeting with House Republicans on Capitol Hill, according to a person close to the president-elect. Musk is flying aboard Trump’s plane to Washington, the person said.
Musk is generally not introducing new names for specific roles, according to people familiar with the process, typically evaluating only people whom the Trump transition team is already considering.
He has voiced support for Trump’s decision not to appoint Mike Pompeo or Nikki Haley to a senior national security position, although he unsuccessfully expressed concern about giving Rep. Elise Stefanik of New York a role that would take her out of Congress. (She has been offered the post of United Nations ambassador.)
Musk also has a good relationship with Brendan Carr, the commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission, who is seen as a front-runner to be the body’s next chair. The billionaire has recently voiced support for Carr in private conversations at Mar-a-Lago.
Karoline Leavitt, a Trump spokesperson, told The New York Times that Musk and Trump were “great friends and brilliant leaders working together to Make America Great Again.”
On a personal level, Trump seems to be taken with Musk, adopting him as a quasi member of the family. A photograph posted on social media by Tiffany Trump, Trump’s youngest daughter, featured the entire family, including grandchildren, at Mar-a-Lago with the message “Dad, we are so proud of you!”
Conspicuously, Musk was standing right in the mix, holding his son X.
“Elon, get in the picture with your boy,” Trump told him, according to a video of the moment posted online. “We have to get Elon with his boy — his gorgeous, perfect boy.”
On Sunday, Trump’s eldest grandchild, Kai Trump, put it a little more bluntly with a photo from the golf course: “Elon achieving uncle status.”
Muskworld Influence
Musk is not at Mar-a-Lago with a large entourage — just his son X, a nanny and some security. But his elevation has meant more influence on the fledgling Republican administration from a coterie of Silicon Valley figures who are close to the billionaire.
Trump has cultivated right-wing members of the tech world over the last year as he has adopted tech-friendly positions on cryptocurrency, artificial intelligence and Big Tech antitrust legislation. But at the same time, his vice president-elect, Sen. JD Vance of Ohio, has been a supporter of Lina Khan, the chair of the Federal Trade Commission and a target of some conservatives, including Musk.
Musk has said that he is recruiting an “A team” from the private sector to help overhaul the government and that he will ensure “that maniacally dedicated small-government revolutionaries join this administration.” It is unclear how these other tech executives and Musk himself, whose rocket company SpaceX has federal contracts, will avoid conflicts of interest as they work with the administration.
Musk has recommended two fellow executives at SpaceX, Gen. Terrence J. O’Shaughnessy and Tim Hughes, for administration roles, the Times has reported.
He has also been floating other friends and associates for gigs — or at least paved the way for them to have some influence.
Joe Lonsdale, a tech investor close to Musk, is not planning to play a formal role in the Trump transition, according to a person briefed on the matter, and he has said publicly that he does not want to join the administration “full time” but would rather play a part-time advisory role.
Another friend of Musk’s, Ken Howery, served as ambassador to Sweden during the first Trump administration and has told others that he is interested in another diplomatic position. Another person who could have some influence is Marc Andreessen, a prominent tech investor who, like Musk and Howery, spent election night at Mar-a-Lago.
Musk has also encouraged Palmer Luckey, a co-founder of the military technology startup Anduril, to aid the administration in some way, saying on the social platform X that it was “very important” for “entrepreneurial companies like yours” to be involved. Luckey said in a television interview that he had spoken with the Trump transition team about how he could help.
The friend of Musk’s who currently appears to have the most direct influence is David Sacks, a former colleague dating to their years at PayPal.
Sacks, who hosted a fundraiser for Trump in San Francisco in June, has developed a direct line of communication by phone with the president-elect. Sacks, who took a photo with Musk and Trump on election night and spent much of the evening in the candidate’s vicinity, has publicly pushed for Robert F. Kennedy Jr. to be given a position in the administration.
Sacks, a venture capitalist, has told friends since Election Day that because he leads an active fund, it would not be practical for him to play a more formal role in the administration. But he, like Musk, helped tank the idea of neoconservatives like Pompeo winning administration roles.
The Thiel Connection
Musk is in some ways reprising — and expanding upon — the role that another tech billionaire, Peter Thiel, formally played on Trump’s transition team in 2016. Thiel has since had something of a falling out with Trump, but he has been passing along potential names to the leaders of the transition effort.
Other figures with ties to Thiel are also in the mix.
Blake Masters, the former Arizona Senate candidate and Thiel’s longtime top aide, has spoken with transition officials about a possible role and made recommendations of other appointees, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Another longtime Thiel aide, Jim O’Neill, has told friends that he is interested in a health-related position, two people said.
Yet another former top Thiel aide, Michael Kratsios, served as chief technology officer in the first Trump administration and was recently tapped to help oversee the tech policy portfolio of the transition effort. He is also interested in joining the administration, according to a person who has spoken to him.
Thiel, for his part, should be riding high after the rise of Vance, his onetime protege. But despite their relationship, the mood at his election-night party last week in Los Angeles was relatively subdued, according to people who were there, though it began on West Coast time and unfolded with the outcome of the night mostly clear.
Thiel, like Musk, is a fan of gimmicks and lavish parties, and he paid homage to the concluding campaign. Bartenders were dressed in Trump wigs, and the food harked back to one of Trump’s campaign photo-ops: McDonald’s.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Dining rooms; National security; Verbal communication; Diplomatic & consular services; Cost reduction; Social networks; Presidents; Political appointments; Military technology; Employment interviews; Presidential elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Cost reduction Social networks Employment interviews

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; Florida

People: Trump, Donald J; Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Mar-a-Lago Club; NAICS: 713910

Identifier / keyword: Florida; Elections; Mar A L ago (Palm Beach, Fla); San Francisco (Calif); New York State; Appointments And Executive Changes; Motivation And Incentive Programs; Kennedy, Robert F Jr; House Of Representatives; Senate; Presidential Transition (Us); Endorsements; Federal Trade Commission; Stefanik, Elise; United States; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Ukraine; Private Spaceflight; Arizona; Canada; Politics And Government; Federal Communications Commission; Government Employees; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; United Nations; Masters Golf Tournament; Hiring And Promotion; Thiel, Peter A; Vance, J D; Social Media; Mcmahon, Linda E; Government Efficiency Department (Us); Presidential Election Of 2024; Part Time Employment; Ohio; X (Formerly Twitter); United States Politics And Government; Texas; Turkey; Wages And Salaries; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Scott, Richard L; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Los Angeles (Calif); State Legislatures; Entrepreneurship; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Sweden; Milei, Javier; Sacks, David O; Trump, Tiffany (1993 ); Newspapers; Masters, Blake (198 6 ); Elections, Senate; Nepotism; Republican Party; Haley, Nikki R; Labor And Jobs; Andreessen, Marc L; United States International Relations; Lutnick, Howard W; Kennedy, Robert Francis; Anduril Industries Inc; Education Department (Us); Television; Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; Trump, Donald J Jr; Government Contracts And Procurement; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Austin (Tex); Names, Organizational; Trump, Kai Madison; Pompeo, Mike; Fringe Groups And Movements; Start Ups; New York Times; Miller, Stephen (1985 ); Khan, Lina; Argentina; Conflicts Of Interest; Paypal

Title: At Mar-a-Lago, ‘Uncle’ Elon Musk Puts His Imprint on the Trump Transition

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 13, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3127451862

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-mar-lago-uncle-elon-musk-puts-his-imprint-on/docview/3127451862/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At Trump's Side, Musk Puts Stamp On Next U.S. Era: [Correction]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-trumps-side-musk-puts-stamp-on-next-u-s-era/docview/3127176549/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: He's on the patio. He's on the golf course. Everywhere Donald Trump looks, there is the world's richest man.
In nearly every meeting that President-elect Donald J. Trump holds at Mar-a-Lago, alongside him is someone who has been elected to nothing, nominated to nothing and, only a few months ago, had no meaningful relationship with him.
Elon Musk.
The world's richest person has ascended to a position of extraordinary, unofficial influence in Mr. Trump's transition process, playing a role that makes him indisputably America's most powerful private citizen. He has sat in on nearly every job interview with the Trump team and bonded with the Trump family, and he is trying to install his Silicon Valley friends in plum positions in the next administration.
Mr. Trump announced on Tuesday that Mr. Musk would help lead what he called the Department of Government Efficiency, a new body to "dismantle government bureaucracy." But Mr. Musk's true influence on the Trump transition effort goes well beyond that posting.
Mr. Musk has assumed an almost mythical aura in Mr. Trump's inner circle. At Mar-a-Lago one recent evening, he walked into the dining room about 30 minutes after the president-elect did and received a similar standing ovation, according to two people who saw him enter.
Mr. Musk, often with his 4-year-old son X on his lap, has spent most of the last week at Mar-a-Lago, joining not just interviews but almost every meeting and many meals that Mr. Trump has had. He briefly shuttled back to Austin, Texas, where he has a $ 35 million compound, before returning on Friday, where he ate in Mar-a-Lago's dining room and on its patio, roamed the gift shop and spent time on the golf course -- all alongside the president-elect.
"I'm happy to be the first buddy!" he replied to a social-media follower this weekend.
This article is based on roughly a dozen interviews with Republican donors, politicians and friends of Mr. Musk, many of whom insisted on anonymity to talk about private conversations.
Publicly, over just the first week of the transition, Mr. Musk has endorsed Senator Rick Scott of Florida to be the next Senate majority leader; urged Republican senators to embrace recess appointments for Mr. Trump; suggested that all government employees should submit a "weekly email of accomplishments"; called for the Department of Education to be closed; solicited recommendations for new administration roles that he could bring to Mr. Trump; wondered if Canada was "dying"; and posted plenty of Trump-themed memes.
Behind the scenes, Mr. Musk's behavior has been far more hands-on than even some of his allies expected. His role, in the eyes of some Trump aides, even outstrips that of Howard Lutnick and Linda E. McMahon, the two formally appointed leaders of the Trump transition.
He has sat in on calls with foreign leaders, including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey and President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine, and plans to meet in person this week with President Javier Milei of Argentina when Mr. Milei visits Mar-a-Lago. Mr. Musk has also attended at least one national security meeting with Mr. Trump alongside the likes of Stephen Miller, a top aide, and Donald Trump Jr., according to a person briefed on the meeting.
On Wednesday, Mr. Musk is expected to accompany Mr. Trump to a meeting with House Republicans on Capitol Hill, according to a person close to the president-elect. Mr. Musk is flying aboard Mr. Trump's plane to Washington, the person said.
Mr. Musk is generally not introducing new names for specific roles, according to people familiar with the process, typically evaluating only people whom the Trump transition team is already considering.
He has voiced support for Mr. Trump's decision not to appoint Mike Pompeo or Nikki Haley to a senior national security position, although he unsuccessfully expressed concern about giving Representative Elise Stefanik of New York a role that would take her out of Congress. (She has been offered the post of United Nations ambassador.)
Mr. Musk also has a good relationship with Brendan Carr, the commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission, who is seen as a front-runner to be the body's next chairman. The billionaire has recently voiced support for Mr. Carr in private conversations at Mar-a-Lago.
Karoline Leavitt, a Trump spokeswoman, told The New York Times that Mr. Musk and Mr. Trump were "great friends and brilliant leaders working together to Make America Great Again."
On a personal level, Mr. Trump seems to be taken with Mr. Musk, adopting him as a quasi member of the family. A photograph posted on social media by Tiffany Trump, Mr. Trump's youngest daughter, featured the entire family, including grandchildren, at Mar-a-Lago with the message "Dad, we are so proud of you!"
Conspicuously, Mr. Musk was standing right in the mix, holding his son X.
"Elon, get in the picture with your boy," Mr. Trump told him, according to a video of the moment posted online. "We have to get Elon with his boy -- his gorgeous, perfect boy."
On Sunday, Mr. Trump's eldest grandchild, Kai Trump, put it a little more bluntly with a photo from the golf course: "Elon achieving uncle status."
Muskworld influence
Mr. Musk is not at Mar-a-Lago with a large entourage -- just his son X, a nanny and some security. But his elevation has meant more influence on the fledgling Republican administration from a coterie of Silicon Valley figures who are close to the billionaire.
Mr. Trump has cultivated right-wing members of the tech world over the last year as he has adopted tech-friendly positions on cryptocurrency, artificial intelligence and Big Tech antitrust legislation. But at the same time, his vice president-elect, Senator JD Vance of Ohio, has been a supporter of Lina Khan, the chair of the Federal Trade Commission and a target of some conservatives, including Mr. Musk.
Mr. Musk has said that he is recruiting an "A team" from the private sector to help overhaul the government, and that he will ensure "that maniacally dedicated small-government revolutionaries join this administration." It is unclear how these other tech executives and Mr. Musk himself, whose rocket company, SpaceX, has federal contracts, will avoid conflicts of interest as they work with the administration.
Mr. Musk has recommended two fellow executives at SpaceX, Gen. Terrence J. O'Shaughnessy and Tim Hughes, for administration roles, The Times has reported.
He has also been floating other friends and associates for gigs -- or at least paved the way for them to have some influence.
Joe Lonsdale, a tech investor close to Mr. Musk, is not planning to play a formal role in the Trump transition, according to a person briefed on the matter, and he has said publicly that he does not want to join the administration "full time" but would rather play a part-time advisory role.
Another friend of Mr. Musk's, Ken Howery, served as ambassador to Sweden during the first Trump administration, and has told others that he is interested in another diplomatic position. Another person who could have some influence is Marc Andreessen, a prominent tech investor who, like Mr. Musk and Mr. Howery, spent election night at Mar-a-Lago.
Mr. Musk has also encouraged Palmer Luckey, a co-founder of the military technology start-up Anduril, to aid the administration in some way, saying on X that it was "very important" for "entrepreneurial companies like yours" to be involved. Mr. Luckey said in a television interview that he had spoken with the Trump transition team about how he could help.
The friend of Mr. Musk's who currently appears to have the most direct influence is David Sacks, a former colleague dating to their years at PayPal.
Mr. Sacks, who hosted a fund-raiser for Mr. Trump in San Francisco in June, has developed a direct line of communication by phone with the president-elect. Mr. Sacks, who took a photo with Mr. Musk and Mr. Trump on election night and spent much of the evening in the candidate's vicinity, has publicly pushed for Robert F. Kennedy Jr. to be given a position in the administration.
Mr. Sacks, a venture capitalist, has told friends since Election Day that because he leads an active fund, it would not be practical for him to play a more formal role in the administration. But he, like Mr. Musk, helped tank the idea of neoconservatives like Mr. Pompeo winning administration roles.
The Peter Thiel connection
Mr. Musk is in some ways reprising -- and expanding upon -- the role that another tech billionaire, Peter Thiel, formally played on Mr. Trump's transition team in 2016. Mr. Thiel has since had something of a falling out with Mr. Trump, but he has been passing along potential names to the leaders of the transition effort.
Other figures with ties to Mr. Thiel are also in the mix.
Blake Masters, the former Arizona Senate candidate and Mr. Thiel's longtime top aide, has spoken with transition officials about a possible role and made recommendations of other appointees, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Another longtime Thiel aide, Jim O'Neill, has told friends that he is interested in a health-related position, two people said. Yet another former top Thiel aide, Michael Kratsios, served as chief technology officer in the first Trump administration and was recently tapped to help oversee the tech-policy portfolio of the transition effort. He is also interested in joining the administration, according to a person who has spoken to him.
Mr. Thiel, for his part, should be riding high after the rise of Mr. Vance, his onetime protégé. But despite their relationship, the mood at his election-night party last week in Los Angeles was relatively subdued, according to people who were there, though it began on West Coast time and unfolded with the outcome of the night mostly clear.
Mr. Thiel, like Mr. Musk, is a fan of gimmicks and lavish parties, and he paid homage to the concluding campaign. Bartenders were dressed in Trump wigs, and the food harked back to one of Mr. Trump's campaign photo ops: McDonald's.
David McCabe and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.
David McCabe and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.
Photograph Elon Musk has sat in on calls with foreign leaders and attended at least one national security meeting with the president-elect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: National security; Diplomatic & consular services; Political appointments; Presidents; Political leadership; Presidential elections; Endorsements; Influence; Politics

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Mar-a-Lago Club; NAICS: 713910

Title: At Trump's Side, Musk Puts Stamp On Next U.S. Era:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Tim es, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 13, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3127176549

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-trumps-side-musk-puts-stamp-on-next-u-s-era/docview/3127176549/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

60%: [MONEY AND BUSINESS/FINANCIAL DESK]

Author: Nerkar, Santul

Publication info: Nerkar, Santul. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/60/docview/3110828956/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The share of debit transactions in the U.S. that the government says is run on Visa's network.
The Department of Justice filed an antitrust lawsuit against Visa on Tuesday, accusing the company of holding a monopoly over debit cards. Visa, the government said, processed more than 60 percent of debit transactions in the United States last year.
"Visa abuses its monopoly power to thwart existing debit rivals and buy off would-be rivals at the expense of consumers, merchants, banks and the competitive process itself," Doha Mekki, the principal deputy assistant attorney general at the Justice Department's antitrust division, said in a statement.
Julie Rottenberg, Visa's general counsel, called the suit "meritless" and said Visa would defend itself against it.
Visa charges merchants for using its payment networks. The government claims that those fees have gotten needlessly high because Visa has forced the merchants into primarily using its network. If merchants use other networks, Visa charges, or threatens to impose, even higher processing fees.
The lack of competition allowed Visa to generate more than $ 7 billion in processing fees per year while squeezing out potential competitors in the debit card market like PayPal and Square, the suit claims.
The Biden administration's antitrust enforcers argue that spurring competition, including by cracking down on corporate middlemen like Visa and, more broadly, companies that charge "junk fees," will protect small companies and consumers.
It is unclear how successful these efforts will be. The administration's move to cap late fees on credit card payments at $ 8 was blocked by a federal court in May. And a recent settlement to cap the credit card swipe fees that Visa and Mastercard charge merchants fell short of what was needed, according to merchant trade groups.
"I have seen a lot of cooperators. I have never seen one like Ms. Ellison."
Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court in Manhattan, referring to Caroline Ellison, who was a top adviser to Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of the FTX crypto exchange. She was sentenced to two years in prison for her role in the fraud that led to FTX's collapse.
"I'm not going to raise taxes on all French people. But I cannot exclude the wealthiest and corporations from the national effort to rectify the situation."
Michel Barnier, France's new prime minister, on raising taxes on businesses and the rich in an effort to fix the country's budget deficit.
"We're doing everything we can to mitigate it. But there's only so much you can do when you're at the mercy of these ports."
Chris Butler, the chief executive of the National Tree Company, on the potential impact to his business from a looming strike by dockworkers on the East and Gulf Coasts.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU2.

Subject: Antitrust; Fees & charges; Competition

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/26/business/the-big-number-60.html

Title: 60%:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 29, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3110828956

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/60/docview/3110828956/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Tech Bro Style in American Politics: [Op-Ed]

Author: Krugman, Paul

Publication info: Krugman, Paul. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-bro-style-american-politics/docview/3110161417/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It seems hard to believe now, but in 2021, Time named Elon Musk its Person of the Year. True, that designation doesn't necessarily equate to a stamp of approval. But the magazine's coverage of Musk at the time was very favorable, almost fawning, highlighting his assertion that "my career is Mars and cars."
A lot of people would disagree with that declaration now. Of course, Tesla and SpaceX remain big businesses. But Musk himself is largely defined in many minds by the way he changed X, the site formerly known as Twitter -- making more room for right-wing extremists, including a substantial number of pro-Nazi accounts, and his own embrace of antisemitic and racist conspiracy theories.
Musk's right-wing turn isn't universal or even typical: Reporting suggests that even with the rightward turn of several boldface names, Silicon Valley remains heavily Democratic. Political contributions from the internet industry, in particular, remain strongly tilted toward Democrats. But right-wing tech bros are exerting a significant and, I'd argue, malign influence on the political landscape.
Consider the case of JD Vance, the junior senator from Ohio and Donald Trump's running mate.
How did Vance get to where he is? He's a remarkable campaigner -- remarkable, that is, in the sense that he seems incredibly bad at it. I won't rehash the "cat ladies" contretemps except to say that it contributed to what will probably go down as one of the worst running-mate rollouts of all time. So who picked this guy?
The answer, it appears to me, is a handful of tech moguls led by the billionaire Peter Thiel, who in effect bought Vance a Senate seat by overwhelming his rivals with a flood of cash.
And in so doing they set someone who has, in my view, morphed into an ugly extremist on a path that could quite possibly put him a heartbeat away from the presidency: Bear in mind that Vance took the lead in spreading claims about Haitian migrants in Springfield, Ohio, stealing and eating neighbors' pets, and has gladly continued to perpetuate these claims even though they appear to be completely unfounded.
Then there's cryptocurrency, which isn't quite like other parts of the technology sector. Whatever you think of Musk, Tesla produces a real product with real uses; so, in a different way, does PayPal, the initial source of Thiel's vast wealth. Crypto, by contrast, remains a solution in search of a problem.
But a couple of months ago, there was Bernie Moreno, the pro-crypto Republican candidate for Ohio's other Senate seat, at a bitcoin convention asking, "Are you sick of these politicians who say bitcoin is for drug dealing and money laundering?" Actually, no: I'm sick of the fact that crypto's most obvious and ready use is indeed for drug dealing and money laundering, having tried and failed to find significant legal uses.
Yet crypto is marketed as a revolutionary technology, and some of its biggest boosters are among the tech bros who've been lurching to the right, so it makes sense to put crypto's political role in the same basket.
And crypto is playing a big role in the 2024 election. Axios writes that according to an August report from Public Citizen, "The crypto industry accounts for almost half the money contributed by corporations to political action committees so far in 2024." The Washington Post just reported that in Ohio, the industry has spent over $ 38 million supporting Moreno against the incumbent Democrat, Sherrod Brown.
Why is crypto spending so big? Pretty clearly, the industry fears regulation: Gary Gensler, the chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has argued that crypto assets should be viewed as and regulated like securities -- which could damage or even wipe out their value by undermining some of the hype.
Beyond that, a growing share of crypto assets consists of stablecoins, issued by institutions that peg their value in terms of traditional currencies, like U.S. dollars. We have a name, though, for institutions that issue liabilities that they promise to exchange for hard currency on demand: banks. And centuries of experience tell us that banks need to be regulated to ensure financial stability. Even Adam Smith, in "The Wealth of Nations," called for bank regulation.
But stablecoins aren't regulated like banks, and it's not clear whether they could compete if they were.
So crypto's political spending clearly seems motivated by financial self-interest, while the right-wing lurch of other tech bros may -- as a Facebook founder, Chris Hughes, put it the other day in The Times -- reflect a sense of common cause with Trump, who like them believes that he shouldn't have to play by the rules. (I'd add that men of great wealth can sometimes be susceptible to conspiracy theories because they are all too often surrounded by people who tell them what they want to hear -- and who laugh at their jokes even when they aren't funny.)
Whatever their motivations, political spending by tech bros could have huge effects on U.S. politics. That Ohio race, by itself, could determine control of the Senate, with enormous impact on federal policy on many fronts.
In short, the tech bro style in American politics has emerged as a major force, one that, in my view, is pushing our democracy closer to catastrophe.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
This article appeared in print on page A23.

Subject: Digital currencies; Extremism; Money laundering; Conspiracy; Congressional elections; Politics

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies

Location: United States--US; Ohio

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Senate-US; NAICS: 921120; Name: Tesla Inc; NAICS: 336110, 336999

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/26/opinion/cryptocurrency-election-moreno-vance.html

Title: The Tech Bro Style in American Politics:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.23

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 27, 2024

column: Paul Krugman

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3110161417

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-bro-style-american-politics/docview/3110161417/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Government Accuses Visa Of Monopoly In Debit Use: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Hirsch, Lauren; Kaye, Danielle

Publication info: Hirsch, Lauren; Kaye, Danielle. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/government-accuses-visa-monopoly-debit-use/docview/3108887938/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The financial giant, which processes the majority of debit card spending in the United States, unfairly imposed fees on merchants and deterred rivals, the Justice Department said.
The Justice Department filed an antitrust lawsuit against Visa on Tuesday, accusing the financial giant of unfairly stifling competition in debit cards, the latest in a string of cases aimed at deterring monopolistic behavior by big companies.
For more than a decade, the government claims in its complaint, Visa has entered into de facto exclusive agreements with merchants and banks, encouraging them to route the bulk of their transactions through Visa's payment network. The company has maintained a monopoly in large part by imposing or threatening to impose higher fees on merchants that also use other payment networks to process debit transactions, according to the Justice Department.
The lawsuit stems from a sweeping investigation dating back years. It is part of a series of efforts made by enforcers under the Biden administration to target corporate middlemen, which it says needlessly increase fees, and take aim at power wielded by companies spanning technology to agriculture. President Biden in 2021 rolled out an executive order that made aggressive antitrust enforcement a pillar of his economic policy.
Visa is a very big middleman: It processed $ 3.8 trillion in U.S. debit transactions in the year through June, generating over $ 7 billion in processing fees per year, the Justice Department said. Those account for more than 60 percent of all such transactions.
"Visa's unlawful conduct affects not just the price of one thing, but the price of nearly everything," Attorney General Merrick B. Garland said in a statement accompanying the complaint, which was filed in the Southern District of New York.
Visa's fees, which are largely invisible to the public, are paid by merchants and can be passed on to consumers, hitting younger and lower-income Americans the hardest, Benjamin Mizer, the Justice Department's third-ranking official, said at a press conference on Tuesday.
Julie Rottenberg, Visa's general counsel, said in statement: "Today's lawsuit ignores the reality that Visa is just one of many competitors in a debit space that is growing, with entrants who are thriving."
Ms. Rottenberg added, "This lawsuit is meritless, and we will defend ourselves vigorously."
The antitrust violations outlined in the government's complaint encompass all debit transactions using a physical card, as well as online or app-based purchases. Suppressing alternative card networks, which connect a card holder's bank to the merchant's bank when a purchase is made, has reduced competition in the market and "slowed innovation in the debit payments ecosystem," the Justice Department said.
The government also claims that Visa has deterred other companies, such as PayPal and Square, from entering the debit card market. It says that Visa has paid financial technology companies to be partners, rather than let them evolve into rivals, citing internal Visa documents.
"Visa abuses its monopoly power to thwart existing debit rivals and buy off would-be rivals at the expense of consumers, merchants, banks and the competitive process itself," Doha Mekki, the principal deputy assistant attorney general at the Justice Department's antitrust division, said in a statement.
The department's concerns with Visa are longstanding. Its antitrust division in 2020 sued to block Visa's $ 5.3 billion deal to acquire the financial technology firm Plaid, arguing that Visa intended to stamp out a nascent rival. In that suit, the Justice Department said that Visa already had "a decisive market position through its online debit monopoly, and would unlawfully extend that advantage by acquiring Plaid."
Visa and Plaid abandoned their deal two months later.
Federal antitrust regulators have scrutinized Mastercard, too, over allegations that it has illegally suppressed competing debit payment networks. Visa and Mastercard together dominate the payments industry and have fought allegations that they maintain a duopoly. Last year, the Federal Trade Commission reached an agreement with Mastercard that requires the company to share customer account information with competing networks and allow merchants to choose between rival networks.
The Justice Department has not yet decided what it will require from Visa to resolve the lawsuit, said a senior Justice Department official, who was not authorized to speak publicly. Analysts at Wells Fargo said they believed the review "will play out over a long period of time," adding that "often these situations get resolved with manageable mitigation."
Shares of Visa fell more than 5 percent on Tuesday, their steepest daily decline this year.
The lawsuit comes amid a broader focus by regulators on the finance industry. This month, the board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation voted in favor of putting in place more stringent guidelines for evaluating bank deals. The same day, the Justice Department announced it was withdrawing from a framework established in 1995 that had guided how it had evaluated deals. The move will most likely toughen its scrutiny of banking mergers.
These actions in tandem send mixed signals about how officials will handle Capital One's pending $ 35.3 billion acquisition of Discover Financial Services, which banking regulators are currently reviewing. On the one hand, they could signify intense scrutiny of the industry by regulators. On the other, the lawsuit against Visa could draw attention to an argument made by Capital One and Discover that merging would create a stronger competitor to Visa and Mastercard.
The Biden administration recently faced a setback when a move by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to cap late fees on credit card payments at $ 8 a month was temporarily blocked by a federal judge. Last week, former President Donald J. Trump revived the debate by proposing a cap on credit card interest rates.
In their crackdown on corporate intermediaries and "junk fees," President Biden's antitrust enforcers have also taken on companies including Live Nation Entertainment, which owns Ticketmaster, and RealPage, a maker of property management software.
Photograph The lawsuit stems from a sweeping investigation dating back years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Antitrust; Consumers; Banking industry; Attorneys general; Bank technology; Monopolies; Market positioning; Litigation; Competition; Interchange rates; Debit cards

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Consumers Banking industry Bank technology Monopolies Market positioning Interchange rate s Debit cards

Location: United States--US

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Capital One Financial Corp; NAICS: 522210, 522291, 551111; Name: Visa Inc; NAICS: 522210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/24/business/dealbook/visa-antitrust-lawsuit-debit-cards.html

Title: Government Accuses Visa Of Monopoly In Debit Use:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 25, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3108887938

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/government-accuses-visa-monopoly-debit-use/docview/3108887938/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tech Start-Ups Innovate to Snuff Out Mega-Wildfires: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Fernholz, Tim; Bates, Ian C

Publication info: Fernholz, Tim; Bates, Ian C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-start-ups-innovate-snuff-out-mega-wildfires/docview/3099220396/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: How some high-tech entrepreneurs are trying to use new forms of technology to solve the problem of mega-wildfires in the age of climate change.
This is the tinder box of the Sierra Nevada. It's early June, the temperature is 97 degrees Fahrenheit and the air shimmers over dead trees choked in brush. In the Stanislaus National Forest, logging roads wind through firs and ponderosa pines, past 20-foot-tall burn piles -- tons of scrap wood not worth bringing to a sawmill. They've been assembled by workers on the front line of the fight against forest fires: a timber crew thinning these woods for the U.S. Forest Service and a tech start-up that's trying to automate the enormous machines the crew relies on.
They are called skidders: 10-foot-tall vehicles, on four massive wheels, with a bulldozer-like blade on the front and a tree-size grapple dangling from the back. They are the worker bees, hauling downed logs from the forest to landing sites where they are delimbed and loaded onto trucks bound for the sawmill. Usually, a single driver operates them for a 12-hour shift, grabbing logs from behind and then driving forward.
Engineers at the Sonora, Calif., start-up Kodama Systems, a forest management company, have hacked into a skidder built by Caterpillar, studded it with cameras and radar and plugged it into the internet. The result is a remote-controlled machine that does scut work for a timber crew and teaches itself to operate semiautonomously, using LiDar -- or light detection and ranging -- to map the forest.
Kodama has raised $ 6.6 million for a business that is driven by the reality that much of our forest land these days is stuffed with fuel just waiting to ignite. A few hundred miles from Stanislaus, a man drove a flaming car into a ditch in early August and started the Park Fire, which burned an area larger than the city of Los Angeles.
What happens if you set a region full of technology entrepreneurs and investors on fire? They start companies. Dozens of start-ups, backed by climate-minded investors with more than $ 200 million in capital, are developing technology designed to tackle a fundamental challenge of the warming world.
The Kodama founder Merritt Jenkins was an engineer looking for a problem to solve when he moved out to Twain Harte two years ago to understand the timber industry. (The town is named after Mark Twain, who said he accidentally ignited his own Sierra timber claim in the 1860s.)
For years, the response to wildfires was simple: Put them out. But this strategy has unnaturally stockpiled biomass -- a catchall term for trees, brush and grass -- in California forests. In recent decades, foresters and firefighters have realized that battling wildfires requires "treating" their fuel in advance: thinning forests and underbrush with mechanical tools and controlled -- or prescribed -- burns, a practice long advocated by Indigenous communities. "There's been a huge leap in the last five years," said the Stanford conservationist Esther Cole Adelsheim.
There's just one problem: "There aren't enough hands," said Kate Dargan, a former CalFire chief and entrepreneur who now works on wildfire resilience for the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation. "This is not a high-paying industry, it's a hot, dirty, hard industry ... where technology can help assist human production capability, it's really important."
If Kodama's vehicles work as planned, they could multiply existing efforts -- the near-term plan is to allow one operator to drive two skidders at once, and to run a second shift at night. In June, Mr. Jenkins showed me how to operate the skidder from an employee's home miles from the logging site; weeks later, he said he ran it from London.
Start-Ups Addressing Climate Change
Bill Clerico is trying to make firetech happen. In 2008, he was a founder of the payments app WePay as a Boston College student, and sold it to JPMorgan Chase in 2017 for about $ 350 million. He used some of the spoils to buy a home in the redwood forests of Mendocino County -- and, with the 2018 Peach fire, was given a rude introduction to wildfires. In the smoldering year of 2020, Mr. Clerico volunteered with the local fire department, directing traffic in the woods and mulling investments in technology to respond to climate-change-amplified infernos.
The complexity of the problem reminded him of the early days of fintech, in which government rules and entrenched banks scared off many entrepreneurs -- until early entrants like his firm and bigger rivals like PayPal and Block carved out multibillion-dollar businesses.
In 2022, Mr. Clerico and his partners founded Convective Capital in San Francisco, raising $ 35 million to back start-ups, often alongside funds focused more broadly on climate tech writ large: artificial intelligence-enabled cameras to spot wildfires (Pano), and autonomous helicopters to quench them (Rain); satellites and drones to monitor forests and weather (Overstory, Treeswift); and even software to help people fireproof their homes (Fire Aside).
For Mr. Clerico, the sheer size of the wildfire problem is an incentive for tackling it.
To wit: In 2022, the U.S. Forest Service set a target for 50 million acres to be treated -- thinned, pruned or burned -- on public and private lands over the next decade. In 2023, 4.3 million were treated, including two million acres of prescribed burning -- and that was a record. To keep pace, treatment would need to grow by a third this year.
On another hot June afternoon, a different robot is torching the grasslands near a giant satellite dish on the Palo Alto campus of Stanford University. Four certified wildland firefighters operate BurnBot -- perhaps best described as a giant, upside-down propane grill: Inside a metal box on treads, a dozen jets blast flames at the ground, generating temperatures near 500 degrees Fahrenheit.
An autonomous tractor pulls the box steadily along the hillside, leaving behind the smell of cap-guns and a five-foot ribbon of charred ground, pounded flat by the machine's cylindrical dampers and steaming from a steady spray of water. Alongside a highway, this protective line could prevent ignition caused by passing cars; checkerboarding a large stretch of land, it could allow for controlled burns that normally require dozens or hundreds of people and ideal weather conditions.
The CalFire chief Jim McDougald, who works on fuel reduction efforts across the state, said firebreaks like these gave his firefighters time to protect the community of Shaver Lake during the rampaging 2020 Creek fire. "We were able to get in there and fire along Highway 168 and just burn back to that ridge," he said.
BurnBot is the brainchild of the C.E.O. Anukool Lakhina, who previously founded and sold a data start-up, Guavus. In 2018, when the Camp fire blanketed the Bay Area in smoke, he scrambled to find air purifiers so that his 6-year-old daughter could have clean air. He also realized the problem could offer an opportunity. After failing to gain traction with an idea of using sound waves to suppress fire, he and his co-founder, Lee Haddad, turned to controlled burns. Soon, they had a shoebox-size robot igniting patches in Dr. Lakhina's San Jose backyard, proving that useful fire could be contained.
Now, backed by $ 20 million in venture capital funding from firms including Convective, and $ 30 million in contracts for fuel treatment, BurnBot is pushing its machines into the field. The company plans to treat 3,000 acres this year (not just burning; it also builds automated masticators that chew up grasses and brush). By the end of 2025, it hopes to have 15 BurnBots in the field.
Looking to Washington for Support
Putting giant robots to work in the woods is just part of the job for tech C.E.O.s; they also have to persuade the public sector to support new markets and buy new products.
Megafire Action, an advocacy group with close links to firetech entrepreneurs, organized a July delegation to Washington, D.C., that included Mr. Clerico. The organization's chairman emeritus, another of Convective's partners, is George Whitesides, the Democratic nominee for Congress in a district north of Los Angeles, where a wildfire consumed 15,563 acres earlier this year.
"There's a growing recognition that we're not currently on track to get the job done," Matt Weiner, the C.E.O. of Megafire Action, said after pitching Democratic and Republican officials on the sector's solutions. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act directed billions to wildfire adaptation, but, in the coming years, that surge of funding will slow, and these businesses will need to become sustainable.
Kodama's mode of fuel treatment is essentially logging, but much of the biomass being removed doesn't have a market. Timber industry figures say that California's environmental rules make products like paper and particle board too costly to produce, while environmental groups criticize biomass power plants that burn wood scraps. Kodama is experimenting with a plan to bury felled timber, storing its carbon over the long term and selling credits against it to organizations like Frontier, the carbon market funded by Stripe.
The private sector also needs to step up, these entrepreneurs argue. "We should think about new business models," Dr. Lakhina said. "I think the insurance carriers have a role to play in financing or catalyzing at least maintenance treatments. If it's reducing risk, that's allowing them to underwrite more properties at a better margin."
Turning Megafires Against Themselves
"Water! I need water!" shouts Cody Chiverton, a former firefighter who is BurnBot's R & D operations manager. The fire-breathing robot he's overseeing has become stuck driving up a steep hill. In its struggle to advance, flames spill from the burn chamber and lick at the open grass. In moments, the BurnBot team has it doused. This version of the vehicle can lose traction on steep slopes, but the next iteration has a redesigned tow hitch to solve the problem. The vehicle has, in a few hours, "punched in" hundreds of yards of firebreak alongside the trail.
Earlier that month in the Stanislaus National Forest, Kodama's skidder cut its own trail, shoving logs into burn piles as its crew watched temperature readings on a screen in a nearby trailer. The head of operations, Joe Lerdal, is a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley, who spent his college summers as a wildland firefighter.
Working on Kodama's autonomous technology in the woods, he is teaching the machine, but learning from the timber crew, six mostly middle-aged men with know-how befitting decades in the forest. They operate their machinery with assurance compared to the slow-moving robot, but say they expect Kodama's machine to improve.
These machines are only the start of firetech's vision -- the bigger aspiration is to use technology to turn megafires against themselves.
Ms. Dargan, the former CalFire chief, envisions a future in which sensors in space and on the ground cue autonomous vehicles to not simply extinguish wildfires but to redirect their fury to benefit the landscape. There isn't much time to get there -- climate scientists believe Western forests will face ever-drier conditions for decades to come.
"It is critical that we burn as much as we can by 2050," she said. After that, it may be too late.
Photograph Top and left, a skidder in the Stanislaus National Forest, clearing woods vulnerable to fast-moving fires. It is outfitted with technology by Kodama Systems, founded by Merritt Jenkins, above right, with Joe Lerdal, above left, overseeing operations. Below, firefighters in the hills above Stanford University operating a BurnBot to flatten and char the ground, creating a fire line. Test burns can be monitored via video transmitted to tablets, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN C. BATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU7.

Subject: Firefighters; Startups; Roads & highways; Biomass energy; Venture capital; Timber industry; Entrepreneurs; Automation; Forest & brush fires; Satellites; Climate change; Prescribed fire; Engineers; High tech industries

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Venture capital Timber industry Entrepreneurs Automation High tech industries

Location: United States--US; California; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: Forest Service-US; NAICS: 924120, 926140

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/30/business/wildfires-startups-silicon-valley.html

Title: Tech Start-Ups Innovate to Snuff Out Mega-Wildfires:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 1, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099220396

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-start-ups-innovate-snuff-out-mega-wildfires/docview/3099220396/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tech Startups Innovate to Snuff Out Wildfires

Author: Fernholz, Tim

Publication info: Fernholz, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-startups-innovate-snuff-out-wildfires/docview/3099138156/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TWAIN HARTE, Calif. —This is the tinderbox of the Sierra Nevada. It’s early June, the temperature is 97 degrees Fahrenheit and the air shimmers over dead trees choked in brush. In the Stanislaus National Forest, logging roads wind through firs and ponderosa pines, past 20-foot-tall burn piles — tons of scrap wood not worth bringing to a sawmill. They’ve been assembled by workers on the front line of the fight against forest fires: a timber crew thinning these woods for the Forest Service and a tech startup that’s trying to automate the enormous machines the crew relies on.
They are called skidders: 10-foot-tall vehicles on four massive wheels, with a bulldozerlike blade on the front and a tree-size grapple dangling from the back. They are the worker bees, hauling downed logs from the forest to landing sites, where they are delimbed and loaded onto trucks bound for the sawmill. Usually, a single driver operates them for a 12-hour shift, grabbing logs from behind and then driving forward.
Engineers at the Sonora, California, startup Kodama Systems, a forest management company, have hacked into a skidder built by Caterpillar, studded it with cameras and radar, and plugged it into the internet. The result is a remote-controlled machine that does scut work for a timber crew and teaches itself to operate semiautonomously, using lidar — or light detection and ranging — to map the forest.
Kodama has raised $6.6 million for a business that is driven by the reality that much of our forestland these days is stuffed with fuel just waiting to ignite. A few hundred miles from Stanislaus, a man drove a flaming car into a ditch in early August and started the Park fire, which burned an area larger than Los Angeles.
What happens if you set a region full of technology entrepreneurs and investors on fire? They start companies. Dozens of startups, backed by climate-minded investors with more than $200 million in capital, are developing technology designed to tackle a fundamental challenge of the warming world.
Kodama founder Merritt Jenkins was an engineer looking for a problem to solve when he moved to Twain Harte, California, two years ago to understand the timber industry. (The town is named in part after Mark Twain, who said he accidentally ignited his own Sierra timber claim in the 1860s.)
For years the response to wildfires was simple: Put them out. But this strategy has unnaturally stockpiled biomass — a catchall term for trees, brush and grass — in California forests. In recent decades, foresters and firefighters have realized that battling wildfires requires “treating” their fuel in advance: thinning forests and underbrush with mechanical tools and controlled — or prescribed — burns, a practice long advocated by Indigenous communities.
“There’s been a huge leap in the last five years,” said Stanford conservationist Esther Cole Adelsheim.
There’s just one problem: “There aren’t enough hands,” said Kate Dargan, a former CalFire chief and entrepreneur who now works on wildfire resilience for the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation. “This is not a high-paying industry, it’s a hot, dirty, hard industry ... where technology can help assist human production capability, it’s really important.”
If Kodama’s vehicles work as planned, they could multiply existing efforts. The near-term plan is to allow one operator to drive two skidders at once, and to run a second shift at night. In June, Jenkins showed how to operate the skidder from an employee’s home miles from the logging site; weeks later, he said he ran it from London.
Startups Addressing Climate Change
Bill Clerico is trying to make fire tech happen. In 2008, he was a founder of the payments app WePay as a Boston College student, and sold it to JPMorgan Chase in 2017 for about $350 million. He used some of the spoils to buy a home in the redwood forests of Mendocino County, and, with the 2018 Peach fire, was given a rude introduction to wildfires. In the smoldering year of 2020, Clerico volunteered with the local fire department, directing traffic in the woods and mulling investments in technology to respond to climate-change-amplified infernos.
The complexity of the problem reminded him of the early days of fintech, when government rules and entrenched banks scared off many entrepreneurs until early entrants like his firm and bigger rivals like PayPal and Block carved out multibillion-dollar businesses.
In 2022, Clerico and his partners founded Convective Capital in San Francisco, raising $35 million to back startups, often alongside funds focused on climate tech writ large: artificial intelligence-enabled cameras to spot wildfires (Pano) and autonomous helicopters to quench them (Rain); satellites and drones to monitor forests and weather (Overstory, Treeswift); and software to help people fireproof their homes (Fire Aside).
For Clerico, the sheer size of the wildfire problem is an incentive for tackling it.
To wit: In 2022, the Forest Service set a target for 50 million acres to be treated — thinned, pruned or burned — on public and private lands over the next decade. In 2023, 4.3 million were treated, including 2 million acres of prescribed burning — and that was a record. To keep pace, treatment would need to grow by a third this year.
On another hot June afternoon, a different robot is torching grasslands near a giant satellite dish on the Palo Alto campus of Stanford University. Four certified wildland firefighters operate BurnBot, perhaps best described as a giant, upside-down propane grill: Inside a metal box on treads, a dozen jets blast flames at the ground, generating temperatures near 500 degrees Fahrenheit.
An autonomous tractor pulls the box steadily along the hillside, leaving behind the smell of cap guns and a 5-foot ribbon of charred ground, pounded flat by the machine’s cylindrical dampers and steaming from a steady spray of water. Alongside a highway, this protective line could prevent ignition caused by passing cars; checkerboarding a large stretch of land, it could allow for controlled burns that normally require dozens or hundreds of people and ideal weather conditions.
CalFire Chief Jim McDougald, who works on fuel reduction efforts across the state, said firebreaks like these gave his firefighters time to protect the community of Shaver Lake during the rampaging 2020 Creek fire.
“We were able to get in there and fire along Highway 168 and just burn back to that ridge,” he said.
BurnBot is the brainchild of CEO Anukool Lakhina, who previously founded and sold a data startup, Guavus. In 2018, when the Camp fire blanketed the Bay Area in smoke, he scrambled to find air purifiers so that his 6-year-old daughter could have clean air. He also realized the problem could offer an opportunity. After failing to gain traction with an idea of using sound waves to suppress fire, he and co-founder Lee Haddad turned to controlled burns. Soon they had a shoebox-size robot igniting patches in Lakhina’s San Jose backyard, proving that useful fire could be contained.
Now backed by $20 million in venture capital funding from firms including Convective, and $30 million in contracts for fuel treatment, BurnBot is pushing its machines into the field. The company plans to treat 3,000 acres this year (not just burning; it also builds automated masticators that chew up grasses and brush). By the end of 2025, it hopes to have 15 BurnBot machines in the field.
Looking to Washington for Support
Putting giant robots to work in the woods is just part of the job for tech CEOs; they also have to persuade the public sector to support new markets and buy new products.
Megafire Action, an advocacy group with close links to fire tech entrepreneurs, organized a July delegation to Washington, D.C., that included Clerico. The organization’s chair emeritus, another of Convective’s partners, is George Whitesides, the Democratic nominee for Congress in a district north of Los Angeles where a wildfire consumed 15,563 acres this year.
“There’s a growing recognition that we’re not currently on track to get the job done,” Matt Weiner, CEO of Megafire Action, said after pitching Democratic and Republican officials on the sector’s solutions. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act directed billions to wildfire adaptation, but in the coming years, that surge of funding will slow, and these businesses will need to become sustainable.
Kodama’s mode of fuel treatment is essentially logging, but much of the biomass being removed doesn’t have a market. Timber industry figures say California’s environmental rules make products like paper and particleboard too costly to produce, while environmental groups criticize biomass power plants that burn wood scraps. Kodama is experimenting with a plan to bury felled timber, storing its carbon over the long term and selling credits against it to organizations like Frontier, the carbon market funded by Stripe.
The private sector also needs to step up, these entrepreneurs argue. “We should think about new business models,” Lakhina said. “I think the insurance carriers have a role to play in financing or catalyzing at least maintenance treatments. If it’s reducing risk, that’s allowing them to underwrite more properties at a better margin.”
Turning Megafires Against Themselves
“Water! I need water!” shouts Cody Chiverton, a former firefighter who is BurnBot’s R & D operations manager. The fire-breathing robot he’s overseeing has become stuck driving up a steep hill. In its struggle to advance, flames spill from the burn chamber and lick at the open grass. In moments, the BurnBot team has it doused. This version of the vehicle can lose traction on steep slopes, but the next iteration has a redesigned tow hitch to solve the problem. The vehicle has, in a few hours, “punched in” hundreds of yards of firebreak alongside the trail.
Earlier, in the Stanislaus National Forest, Kodama’s skidder cut its own trail, shoving logs into burn piles as its crew watched temperature readings on a screen in a nearby trailer. The head of operations, Joe Lerdal, is a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley, who spent his college summers as a wildland firefighter.
Working on Kodama’s autonomous technology in the woods, he is teaching the machine but learning from the timber crew, six mostly middle-aged men with know-how befitting decades in the forest. They operate their machinery with assurance, compared with the slow-moving robot, but say they expect Kodama’s machine to improve.
These machines are only the start of fire tech’s vision; the bigger aspiration is to use technology to turn megafires against themselves.
Dargan, the former CalFire chief, envisions a future in which sensors in space and on the ground cue autonomous vehicles to not simply extinguish wildfires but to redirect their fury to benefit the landscape. There isn’t much time to get there: Climate scientists believe Western forests will face ever-drier conditions for decades to come.
“It is critical that we burn as much as we can by 2050,” she said. After that, it may be too late.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Firefighters; Startups; Roads & highways; Biomass energy; Venture capital; Timber industry; Entrepreneurs; Automation; Forest & brush fires; Satellites; Climate change; Prescribed fire; Engineers

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Venture capital Timber industry Entrepreneurs Automation

Location: United States--US; California; Los Angeles California

Company / organization: Name: Stanislaus National Forest; NAICS: 712190

Identifier / keyword: Nevada; Sensors; Innovation; Environment; Logging Industry; Trees And Shrubs; Global Warming; Wildfires; Law And Legislation; Fires And Firefighters; Conservation Of Resources; Mendocino (Calif); WepayCom; Grass; Western States (Us); Primaries And Caucuses; Banking And Financial Institutions; Stockpiling; National Parks, Monuments And Seashores; Air Pollution; Venture Capital; Lake County (Calif); Jpmorgan Chase & Company; United States; Mobile Applications; Wood And Wood Products; Infrastructure Investment And Jobs Act (2021); California; Robots And Robotics; Mobile Commerce And Payments; San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Satellites; Sierra Nevada Region (Us); Heat And Heat Waves; Los Angeles (Calif); Entrepreneurship; Sonora (Calif); Caterpillar Inc; Drones (Pilotless Planes); Boston College; San Francisco (Calif); Forest Service; Remote Control Systems; Bioenergy And Biofuels; Labor And Jobs; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Stanford University; Palo Alto (Calif); Stanislaus National Forest (Calif); Twain, Mark; Silicon Valley (Calif); Bees; Stripe Inc; Mendocino County (Calif); Washington (Dc); Business; Start Ups; Infrastructure (Public Works); San Jose (Calif); Forests And Forestry; Paypal

Title: Tech Startups Innovate to Snuff Out Wildfires

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 31, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-31T16:43:43Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099138156

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-startups-innovate-snuff-out-wildfires/docview/3099138156/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

To Save Your Country, Scare the Enemy: [Style Desk]

Author: Dowd, Maureen

Publication info: Dowd, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/save-your-country-scare-enemy/docview/3093966996/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Alex Karp never learned to drive.
"I was too poor," he said. "And then I was too rich."
In fact, Mr. Karp, a co-founder and the C.E.O. of Palantir Technologies, the mysterious and powerful data analytics firm, doesn't trust himself to drive. Or ride a bike. Or ski downhill.
"I'm a dreamer," he said. "I'll start dreaming and then I fall over. I started doing tai chi to prevent that. It's really, really helped with focusing on one thing at a time. If you had met me 15 years ago, two-thirds of the conversation, I'd just be dreaming."
What would he dream about?
"Literally, it could be a walk I did five years ago," he said. "It could be some conversation I had in grad school. Could be my family member annoyed me. Something a colleague said, like: 'Why did they say this? What does it actually mean?"'
Mr. Karp is a lean, extremely fit billionaire with unruly salt-and-pepper curls. He is introvert-charming (something I aspire to myself). He has A.D.H.D. and can't hide it if he is not interested in what someone is saying. After a hyper spurt of talking, he loses energy and has to recharge on the stationary bike or by reading. Even though he thinks of himself as different, he seems to like being different. He enjoys being a provocateur onstage and in interviews.
"I'm a Jewish, racially ambiguous dyslexic, so I can say anything," he said, smiling.
Unlike many executives in Silicon Valley, Mr. Karp backed President Biden, cutting him a big check, despite skepticism about his handling of the border and his overreliance on Hollywood elites like Jeffrey Katzenberg. Now he is supporting Vice President Kamala Harris, but he still has vociferous complaints about his party.
When he donates, he said, he does it in multiples of 18 because "it's mystical -- 18 brings good luck in the tradition of kabbalah. I gave Biden $ 360,000."
The 56-year-old is perfectly happy hanging out in a remote woodsy meadow alone -- except for his Norwegian ski instructor, his Swiss-Portuguese chef, his Austrian assistant, his American shooting instructor and his bodyguards. (Mr. Karp, who has never married, once complained that bodyguards crimp your ability to flirt.)
"This is like introverts' heaven," he said, looking at his red barn from the porch of his Austrian-style house with a mezuza on the door. "You can invite people graciously. No one comes."
The house is sparse on furniture, but Mr. Karp still worries that it is too cluttered. "I do have a Spartan thing," he said. "I definitely feel constrained and slightly imprisoned when I have too much stuff around me."
So how did a daydreaming doctoral student in German philosophy wind up leading a shadowy data analytics firm that has become a major American defense contractor, one that works with spy services as it charts the future of autonomous warfare?
He's not a household name, and yet Mr. Karp is at the vanguard of what Mark Milley, the retired general and former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has called "the most significant fundamental change in the character of war ever recorded in history." In this new world, unorthodox Silicon Valley entrepreneurs like Mr. Karp and Elon Musk are woven into the fabric of America's national security.
Mr. Karp is also at the white-hot center of ethical issues about whether firms like Palantir are too Big Brother, with access to so much of our personal data as we sign away our privacy. And he is in the middle of the debate about whether artificial intelligence is friend or foe, whether killer robots and disembodied A.I. will one day turn on us.
Mr. Karp's position is that we're hurtling toward this new world whether we like it or not. Do we want to dominate it, or do we want to be dominated by China?
Critics worry about what happens when weapons are autonomous and humans become superfluous to the killing process. Tech reflects the values of its operators, so what if it falls into the hands of a modern Caligula?
"I think a lot of the issues come back to 'Are we in a dangerous world where you have to invest in these things?"' Mr. Karp told me, as he moved around his living room in a tai chi rhythm, wearing his house shoes, jeans and a tight white T-shirt. "And I come down to yes. All these technologies are dangerous." He adds: "The only solution to stop A.I. abuse is to use A.I."
Inspired by Tolkien
Palantir's name is derived from palantíri, the seeing stones in the J.R.R. Tolkien fantasies. The company's office in Palo Alto, Calif., features "Lord of the Rings" décor and is nicknamed the Shire.
After years under the radar, Mr. Karp is now in the public eye. He has joked that he needs a coach to teach him how to be more normal.
Born in New York and raised outside Philadelphia in a leftist family, Mr. Karp has a Jewish father who was a pediatrician and a Black mother who is an artist. They were social activists who took young Alex to civil rights marches and other protests. His uncle, Gerald D. Jaynes, is an economics and African American studies professor at Yale; his brother, Ben, is an academic who lives in Japan.
"I just think I've always viewed myself as I don't fit in, and I can't really try to," Mr. Karp said. "My parents' background just gave me a primordial subconscious bias that anything that involves 'We fit in together' does not include me.
"Yes, I think the way I explain it politically is like, if fascism comes, I will be the first or second person on the wall."
Mr. Karp has his own unique charisma. "He's one of a kind, to say the least," said the Democratic strategist James Carville, who is an informal adviser to Palantir.
When I visited the Palo Alto office, Mr. Karp accidentally knocked down a visitor while demonstrating a tai chi move. He apologized, then ran off to get a printout of Goethe's "Faust" in German, which he read aloud in an effort to show that it was better than the English translation.
"If you were to do a sitcom on Palantir, it's equal parts Larry David, a philosophy class, tech and James Bond," he said.
Palantir was founded in 2003 by a gang of five, including Karp and his old Stanford Law School classmate Peter Thiel (now the company's chairman). It was backed, in part, by nearly $ 2 million from In-Q-Tel, the C.I.A.'s venture capital arm.
"Saving lives and on occasion taking lives is super interesting," Mr. Karp told me.
He described what his company does as "the finding of hidden things" -- sifting through mountains of data to perceive patterns, including patterns of suspicious or aberrant behavior.
Mr. Karp does not believe in appeasement. "You scare the crap out of your adversaries," he said. He brims with American chauvinism, boasting that we are leagues ahead of China and Russia on software.
"The tech scene in America is like the jazz scene in the 1950s," he said in one forum. He told me: "I'm constantly telling people 86 percent of the top 50 tech companies in the world just by market cap are American -- and people fall out of their chair. It's hard for us to understand how dominant we are in certain industries."
In the wake of 9/11, the C.I.A. bet on Palantir's maw gobbling up data and auguring where the next terrorist attacks would come from. Palantir uses multiple databases to find the bad guy, even, as Mr. Karp put it, "if the bad guy actually works for you."
The company is often credited with helping locate Osama bin Laden so Navy SEALs could kill him, but it's unclear if that is true. As with many topics that came up in the course of our interviews in Washington, Palo Alto and New Hampshire, Mr. Karp zips his lips about whether his company was involved in dispatching the fiend of 9/11.
"If you have a reputation for talking about what the pope says when you meet him," Mr. Karp explained, "you'll never meet the pope again."
He does crow a little about Western civilization's resting on Palantir's slender shoulders, noting that without its software, "you would've had massive terror attacks in Europe already, like Oct. 7 style." And those attacks, he believes, would have propelled the far right to power.
Palantir does not do business with China, Russia or other countries that are opposed to the West. Mr. Thiel said the company tries to work with "more allied" and "less corrupt" governments, noting dryly that aside from their ideological stances, "with corrupt countries, you never get paid."
"We have a consistently pro-Western view that the West has a superior way of living and organizing itself, especially if we live up to our aspirations," Mr. Karp said. "It's interesting how radical that is, considering it's not, in my view, that radical."
He added: "If you believe we should appease Iran, Russia and China by saying we're going to be nicer and nicer and nicer, of course you'll look at Palantir negatively. Some of these places want you to do the apology show for what you believe in, and we don't apologize for what we believe in. I'm not going to apologize for defending the U.S. government on the border, defending the Special Ops, bringing the people home. I'm not apologizing for giving our product to Ukraine or Israel or lots of other places."
As one Karp acquaintance put it: "Alex is principled. You just may not like his principles."
Kara Swisher, the author of "Burn Book: A Tech Love Story," told me: "While Palantir promises a more efficient and cost-effective way to conduct war, should our goal be to make it less expensive, onerous and painful? After all, war is not a video game, nor should it be."
Mr. Karp's friend Diane von Furstenberg told me that he sees himself as Batman, believing in the importance of choosing sides in a parlous world. (The New York office is called Gotham and features a statue and prints of Batman.) But some critics have a darker view, worrying about Palantir creating a "digital kill chain" and seeing Mr. Karp less as a hero than as a villain.
Back in 2016, some Democrats regarded Palantir as ominous because of Mr. Thiel's support for former President Donald J. Trump. Later, conspiracy theories sprang up around the company's role in Operation Warp Speed, the federal effort pushing the Covid-19 vaccine program from clinical trials to jabs in arms.
Some critics focused on Palantir's work at the border, which helped U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement track down undocumented migrants for deportation. In 2019, about 70 demonstrators blocked access to the cafeteria outside the Palo Alto office. "Immigrants are welcome here, time to cancel Palantir," they shouted.
The same year, over 200 Palantir employees, in a letter to Mr. Karp, outlined their concerns about the software that had helped ICE. And there was a campaign inside Palantir -- in vain -- to get him to donate the proceeds of a $ 49 million ICE contract to charity.
I asked Mr. Karp if Mr. Thiel's public embrace of Mr. Trump the first time around had made life easier -- in terms of getting government contracts -- or harder.
"I didn't enjoy it," he said. "There's a lot of reasons I cut Biden a check. I do not enjoy being protested every day. It was completely ludicrous and ridiculous. It was actually the opposite. Because Peter had supported Mr. Trump, it was actually harder to get things done."
Did they talk about it?
"Peter and I talk about everything," Mr. Karp said. "It's like, yes, I definitely informed Peter, 'This is not making our life easier."'
Mr. Thiel did not give money to Mr. Trump or speak at his convention this time around, although he supports JD Vance, his former protégé at his venture capital firm. He said he might get more involved now because of Mr. Vance.
Palantir got its start in intelligence and defense -- it now works with the Space Force -- and has since sprouted across the government through an array of contracts. It helps the I.R.S. to identify tax fraud and the Food and Drug Administration to prevent supply chain disruptions and to get drugs to market quicker.
It has assisted Ukraine and Israel in sifting through seas of data to gather relevant intelligence in their wars -- on how to protect special forces by mapping capabilities, how to safely transport troops and how to target drones and missiles more accurately.
In 2022, Mr. Karp took a secret trip to war-ravaged Kyiv, becoming the first major Western C.E.O. to meet with Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelensky, and offering to supply his country with the technology that would allow it to be David to Russia's Goliath. Time magazine ran a cover on Ukraine as a lab for A.I. warfare, and Palantir operatives embedded with the troops.
While Palantir's role in helping Ukraine was heralded, its work with Israel, where targeting is more treacherous, because the enemy is parasitically entangled with civilians, is far more controversial.
"I think there's a huge dichotomy between how the elite sees Ukraine and Israel," Mr. Karp said. "If you go into any elite circle, pushing back against Russia is obvious, and Israel is complicated. If you go outside elite circles, it's exactly the opposite."
Independent analysts have said that Israel, during an April operation, could not have shot down scores of Iranian missiles and drones in mere minutes without Palantir's tech. But Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's scorched-earth campaign in Gaza, the starving and orphaned children and the deaths of tens of thousands of civilians have drawn outrage, including some aimed at Mr. Karp and Mr. Thiel.
In May, protesters trapped Mr. Thiel inside a student building at the University of Cambridge. In recent days, senior U.S. officials have expressed doubts about Israel's conduct of the war.
Mr. Karp's position on backing Israel is adamantine. The company took out a full-page ad in The New York Times last year stating that "Palantir stands with Israel."
"It's like we have a double standard on Israel," he told me. If the Oct. 7 attack had happened in America, he said, we would turn the hiding place of our enemies "into a parking lot. There would be no more tunnels."
As Mr. Karp told CNBC in March: "We've lost employees. I'm sure we'll lose more employees. If you have a position that does not cost you ever to lose an employee, it's not a position."
He told me, "If you believe that the West should lose and you believe that the only way to defend yourself is always with words and not with actions, you should be skeptical of us."
He added: "I always think it's hard because where the critics are right is what we do is morally complex. If you're supporting the West with products that are used at war, you can't pretend that there's a simple answer."
Does he have any qualms about what his company does?
"I'd have many more qualms if I thought our adversaries were committed to anything like the rule of law," he said, adding: "A lot of this does come down to, do you think America is a beacon of good or not? I think a lot of the critics, what they actually believe is America is not a force for good." His feeling is this: "Without being Pollyannaish, idiotic or pretending like any country's been perfect or there's not injustice, at the margin, would you want a world where America is stronger, healthy and more powerful, or not?"
Asked about the impending TikTok ban, he said he's "very in favor."
"I do not think you should allow an adversary to control an algorithm that is specifically designed to make us slower, more divided and arguably less cognitively fit," he said.
He considered the anti-Israel demonstrations such "an infection inside society," reflecting "a pagan religion of mediocrity and discrimination and intolerance, and violence," that he offered 180 jobs to students who were fearful of staying in college because of a spike in antisemitism on campuses.
"Palantir is a much better diploma," he told me. "Honestly, it's helping us, because there are very talented people at the Ivy League, and they're like, 'Get me out of here!"'
Mr. Karp sometimes gets emotional in his defense of Palantir. In June, when he received an award named in honor of Dwight Eisenhower at a D.C. gala for national security executives, he teared up. He said that when he lived in Germany, he often thought about the young men from Iowa and Kansas who risked their lives "to free people like me" during World War II. He said he was honored to receive an award named after the president who had integrated schools by force.
Claiming that his products "changed the course of history by stopping terror attacks," Mr. Karp said that Palantir had also "protected our men and women on the battlefield" and "taken the lives of our enemies, and I don't think that's something to be ashamed of."
He told the gala audience about being "yelled at" by people who "call themselves progressives."
"I actually am a progressive," he said. "I want less war. You only stop war by having the best technology and by scaring the bejabers -- I'm trying to be nice here -- out of our adversaries. If they are not scared, they don't wake up scared, they don't go to bed scared, they don't fear that the wrath of America will come down on them, they will attack us. They will attack us everywhere."
He added that "we in the corporate world" have "to grow a spine" on issues like the Ivy League protesters: "If we do not win the battle of ideas and reassert basic norms and the basic, obvious idea that America is a noble, great, wonderful aspiration of a dream that we are blessed to be part of, we will have a much, much worse world for all of us."
How It Started
The wild origin story of Palantir plays like a spy satire.
After graduating from Haverford College, Mr. Karp went to Stanford Law School, which he called "the worst three years of my adult life."
He wasn't interested in his classmates' obsession with landing prestigious jobs at top law firms. "I learned at law school that I cannot do something I do not believe in," he said, "even if it's just turning a wrench."
He met Mr. Thiel, a fellow student, and they immediately hit it off, trash-talking law school and, over beers, debating socialism vs. capitalism. "We argued like feral animals," Mr. Karp told Michael Steinberger in a New York Times Magazine piece.
The liberal Heidegger fan and the conservative René Girard fan made strange bedfellows, but that's probably what drew them together.
"I think we bonded on this intellectual level where he was this crazy leftist and I was this crazy right-wing person," Mr. Thiel told me, "but we somehow talked to each other."
"Alex did the Ph.D. thing," he continued, "which was, in some ways, a very, very insane thing to do after law school, but I was positive on it, because it sounded more interesting than working at a law firm."
Mr. Karp received his doctorate in neoclassical social theory from Goethe University Frankfurt. He reconnected with Mr. Thiel in 2002, while working at the Jewish Philanthropy Partnership in San Francisco. The two began doing "vague brainstorming," as Mr. Thiel put it, about a business they could start.
Mr. Thiel thought he could figure out how to find terrorists by using some of the paradigms developed at PayPal, which he helped found, to uncover patterns of fraud.
"I was just always super annoyed when, every time you go to the airport, you had to take off a shoe or you had to go through all this security theater, which was both somewhat taxing but probably had very little to do with actual security," Mr. Thiel said.
They brought in some software engineers.
"It was two and a half years after 9/11, and you're starting a software company with people who know nothing about the C.I.A. or any of these organizations," Mr. Thiel recalled.
It was all very cloak-and-dagger, in an Inspector Clouseau way. They decided to seek out John Poindexter, a retired rear admiral who was dubbed the godfather of modern surveillance; Admiral Poindexter had been forced to resign as President Ronald Reagan's national security adviser after the Iran-Contra scandal broke. After 9/11, he worked at the Pentagon on a surveillance program called Total Information Awareness.
During the meeting, Mr. Thiel said he felt he was in the presence of a medal-festooned, Machiavelli-loving member of the military brass out of "Dr. Strangelove," with "a LARPing vibe."
"We had a hunch that there was a room marked 'Super-Duper Computer,' and if you went inside, it was just an empty room," Mr. Thiel said. They feared their budding algorithm "would end up in a broom closet in the Pentagon," so they moved on.
In 2005, Mr. Thiel asked Mr. Karp to be the frontman of a company with few employees, no contracts, no investors, no office and no functional tech. "It charitably could have been described as a work in progress," Mr. Thiel said.
Mr. Karp and his motley crew got a bunch of desks and explained to clients that they were unmanned because the (fictional) engineers were coming in later.
"God knows why Peter picked me as co-founder," said Mr. Karp, who had to learn about coding on the job. "It was, in all modesty, a very good choice."
Mr. Thiel explained: "In some ways, Alex doesn't look like a salesperson from central casting you would send to the C.I.A. The formulation I always have is that if you're trying to sell something to somebody, the basic paradox is you have to be just like them, so they can trust you -- but you have to be very different from them so that they think you have something they don't have."
He said that Mr. Karp would not be suited to running Airbnb or Uber "or some mass consumer product." But Palantir, he said, "is connected with this great set of geopolitical questions about the Western world versus the rising authoritarian powers. So if we can get our governments to function somewhat better, it's a way to rebalance things in the direction of the West."
"Normally," Mr. Thiel continued, "these are bad ideas to have as a company. They're too abstract, too idealistic. But I think something like this was necessary in the Palantir case. If you didn't get some energy from thinking about these things, man, we would've sold the company after three years."
Mr. Karp could not have been more of an outsider, to Silicon Valley and to Washington. He and his engineers had to buy suits for their visits to the capital. "We had no believers," he said. "I kept telling Palantirians to call me Alex, and they kept calling me Dr. Karp. Then I realized the only thing they could believe in was that I had a Ph.D."
The first few years, when tech investors were more interested in programs that let you play games on your phone, were rough. "We were like pariahs," Mr. Karp said. "We couldn't get meetings. If they did, it was a favor to Peter."
With administrators in Washington, Mr. Karp recalled: "It was like, What is this Frankenstein monster doing in my office, making these wild claims that he can do better on things I have a huge budget for? How can it be that a freak-show motley crew of 12-year-old-looking mostly dudes, led by a pretty unique figure, from their perspective, would be able to do something with 1 percent of the money that we can't do with billions and billions of dollars?"
"There's nothing that we did at Palantir in building our software company that's in any M.B.A.-made playbook," Mr. Karp said. "Not one. That's why we have been doing so well."
He said that "the single most valuable education I had for business was sitting at the Sigmund Freud Institute, because I spent all my time with analysts." When he worked at the institute in Frankfurt while getting his doctorate, Mr. Karp said, he would smoke cigars and think about "the conscious subconscious."
"You'd be surprised how much analysts talk about their patients," he said. "It's disconcerting, actually. You just learn so much about how humans actually think." This knowledge helps him motivate his engineers, he said.
How It's Going
Mr. Karp said he likes to think of Palantir's workers as part of an artists' colony or a family; he doesn't use the word "staff." He enjoys interviewing prospective employees personally and prides himself on making hires in under two minutes. (He likes to have a few people around who can talk philosophy and literature with him, in German and French.)
"A lot of my populist-left politics actually bleed into my hiring stuff," he said. "If you ask the question that the Stanford, Harvard, Yale person has answered a thousand times, all you're learning is that the Stanford, Harvard, Yale person has learned to play the game."
Even if he gets a good answer from a "privileged" candidate and a bad answer from "the child of a mechanic," he might prefer the latter if "I have that feeling like I'm in the presence of talent."
He views Palantirians like the Goonies, underdogs winning in the end. "Most people at Palantir didn't get to do a lot of winning in high school," Mr. Karp said at a company gathering in Palo Alto, to laughter from the audience.
He thinks the United States is "very likely" to end up in a three-front war with China, Russia and Iran. So, he argues, we have to keep going full-tilt on autonomous weapons systems, because our adversaries will -- and they don't have the same moral considerations that we do.
"I think we're in an age when nuclear deterrent is actually less effective because the West is very unlikely to use anything like a nuclear bomb, whereas our adversaries might," he said. "Where you have technological parity but moral disparity, the actual disparity is much greater than people think."
"In fact," he added, "given that we have parity technologically but we don't have parity morally, they have a huge advantage."
Mr. Karp said that we are "very close" to terminator robots and at the threshold of "somewhat autonomous drones and devices like this being the most important instruments of war. You already see this in Ukraine."
Palantir has learned from some early setbacks.
In 2011, the hacker group Anonymous showed that Palantir employees were involved in a proposed misinformation campaign to discredit WikiLeaks and smear some of its supporters, including the journalist Glenn Greenwald. (Mr. Karp apologized to Mr. Greenwald.) Then, at least one Palantir employee helped Cambridge Analytica collect the Facebook data that the Trump campaign used ahead of the 2016 election.
A pro bono contract with the New Orleans Police Department starting in 2012 was dropped after six years amid criticism that its "predictive policing" eroded privacy and had a disparate impact on people of color.
"We reduced the rates of Black-on-Black death in New Orleans," Mr. Karp said, "and we have these critics who are like, 'Palantir is racist.' I don't know. The hundreds of people that are alive now don't think we're racist."
Mr. Carville, a New Orleans pooh-bah, asserted that the partnership ended because of "left-wing conspiracy theories."
Palantir's rough start in Silicon Valley came about, in part, because many objected to its work with the Department of Defense.
In 2017, Google won a Pentagon contract, Project Maven, to help the military use the company's A.I. to analyze footage from drones. Employees protested, sending a letter to the C.E.O., Sundar Pichai: "Google should not be in the business of war," it read. Soon after, Google backed away from the project.
In response, Palantir shaded Google in a tweet that quoted Mr. Karp: "Silicon Valley is telling the average American 'I will not support your defense needs' while selling products that are adversarial to America. That is a loser position." Palantir picked up the contract in 2019.
That same year, Mr. Thiel said that Google had a "treasonous" relationship with China. When Google opened an A.I. lab in 2017 in China, where there's little distinction between the civilian and the military, he argued, it was de facto helping China while refusing to help America. (That lab closed in 2019, but Google still does business with China, as does Apple.)
"When you have people working at consumer internet companies protesting us because we help the Navy SEALs and the U.S. military and were pro-border -- and you're becoming incredibly, mind-bogglingly rich, in part because America protects your right to export -- to me, you've lost the sheet of music," Mr. Karp said. "I don't think that's good for America."
Scott Galloway, a professor at New York University and an authority on tech companies, agrees that many Silicon Valley C.E.O.s have been virtue-signaling and pretending to care about the progressive political views of employees, but really would sell "their mother for a nickel."
"They're not there to save the whales," Mr. Galloway said. "They're there to make money."
He added: "Some of these big tech companies seem to be engaged in raising a generation of business leaders that just don't like America, who are very focused on everything that's wrong with America.
"Alex Karp is like, 'No, we'll cash the Pentagon's check and we'll collect data on our enemies.' He's gone the entirely opposite way, and I think it was a smart move."
Palantir's "spooky connotations," as one executive put it, dissipated quite a bit when the company went public in 2020 and took on more commercial business; its clients include Airbus, J.P. Morgan, IBM and Amazon.
Mr. Thiel said that while Palantir had a brief stint working on a pilot program for the National Security Agency, the company would not want to do any more work there: "The N.S.A., it hoovers up all the data in the world. As far as I can tell, there are incredible civil liberties violations where they're spying on everybody outside the U.S., basically. Then they're fortunately too incompetent to do much with the data."
The company has started turning a profit, and the stock has climbed. After a triumphant earnings report this month, Palantir's stock price jumped again.
"The share price gives us more street cred," Mr. Karp said.
In 2020, after 17 years in Silicon Valley, Mr. Karp moved Palantir's headquarters to Denver. "I was fleeing Silicon Valley because of what I viewed as the regressive side of progressive politics," he said.
He thinks that the valley has intensified class divisions in America.
"I don't believe you would have a Trump phenomenon without the excesses of Silicon Valley," he said. "Very, very wealthy people who support policies where they don't have to absorb the cost at all. Just also the general feeling that these people are not tethered to our society, and simultaneously are becoming billionaires."
"Not supporting the U.S. military," he said, in a tone of wonder. "I don't even know how you explain to the average American that you've become a multibillionaire and you won't supply your product to the D.O.D. It's jarringly corrosive. That's before you get to all the corrosive, divisive things that are on these platforms."
Akshay Krishnaswamy, Palantir's chief architect, agreed on their Silicon Valley critics: "You live in the liberal democratic West because of reasons, and those reasons don't come for free. They act like it doesn't have to be fought for or defended rigorously."
Mr. Karp said things had evolved. "I think there's a different perception of us now a little bit. A lot of that was tied to Trump, ICE work. It built up and we were definitely outsiders. We're still outsiders, but I feel less resistance for sure. And people have a better idea of what we do, maybe." He added, "Defense tech is a big part of Silicon Valley now."
The A.I. revolution, he said, will come with a knotty question: "How do you make sure the society's fair when the means of production have become means that only 1 percent of the population actually knows how to navigate?"
I asked if he agrees with Elon Musk that A.I. is eventually going to take everyone's jobs.
"I think what's actually dangerous," Mr. Karp replied, "is that people who understand how to use this are going to capture a lot of the value of the market and everyone else is going to feel left behind."
Mr. Karp's iconoclastic style and ironclad beliefs have inspired memes and attracted a flock of online acolytes -- some call him Papa Karp or Daddy Karp. He has no social media presence, but his online fans treat him like a mystic, obsessing over the tight white T-shirts he wears for earnings reports, his Norwegian ski outfits, his corkscrew hair, his Italian jeans and sunglasses and his extreme candor. (In a recent earnings report, Mr. Karp dismissed his rivals as "self-pleasuring" and engaging in "self-flagellation.")
He is not, as one colleague puts it, "a wife, kids and dog person."
"I tend to have long-term relationships," he told me. "And I tend to end up with very high IQ women," including some who tell him he's talking nonsense.
He prefers what he calls a German attitude toward relationships, where "you have a much greater degree of privacy," he said, with separate bedrooms and "your own world, your own thoughts, and you get to be alone a lot." There is much less requirement to "micro-lie" about where you were or whom you were with.
I asked Mr. Karp about his 2013 quote to Forbes that "the only time I'm not thinking about Palantir is when I'm swimming, practicing qigong or during sexual activity."
He frowned, noting: "It should be tai chi. I don't know why people always conflate tai chi with qigong. Yes, that was in my early days, when we were a pre-public company and I was allowed to admit I had sexual activity."
So it's true that the notion of settling down and raising a family gives him hives?
"There's some truth in that," he said. "This is how I like to live. See, I'm sitting here doing my freedom thing. I train. I do distance shooting." He reads. "Who else has a Len Deighton spy novel next to a book on Confucian philosophy?"
Many of the doyennes of Washington society would love to snag the eligible Mr. Karp for a dinner party. He told me he has "a great social life." But when I asked him what that is, he replied, "First of all, I'm a cross-country skier, so then I do all this training."
He continued, "To have an elite VO2 max, an elite level of strength, it's just consistency and the Norwegian-style training method."
Some who know Mr. Karp said that the happiest they had ever seen him was last year when Mike Allen reported for Axios that the C.E.O.'s body fat was an impressive 7 percent.
Mr. Karp may be able to do more than 20 miles of cross-country skiing without being out of breath, but there are some sports at which, he admitted, he's "a complete zero. For example, ball sports. I really suck at them."
Unlike Mr. Musk and other tech lords, Mr. Karp is not into micro-dosing ketamine or any other drug. "My drug is athletics," he said. "I love drinking, but now I've moved to drinking very little because what I've noticed is if you're traveling all the time, the alcohol, it really affects your brain." He's on the road about 240 days a year.
Mr. Karp said of his dyslexia: "I think this is not getting less, it's likely getting more. In 40 years, I'll be unable to read."
In New Hampshire, we had a lunch of lobster pasta -- he kept his panic button on the table -- and then went shooting on his property. He expertly hit targets with a 9-millimeter pistol from 264 yards. When an aide suggested that a photographer not shoot Mr. Karp in the act of shooting, he overruled the idea.
"Actually, honestly, guns would be much better regulated if you had someone who knows guns," he said. "I'm not a hunter. I'm an artist with a gun."
(Later, Mr. Karp pointed out that he had been shooting at targets that were about twice as far from him as Mr. Trump was from his would-be assassin. "There's something really wrong with security for our future president, or maybe not future president," he said. "All these people need a different level of security.")
Mr. Karp believes the Democrats need to project more strength: "Are we tough enough to scare our adversaries so we don't go to war? Do the Chinese, Russians and Persians think we're strong? The president needs to tell them if you cross these lines, this is what we're going to do, and you have to then enforce it."
He thinks that in America and in Europe, the inability or unwillingness to secure borders fuels authoritarianism.
"I see it as pretty simple: You have an open border, you get the far right," he said. "And once you get them, you can't get rid of them. We saw it in Brexit, we see it with Le Pen in France, you see it across Europe. Now you see it in Germany."
"They should be much stricter," he continued. That, he said, "is the only reason we have the rise of the right, the only reason. When people tell you we need an open border, then they should also tell you why they're electing right-wing politicians, because they are."
"The biggest mistake -- and it's not one politician, it's a generation -- was believing there was something bigoted about having a border, and there are just a lot of people who believe that," he said.
Weeks later, we were back in the Washington office, which is dubbed Rivendell, after a valley in Tolkien's Middle-earth, and is filled with tech goodies like a Ping-Pong table, a pool table and a towering replica of Chewbacca.
We picked up our conversation about politics, talking about the swap of President Biden and Vice President Harris, the rise of JD Vance, the assassination attempt and the changed political landscape.
Mr. Karp concurred with his friend Mr. Carville on the problem of drawing men to the Democratic Party, saying, "If this is going to be a party complaining about guys and to guys all the time, it's not going to succeed."
He continued: "The biggest problem with hard political correctness is it makes it impossible to deal with unfortunate facts. The unfortunate fact here is that this election is really going to turn on 'What percentage of males can the Democrats still get?"'
Describing himself as "progressive but not woke," he said, "We are so unwilling to talk to the actual constituents that are voting for the Democratic Party who would probably strongly prefer policies that are more moderate."
Given Mr. Karp's blended racial identity, I wondered how he felt about Mr. Trump's attack on the vice president's heritage.
"I think people are most fascinated by the fact of this whole Black-Jewish thing," he said. "I tend to be less fascinated by that."
He added: "I think that people always expect me somehow to see the world in one way or another, and I don't really understand what that means. I see the world the way I see it. I think, at the end of the day, if people want to choose what their identity is, then they choose it, and that's their definition."
I note that he recently made an elite list of Black billionaires.
He shrugged. "Some Black people think I'm Black, some don't," he said. "I view me as me. And I'm very honored to be honored by all groups that will have me."
He added: "I do not believe racism is the most important issue in this country. I think class is determinate, and I'm mystified by how often we talk about race. I'm not saying it doesn't exist. I'm not saying people don't have biases. Of course, we all do, but the primary thing that's bad for you in this culture is to be born poor of any color."
He said he would support class-based affirmative action and declared himself "pro draft."
"I think part of the reason we have a massive cleavage in our culture is, at the end of the day, by and large, only people who are middle- and working-class do all the fighting," he said.
Since I had last seen him, Mr. Karp had gotten caught between two of the battling billionaires of Silicon Valley, lords of the cloud vituperously fighting in public over the possible restoration of Donald Trump.
According to an account in Puck, Mr. Karp was onstage with the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman at a conference last month in Sun Valley, Idaho, sponsored by the investment bank Allen & Company, when Mr. Hoffman called Mr. Thiel's support for Mr. Trump "a moral issue." Speaking up from his seat in the audience, Mr. Thiel sarcastically thanked Mr. Hoffman for funding lawsuits against Mr. Trump, which allowed the candidate to claim that he is "a martyr."
Mr. Hoffman snapped back, "Yeah, I wish I had made him an actual martyr" -- an unfortunate comment given what would later happen in Butler, Pa.
I asked Mr. Karp whether the encounter was as uncomfortable as it seemed.
"Well, I'm used to being uncomfortable," he said. "I'm going to stick with my friends. I just feel the same way I always feel when Peter is under attack, which is: 'This is my friend. I feel that my friend is being attacked, and I will defend him."'
The fancy digital clock behind Mr. Karp's desk, which tells time in German, had gone from "Es ist zehn nach drei" to "Es ist halb vier."
It was time to go.
Confirm or Deny
Maureen Dowd: You run the Twitter account Alex Karp's Hair.
Alex Karp: I wish.
Your favorite movie is the classic kung fu flick "The 36th Chamber of Shaolin."
One of my favorite movies.
You have 10 houses around the world, from Alaska to Vermont, from Norway to New Hampshire.
You have to reframe that as I have 10 cross-country ski huts.
You love the idea of Peter Thiel backing Olympic-style games where the athletes will dope out in the open.
Deny. I want the best cross-country skiers to win without doping.
You love to watch spy shows and German movies, and one of your favorite filmmakers is Rainer Werner Fassbinder.
Confirm.
You have 20 identical pairs of swim goggles in your office.
No longer. I used to. I gave up swimming. There's an emptiness to it.
You commissioned a French comic book, "Palantir: L'Indépendance," with yourself as the protagonist.
Oui!
You starred in a movie by Hanna Laura Klar in 1998, "I Have Two Faces," where you looked like a young Woody Allen.
I look better than Woody Allen.
Your dissertation is about how people transmit aggression subconsciously in language, presaging the rise of the right in America and Europe.
Often, the more charismatic ideologies were, the more irrational they were.
The dissertation touched on expressing taboo wishes. Do you want to share some of those?
I would love to express taboo wishes with you, but not to your audience.
Photograph Top left and right, Alex Karp at home practicing tai chi. Left, a Ukrainian government handout image of Mr. Karp in 2022 with Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelensky, left, and Mykhailo Fedorov, at the time a deputy prime minister, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN DAVID BROWN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE); Center, Alex Karp doing target practice on his property. Right, a protest in 2019 outside the office of Palantir Technologies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN DAVID BROWN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (ST10-ST11) This article appeared in print on page ST10, ST11.

Subject: Software; Data analysis; September 11 terrorist attacks-2001

Location: China; Silicon Valley-California; Russia; United States--US; Palo Alto California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/17/style/alex-karp-palantir.html

Title: To Save Your Country, Scare the Enemy:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 18, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3093966996

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/save-your-country-scare-enemy/docview/3093966996/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Alex Karp Has Money and Power. So What Does He Want?

Author: Dowd, Maureen

Publication info: Dowd, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alex-karp-has-money-power-so-what-does-he-want/docview/3093896780/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
THE WHITE MOUNTAINS, N.H. — Alex Karp never learned to drive.
“I was too poor,” he said. “And then I was too rich.”
In fact, Karp, a cofounder and the CEO of Palantir Technologies, the mysterious and powerful data analytics firm, doesn’t trust himself to drive. Or ride a bike. Or ski downhill.
“I’m a dreamer,” he said. “I’ll start dreaming, and then I fall over. I started doing tai chi to prevent that. It’s really, really helped with focusing on one thing at a time. If you had met me 15 years ago, two-thirds of the conversation, I’d just be dreaming.”
Karp is a lean, extremely fit billionaire with unruly salt-and-pepper curls. He is introvert-charming (something I aspire to myself). He has attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and can’t hide it if he is not interested in what someone is saying.
After a hyper spurt of talking, he loses energy and has to recharge on the stationary bike, or by reading. Even though he thinks of himself as different, he seems to like being different. He enjoys being a provocateur onstage and in interviews.
“I’m a Jewish, racially ambiguous dyslexic, so I can say anything,” he said, smiling.
Unlike many executives in Silicon Valley, Karp backed President Joe Biden, cutting him a big check, despite skepticism about his handling of the border and his overreliance on Hollywood elites like Jeffrey Katzenberg. Now he is supporting Vice President Kamala Harris, but he still has vociferous complaints about his party.
So how did a daydreaming doctoral student in German philosophy wind up leading a shadowy data analytics firm that has become a major American defense contractor, one that works with spy services as it charts the future of autonomous warfare?
He’s not a household name, and yet Karp is at the vanguard of what retired Gen. Mark Milley, a former chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has called “the most significant fundamental change in the character of war ever recorded in history.” In this new world, unorthodox Silicon Valley entrepreneurs like Karp and Elon Musk are woven into the fabric of America’s national security.
Karp is also at the white-hot center of ethical issues about whether firms like Palantir are too Big Brother, with access to so much of our personal data as we sign away our privacy. And he is in the middle of the debate about artificial intelligence.
Critics worry about what happens when weapons are autonomous and humans become superfluous to the killing process. Tech reflects the values of its operators, so what if it falls into the hands of a modern Caligula?
“I think a lot of the issues come back to ‘Are we in a dangerous world where you have to invest in these things?’” Karp told me, as he moved around his living room in a tai chi rhythm, wearing jeans and a tight white T-shirt. “And I come down to yes. All these technologies are dangerous.” He adds, “The only solution to stop AI abuse is to use AI.”
Palantir is derived from palantíri, the all-powerful seeing stones in the J.R.R. Tolkien fantasies. The company’s Palo Alto, California, office features “Lord of the Rings” decor and is nicknamed the Shire.
Born in New York and raised outside Philadelphia, Karp has a Jewish father who was a pediatrician and a Black mother who is an artist. They were social activists who took young Alex to civil rights marches and other protests.
“I just think I’ve always viewed myself as I don’t fit in, and I can’t really try to,” he said. “My parents’ background just gave me a primordial subconscious bias that anything that involves ‘We fit in together’ does not include me.
“Yes, I think the way I explain it politically is like, if fascism comes, I will be the first or second person on the wall.”
Palantir was founded in 2003 by a gang of five, including Karp and his old Stanford Law School classmate Peter Thiel (now the company’s chair). It was backed, in part, by nearly $2 million from In-Q-Tel, the CIA’s venture capital arm.
“Saving lives, and on occasion taking lives, is super interesting,” Karp told me.
Karp does not believe in appeasement. “You scare the crap out of your adversaries,” he said. He brims with American chauvinism, boasting that we are leagues ahead of China and Russia on software.
Karp’s friend Diane von Furstenberg told me that he sees himself as Batman, believing in the importance of choosing sides in a parlous world. But some critics have a darker view, worrying about Palantir creating a “digital kill chain” and seeing Karp less as a hero than as a villain.
Palantir got its start in intelligence and defense — it now works with the Space Force — and has since sprouted across the government through an array of contracts.
It has assisted Ukraine and Israel in sifting through seas of data to gather relevant intelligence in their wars — how to protect special forces by mapping capabilities; how to safely transport troops and how to target drones and missiles more accurately.
While Palantir’s role in helping Ukraine was heralded, its work with Israel, which is trying to catch terrorists hiding among civilians, is far more controversial.
“I think there’s a huge dichotomy between how the elite sees Ukraine and Israel,” Karp said.
The wild origin story of Palantir plays like a spy satire.
After graduating from Haverford College, Karp went to Stanford Law School, which he calls “the worst three years of my adult life.”
He met Thiel, and they immediately hit it off, trash-talking law school and, over beers, debating socialism vs. capitalism. “We argued like feral animals,” Karp told Michael Steinberger in a New York Times Magazine piece.
“I think we bonded on this intellectual level where he was this crazy leftist, and I was this crazy right-wing person,” Thiel told me, “but we somehow talked to each other.”
Karp received his doctorate in neoclassical social theory from Goethe University Frankfurt in 2002. He reconnected with Thiel soon afterward, while working at the Jewish Philanthropy Partnership in San Francisco. The two began doing “vague brainstorming,” as Thiel put it, about a business they could start.
Thiel thought he could figure out how to find terrorists by using some of the paradigms developed at PayPal, which he helped found, to uncover patterns of fraud.
Karp said that we are “very close” to terminator robots and at the threshold of “somewhat autonomous drones and devices like this being the most important instruments of war. You already see this in Ukraine.”
In 2020, after 17 years in Silicon Valley, Karp moved Palantir’s headquarters from Palo Alto to Denver. “I was fleeing Silicon Valley because of what I viewed as the regressive side of progressive politics,” he said.
He thinks that the Valley has intensified class divisions in America.
The AI revolution, he said, will come with a knotty question: “How do you make sure the society’s fair when the means of production have become means that only 1% of the population actually knows how to navigate?”
I asked if he agrees with Musk that AI is eventually going to take everyone’s jobs.
“I think what’s actually dangerous,” Karp replied, “is that people who understand how to use this are going to capture a lot of the value of the market and everyone else is going to feel left behind.”
He said he would support class-based affirmative action and declared himself “pro draft.”
“I think part of the reason we have a massive cleavage in our culture is, at the end of the day, by and large, only people who are middle and working class do all the fighting,” he said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Law schools; Artificial intelligence; Data analysis

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

Location: New Hampshire; White Mountains; Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; Israel; Ukraine; Palo Alto California

People: Harris, Kamala; Karp, Alex

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Tolkien, J R R; Frankfurt (Germany); Customer Relations; Bicycles And Bicycling; AmazonCom Inc; International Relations; Income Inequality; Philadelphia (Pa); New Hampshire; Dowd, Maureen; Banking And Financial Institutions; Privacy; The Lord Of The Rings (Book); Jpmorgan Chase & Company; Company Reports; Ukraine; Textiles; Defense Contracts; Von Furstenberg, Diane; Israel; Shyness; Elections; Presidential Election Of 2020; Race And Ethnicity; Law Schools; Espionage And Intelligence Services; Joint Chiefs Of Staff; Thiel, Peter A; International Business Machines Corporation; Tai Chi; Mercenaries And Private Military Contractors; Milley, Mark A; Germany; Rescues; Computers And The Internet; Musk, Elon; Heat And Heat Waves; Palantir Technologies; Katzenberg, Jeffrey; Drones (Pilotless Planes); Lifestyle; San Francisco (Calif); Data Mining And Databa se Marketing; Stocks And Bonds; United States Space Force; Vice: New And Selected Poems (Book); United States Defense And Military Forces; Karp, Alex; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Labor And Jobs; Russia; Silicon Valley (Calif); Central Intelligence Agency; High Net Worth Individuals; Harris, Kamala D; Russian Interference In 2016 Us Elections And Ties To Trump Associates; Haverford College; Terrorism; Fringe Groups And Movements; New York Times; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Ethics And Official Misconduct; China

Title: Alex Karp Has Money and Power. So What Does He Want?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coas t); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 17, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-17T14:12:09Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3093896780

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/alex-karp-has-money-power-so-what-does-he-want/docview/3093896780/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bari Weiss Knows What She's Doing: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Flegenheimer, Matt

Publication info: Flegenheimer, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bari-weiss-knows-what-shes-doing/docview/3091227929/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Bari Weiss has long been blessed with two superpowers, those close to her say: She knows how to make useful enemies, and she knows how to make useful friends.
As the founder, public face and heat-seeking curator of The Free Press, a new media company with ambitions to overtake the old media, Ms. Weiss, 40, has identified a mélange of reliable foils: the illiberal left; diversity, equity and inclusion programs; opponents of Israel; The New York Times, where Ms. Weiss worked until 2020.
For her sins against groupthink, Ms. Weiss has suggested, she faced eviction from the media "cool kids' table," without regret.
"I don't need to be with the beautiful people," she said at a conference in San Diego recently, hosted by an asset management executive who describes himself as her devoted groupie. "I'm OK being with the nerds."
In fact, luminaries from both camps appear to enjoy her company.
With her news and opinion site (characteristic headlines: "Camping Out at Columbia's Communist Coachella," "The Secret Service Failed. What's That Have to Do With DEI?"), a popular podcast ("Honestly with Bari Weiss") and a lucrative turn on the speechmaking circuit, Ms. Weiss has amassed high status in what might be considered the no-tribes tribe of American power.
She has created, or at least created space at, a cool kids' table all her own, positioning herself as a teller of dangerous truths while becoming a kind of brand ambassador for the views and passions of her audience, which often seem to track neatly with her own: that elite universities have lost the plot; that legacy outlets have lost their minds; that Ms. Weiss knows the way forward.
She has shared Shabbat dinner with David Mamet, the culture-warring playwright who moonlights as a Free Press cartoonist, and dazzled executives at the Sun Valley Conference, walking sheepishly past cordoned-off journalists she met in a previous life.
She has asked "boobs or butts?" of Kim Kardashian in a buddy-buddy interview and compelled Jerry Seinfeld to schlep to watch someone else talk into a microphone -- and, for his choice, face chants of "genocide supporter!" as he left Ms. Weiss's speech about "The State of World Jewry" in Manhattan.
She has headlined a public discussion of antisemitism in a cozy environment ("Sheryl Sandberg, welcome to my living room," one June podcast began) and a private one last year for Hollywood dignitaries like Disney's Robert Iger at the Bel Air home of Dan Loeb, the hedge fund titan.
And she held court last summer at the kingly Hamptons estate of Bobby Kotick, the former chief executive of Activision Blizzard, where a smattering of billionaires and moguls listened to Ms. Weiss talk up Vivek Ramaswamy, the former Republican presidential candidate, and question President Biden's mental capacity, according to people familiar with her visit.
"She doesn't just speak to the 1 percent," said Frank Luntz, the veteran pollster and strategist, who moderated an ovation-heavy session with Ms. Weiss at the Milken Institute Global Conference in 2021. "She speaks to the one-hundredth of 1 percent. And they'll listen."
Some also invest. Backers of Ms. Weiss's company have included the venture capitalists Marc Andreessen and David Sacks, who both recently endorsed Donald J. Trump; Howard Schultz, the former Starbucks chief executive; Allen & Company, the investment firm that hosts the Sun Valley Conference; and a foundation principally funded by Mr. Kotick.
With a staff exceeding three dozen and offices on both coasts, The Free Press has more than 750,000 subscribers on Substack, Ms. Weiss announced in July. A subset of subscribers -- more than 100,000, according to The Free Press -- pay $ 8 a month or $ 80 a year for full access to the site's offerings.
The Free Press has also moved into live events, hosting big-city debates about the sexual revolution, immigration and crime, before audiences fluent in the site's editorial sensibility.
"I hear everything is bigger in Texas," Ms. Weiss told a crowd gathered inside a Dallas theater in April, "but I assure you that the tent cities are indeed bigger in L.A."
While subjects of The Free Press's work have sometimes complained about being misrepresented or caricatured, dozens of news outlets, including The Times, have dedicated their own resources to chasing the site's most attention-soaking coverage.
This has included a first-person essay of a senior NPR editor who accused the organization of incorrigible liberal bias, and a whistle-blower account about transgender health care at a St. Louis children's hospital, where a former case manager claimed that doctors had hastily prescribed hormones to adolescents.
Pledging to fuse throwback journalistic principles of agenda-free fact-finding with a nonconformity better suited to independent media, Ms. Weiss conjures a world where everyone seems terrified of everything -- defying the online mob, stating the obvious, being canceled -- with Bari Weiss as the blazing exception.
"She's just unafraid, and I think that confidence scares a lot of people," said Jeff Zucker, the former CNN president and avowed Free Press supporter, saluting Ms. Weiss's antenna for "how a huge swath of this country feels."
"It is a salon for the privileged laments of the powerful," said Wajahat Ali, a writer and commentator who has encountered Ms. Weiss socially and debated her on television, "masquerading as the grievances of the oppressed."
In dozens of interviews with friends, associates and colleagues, a consensus emerged among Ms. Weiss's many fans and non-fans: She is doing exactly what she meant to, unbothered by -- and often powered by -- a series of nominal contradictions.
She is a reformed print editor who insists she did not get into this industry for money or stature but took care to acquire both anyway, musing openly in recent years about how much The Free Press might be worth someday, according to people who have heard her do so.
She speaks persuasively about the need for a more civil discourse while sometimes evincing a casual disdain for subjects of her site's reporting, with slashing generalizations about "hip, young people with pronouns in their bios" and other ostensible ideological foes. (The Free Press has at times declined to use the preferred pronouns of people it has written about.)
And she is, as she likes to point out, an elite bicoastal lesbian journalist distrusted as a liberal by movement conservatives and as a right-wing zealot by many liberals, invited last November to address the Federalist Society, where she called out the elephants in the Washington ballroom.
"I know that there are some people in this room who don't believe that my marriage should have been legal," she said. "And that's OK. Because we're all Americans who want lower taxes." (The line killed.)
In no small part because of her personal background, Ms. Weiss can function as something like a gateway drug for the lapsed or wobbly Democrat. She is schooled in the tone and aesthetics of left-coded institutions and eager to highlight their failings.
Christopher Rufo, the conservative activist behind campaigns opposing D.E.I. and critical race theory, called The Free Press "the most successful media venture in the United States if you're measuring it on elite influence" and a "beautiful off-ramp" for the kinds of former center-leftists that he envisions pulling all the way to the right.
"My own personal campaign is to radicalize American elites and to create a kind of defector class," Mr. Rufo, who has written for the site, said in an interview. "Among those kind of likely converts, I think you'd find a lot of people who have read The Free Press."
A Buzzy Rise
Profiles of Ms. Weiss -- and there have been an outsize number in this navel-gazing industry -- tend to tick through some common beats and details: that she attended Columbia University, where she dated the future "Saturday Night Live" star Kate McKinnon; that she invariably has some media-world connection to the author of the piece (because she seems to have a media-world connection to almost everyone); that she really is charming in person.
She really is charming in person.
We met only once, to my memory, at a comedy show years ago in the basement of a Manhattan restaurant, which she attended with her now-wife, Nellie Bowles, a former Times reporter whom I knew slightly better. (I later worked with Ms. Bowles, who now helps lead The Free Press, on a Times article about Bernie Sanders's 2020 presidential campaign.)
In interviews, others' initial impressions of Ms. Weiss seemed to match my own: She is unusually charismatic, effectively overfamiliar, performatively attuned to people's vanities ("You are so beautiful," she has told more than one relative stranger) or at least their amenability to pet names.
"She is the only person other than my mother who calls me Howie," said Howard Wolfson, a former New York City deputy mayor under Michael R. Bloomberg and an admirer of Ms. Weiss's. "And my mother has been dead for more than a decade."
Raised in Pittsburgh, Ms. Weiss describes her upbringing in the homespun rhythms of a stump speech.
She grew up "literally in Mr. Rogers' neighborhood," she has said, as the eldest of four girls buoyed by the family carpet business. She became a bat mitzvah in the city's Squirrel Hill neighborhood. She revered her parents' "politically mixed marriage," she has recalled, learning that "fighting about ideas didn't mean that you didn't love someone."
At Columbia, Ms. Weiss patrolled the intersection of mid-2000s campus activism and journalism, speaking often about the strain she said she endured as a proud Jew on the school's grounds.
Saying she was antagonized as an outspoken Zionist -- particularly in the classroom of Joseph Massad, whom some students accused of making antisemitic remarks -- she co-founded an organization, Columbians for Academic Freedom, on the premise that students should not be punished for expressing views that differed from those of their professors. (Dr. Massad, whose anti-Israel positions and writings returned to the fore amid recent protests at Columbia, did not respond to messages seeking comment.)
Some fellow students accused Ms. Weiss of an opportunistic campaign to silence opponents under the guise of academic freedom. Ms. Weiss, explaining herself then in media interviews, did not seem to mind her positioning in this debate. "I will continue to stand up," she vowed in 2005, "even if people call me a McCarthyite."
She has since framed the episode as a "formative" study in taking on "bullies." No one disputes the "formative" part.
"She's been, from what I can tell, the same person all the way," said Samuel Moyn, a professor of law and history at Yale University, who taught Ms. Weiss at Columbia. "She's an extremely gifted ideological operative."
Former colleagues also found her to be a talented editor, with an instinct for stories that would pop. (To this day, Ms. Weiss is known to request more "zhuzh" in articles deemed insufficiently punchy.)
Post-college stops included Tablet and The Wall Street Journal, which in 2013 published a viral essay from Ms. Weiss's then-teenage sister Suzy about college applications.
"Had I known two years ago what I know now, I would have gladly worn a headdress to school," Suzy Weiss wrote. "Show me to any closet, and I would've happily come out of it."
The younger Ms. Weiss, who now writes for The Free Press, later told NBC's "Today" that the piece came about after her complaints to her sister about college rejections were met with laughter and a directive: "Go write this down."
After the 2016 election, Ms. Weiss has said, she sobbed at her desk in horror over Mr. Trump's victory and realized that The Journal was no longer for her. (At a TED Talk this year, Ms. Weiss, who calls herself a "radical centrist," said she had voted for Mitt Romney, Hillary Clinton and Mr. Biden in the last three presidential elections.)
She joined The Times's Opinion section in 2017 as what she has called "an ideological diversity hire," transitioning (at least in her telling) from being one of the most liberal voices at her former employer to one of the most conservative at her new one.
Quickly, Ms. Weiss assumed an unusually large profile for a mid-hierarchy editor and occasional writer. She published zhuzh-y pieces on the excesses of the #MeToo movement and "renegades of the intellectual dark web" like Joe Rogan and Jordan Peterson.
She caught the eye of Bill Maher, who began inviting her on his HBO show, establishing Ms. Weiss as a counter-generational star among a certain class of millennial-skeptical boomer. ("Your generation -- a little crazy," Mr. Maher said in her debut, adding an expletive. She did not disagree.)
After the 2018 massacre at Tree of Life synagogue, the site of Ms. Weiss's bat mitzvah, she also emerged as a prominent voice against antisemitism. "I want to tell you what it is like," she wrote poignantly in The Times days later, "when your neighborhood becomes the scene of a mass murder."
Within a year, Ms. Weiss had written a book ("How to Fight Anti-Semitism") and ranked seventh on The Jerusalem Post's list of the world's most influential Jews, one spot ahead of President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine.
Her book party, co-hosted by the former HBO chief executive Richard Plepler, doubled as a confirmation of her ascendant industry status. "Aunt Betty, meet Shari Redstone, queen of all media!" Ms. Weiss said that night, per a New York magazine write-up.
Friends from The Times said Ms. Weiss's more checkered reputation internally owed to several factors, including occasional professional jealousy. In 2019, her representative quoted a speaking fee of $ 25,000 to a major university, according to emails from the time. (More recently, the requested rate has pushed six figures, according to four people with knowledge of it.)
Ms. Weiss has said, accurately, that messages from Times employees in group Slack channels often flamed her in blistering terms.
But former colleagues have attributed some of the criticism, within The Times and externally, to instances of simple sloppiness or reductive reasoning, cutting against the explanation that Ms. Weiss prefers: that wide swaths of the company were too blindingly progressive to abide her politics.
Among other flare-ups, a 2018 column about left-wing intolerance built part of its case around a Twitter account that Ms. Weiss did not appear to realize was a fake.
"At times it seems that Weiss's main strategy is to make an argument that's bad enough to attract criticism, and then to cherry-pick the worst of that criticism into the foundation for another bad argument," The New Yorker's Jia Tolentino wrote in her 2019 book, "Trick Mirror." "Her worldview requires the specter of a vast, angry, inferior mob."
And that mob, friends say, could have a distorting effect on Ms. Weiss, a dynamic that she sometimes seemed to recognize.
In her piece on the "intellectual dark web," Ms. Weiss dwelled presciently on the notion of "audience capture," suggesting that stories about "left-wing-outrage culture" were so popular that media figures might not be able to resist overplaying them.
"Having been attacked by the left, I know I run the risk of focusing inordinately on its excesses," she added, "and providing succor to some people whom I deeply oppose."
A Media Earthquake
Ms. Weiss's Times career died as it lived: loudly.
In July 2020, she resigned in a nearly 1,500-word open letter to A.G. Sulzberger, The Times's publisher, citing "bullying by colleagues" and an "illiberal environment."
Weeks earlier -- amid the convulsive fallout from a Times opinion piece by Senator Tom Cotton, which called for a military response to wide-scale protests against police violence after the murder of George Floyd -- Ms. Weiss had tweeted about a "civil war" at the paper between "the (mostly young) wokes" and "the (mostly 40+) liberals." Many colleagues called this a maddening oversimplification.
The resignation was an earthquake in insular media circles. "My Jerry Maguire moment," she has said. (Ms. Weiss declined to be interviewed for this article, saying in an email that it was "really hard for me to imagine getting a fair shake in The Times given the history and the relationship.")
Overnight, Ms. Weiss, already a curiosity on the right, became an unqualified sensation, earning praise from Senator Ted Cruz, Ben Shapiro and Donald Trump Jr.
Her next move was uncertain. In prior years, friends said, Ms. Weiss had hoped for a regular chair on a show like "The View," which she has guest hosted.
But this time, she began privately articulating a grander vision for herself, people who spoke to her said: Institutions of classical liberalism -- across media, publishing, academia -- were broken, she explained. It was a period of transformation in American cultural life, and she wanted to help lead it.
For starters, she credits Ms. Bowles, who left The Times in 2021, with nudging her toward her own Substack newsletter, previously called Common Sense, and setting up the site for her. The podcast series followed, buttressed by connections new and old.
"I did her podcast because her dad and I were friends growing up," Mark Cuban, another child of Pittsburgh, said of his 2021 appearance in an email, "and I respect her efforts as an entrepreneur."
Ms. Weiss and Ms. Bowles resettled in Los Angeles, telling associates it was a respite from the pitilessness of New York.
She assembled a small staff and promised to cover stories that others ignored while affording grace to those with whom she clashed.
At an early team retreat, where Ms. Weiss asked the group to share something that informed their values, she chose a clip from "Transparent," the 2010s television series with a trans protagonist, which she said she found moving despite what she assumed were political differences with the show's creator.
"Bari said that she'd chosen it because she never wanted to forget the humanity of those with whom she vehemently disagrees," said an attendee, Megan Phelps-Roper, a former member of the Westboro Baptist Church (and now fierce opponent of its bigoted teachings) who worked with Ms. Weiss.
Within the wider Los Angeles social scene, Ms. Weiss positioned herself as a woman of letters in a city where few claim the title, the doyenne of an anti-establishment establishment of thinkers and friends.
"Everyone," Mr. Zucker said, "wants to go to the salon dinner with Bari."
By 2021, Ms. Weiss had hurtled so thoroughly into the city's zeitgeist that she was invoked on "Curb Your Enthusiasm."
"Come for Shabbos dinner one of these weekends," a Hulu executive tells Larry David's character after a meeting. "We had Bari Weiss last Friday night. She's fantastic." Larry slams the door without answering.
This was art imitating life: The actor playing the executive, Elon Gold, has said he mentioned Ms. Weiss in a fit of ad-libbing because they had indeed shared a Shabbat dinner. (After asking how they met, according to Mr. Gold, Mr. David answered his own question, accurately enough: "Let me guess, it was an event where they said, 'We must save Israel."')
More recently, life has imitated art: The Free Press has a first-look agreement with Netflix.
In the interim, the site's earliest journalistic breakthroughs were elevated by uncommon access.
A podcast series, "The Witch Trials of J.K. Rowling," explored the modern culture wars (including trans issues, a source of high conflict between Ms. Rowling and many fans of the Harry Potter books) through a series of exclusive conversations between the author and Ms. Phelps-Roper, among other reporting. And a series labeled "The Twitter Files" was undertaken by Ms. Weiss at the invitation of Elon Musk after he purchased the platform.
As Ms. Weiss has described it, she received a text message from Mr. Musk one night in 2022 asking how soon she could get to the company's San Francisco headquarters. Within hours, she was investigating the previous Twitter regime's inner workings, along with other writers outside the mainstream media.
Ms. Weiss suggested that Mr. Musk's version of transparency augured a new media order.
"The fact that Elon Musk decided to come to a bunch of people essentially with newsletters rather than The Washington Post and The New York Times tells you a lot about where real trust in the media these days actually lies," she said in a 2022 interview with Russell Brand, the conspiracy-theory-minded British comedian and podcaster.
It betrayed much more, of course, about where Mr. Musk laid his trust. Some journalists dismissed the series as a selective balm for the political right, which long accused Mr. Musk's predecessors of bias.
Still, Ms. Weiss, always acutely aware of how she is perceived on the internet, said she was wary of giving readers too much of what they wanted.
Dinged for her coziness with Mr. Musk after "The Twitter Files," Ms. Weiss made a point to criticize him a short time later for suspending some journalists from the platform.
Internally, Ms. Phelps-Roper said, Ms. Weiss still spoke often of "audience capture," sometimes asking podcast interviewees off-air about how best to avoid it.
"Heterodox" became a favored word among Free Press staff. The goal, Ms. Weiss suggested, was high-impact, high-quality unpredictability.
"Am I going to be the anti-woke cancel culture girl and feed my audience that kind of political heroin every other day?" she said in late 2022. "I don't want to be that."
Expansion and Ambition
There is a certain formula to the opening lines of The Free Press's signature work:
"I am a 42-year-old St. Louis native, a queer woman, and politically to the left of Bernie Sanders ... " But medical interventions for trans children have gotten out of control, and I am blowing the whistle.
"Eight years ago, I was in my mid-20s, and like many of my colleagues at NowThis News, I was completely aligned with the company's left-wing content ... " But environmental causes are more complicated than we implied, and I am blowing the whistle.
"I'm Sarah Lawrence-educated, was raised by a lesbian peace activist mother, I drive a Subaru, and Spotify says my listening habits are most similar to people in Berkeley ... " But NPR is governed by a narrow progressive ideology, and I am blowing the whistle. (The author of that piece, Uri Berliner, has since joined The Free Press.)
To the site's most passionate followers, such entries are evidence that The Free Press is the rare outlet willing to speak honestly about what is happening in this country.
"I'm a big fan of The Free Press," said Mr. Maher, perhaps the most prolific "I'm a liberal but ... " voice in modern media, "and the brand of common sense, nonpartisan reporting that they are championing and delivering on."
James Kirchick, an author and friend of Ms. Weiss's, invoked magazine royalty like Tina Brown and Graydon Carter to describe her editorial radar, with a dash of The New York Post and a bygone New Republic.
"There's the populism," Mr. Kirchick said, "but also the thing that's going to cause a huge fuss."
At minimum, Ms. Weiss has made herself the most trusted name in media for a particular kind of media distruster. Her contingent of fans includes members of the so-called PayPal Mafia, whose adherents often think little of the mainstream press.
Among some who once worked for The Free Press, a private joke took hold: Whenever Ms. Weiss described what "the smartest people I know" thought about an issue, this was essentially shorthand for David Sacks, the venture capitalist. (Ms. Weiss has had both Mr. Sacks and Peter Thiel, PayPal's former chief executive, on her podcast.)
The site's reporting about left-wing disorder has been a feeder to Fox News coverage. But The Free Press appears to see itself as more of an intellectual competitor to The Atlantic, whose majority owner, Emerson Collective, previously weighed an investment in the site, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Some Free Press contributions would be the envy of almost any outlet: an essay from David Sedaris, a posthumous collection of letters from the Russian opposition leader Aleksei Navalny.
After the attempted assassination of Mr. Trump, the company's all-hands response showcased the muscles it has built since its modest beginnings: Within 48 hours, Ms. Weiss's team had published a first-person account from the rally; a meditation on past near-miss attacks against presidents; an essay mapping the parallels between 2024 and 1968; a piece imploring Americans to "turn down the temperature"; and a column by the historian Niall Ferguson, the site's splashiest recent hire.
Since Oct. 7, which prompted a surge of interest for The Free Press, Ms. Weiss has also reported from the Middle East, visiting a kibbutz that had been attacked and airing interviews with Palestinians in Ramallah.
Occasionally, some pieces seem to directly challenge Ms. Weiss's worldview, including one by Andrew Sullivan in January titled, "How Many Children Is Israel Willing to Kill?"
Many other features might be categorized principally as entertainment, like a matchmaking service for readers ("email cupid@thefp.com") and a popular weekly sendup of headlines from Ms. Bowles.
Yet even among some who admire The Free Press's ambition, the consistency of its tilt can grate, with pieces and interviews often appraising issues that Ms. Weiss seems to view as settled: Can the medical establishment be trusted? (Not after its collective Covid performance, Ms. Weiss suggests.) Did Democrats and the news media perpetrate a conspiracy to conceal Mr. Biden's health? ("They Knew," read the headline of Ms. Weiss's post-debate column.)
"They're entitled to have a political slant," said Cathy Young, a writer who has both praised and criticized The Free Press. "It's just that Bari presents it as a site that is dedicated to the pursuit of truth and objectivity and so on."
That Free Press story arcs are often predictable does not make them untrue, of course, even if in some cases (including at NPR), their subjects have objected strenuously to key details and conclusions.
But former Free Press employees have expressed discomfort with the sweeping declarations that accompany some articles.
"As The Free Press was finding its voice, I started to realize that it wasn't the best fit for mine," said Ms. Phelps-Roper, the former Westboro member who hosted the podcast about Ms. Rowling and left The Free Press shortly thereafter, adding that she was grateful for the editorial latitude that Ms. Weiss allowed on that series. "I tend to be quite cautious around taking strong stances and speaking with moral certainty, for reasons I hope are obvious given my history. I also prefer for there to be a clear distinction between news and opinion pieces."
Some former staff members described an editorial process that could feel haphazard. And Ms. Weiss is, by her own account, perpetually overbooked.
Her rash of commitments and outside projects includes a board seat at the University of Austin, a not-yet-accredited college that plans to welcome students this fall. (Spokespeople and incoming professors for the school, whose stated aim is to transcend the hive mind of traditional universities, either ignored messages or declined to comment.)
After long operating as a consciously unruly start-up -- "a non-hierarchical lesbian commune," Ms. Weiss has joked -- The Free Press seems to be undergoing at least a modest shift in workplace culture.
Among other changes, Ms. Weiss has added a chief operating officer, Lars Kahl, with prior experience at Politico and Axel Springer, and a business development hire, Ellie Stein, from the investment firm TCG.
A more symbolic upheaval is expected soon: Ms. Weiss and Ms. Bowles are planning to move back to New York as The Free Press's footprint expands -- returning conquerors, friends say (only slightly in jest).
Supporters say The Free Press's greatest challenge now is building an institution without becoming too much of one.
"Can it continue to be truly alternative as it becomes big on its own scale?" said Nick Gillespie, an editor at large at Reason, the libertarian magazine, who has written for The Free Press. "It's kind of the Bob Dylan problem, right? Every couple of years, you have to remind your audience to expect what's true to you, not what they want."
Ms. Weiss has not sounded concerned.
"Institutions are just people," she has said, and Ms. Weiss seems to know precisely who she intends to be in the public consciousness.
At The Free Press's debate in Dallas in April, Ms. Weiss described her place in her family's American immigrant story.
Her relatives from Hungary and Poland were boxers and bootleggers and loan sharks, she said warmly, working every angle they could.
"Now their great-granddaughter is a coastal elite lesbian journalist who's accused by the left of being a flag-waving jingoist and on the right of having dual loyalty," she said. "I have to think, at some point, this is what my ancestors came to this country for."
Moments later, Ms. Weiss called to the stage the biggest name on the evening's program, which had been billed as a too-rare "civil discussion" of whether the nation should shut its borders.
"Arguing in the affirmative," she said, "is none other than Ann Coulter."
Photograph Bari Weiss, top, a former New York Times opinion editor and writer who founded the media company The Free Press. Center from left: Jeff Zucker, a former president of CNN, who said Ms. Weiss recognized "how a huge swath of this country feels"; and Christopher Rufo, a conservative activist, who described The Free Press as a "beautiful off-ramp" for center-leftists turning to the right. Above, Ms. Weiss, center, at last year's Sun Valley conference in Idaho with her wife, Nellie Bowles, left, and the entrepreneur Adrien Nussenbaum (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCINE ORR/LOS ANGELES TIMES, VIA GETTY IMAGES; BELINDA JIAO/REUTERS; THOMAS SIMONETTI FOR THE WASHINGTON POST, VIA GETTY IMAGES; DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG) (BU4); Above, Ms. Weiss in 2005, when she was a Columbia University student, speaking to reporters at an event organized by a group she co-founded, Columbians for Academic Freedom. Right, Uri Berliner, a former NPR editor who works for The Free Press. Below, J.K. Rowling, the creator of Harry Potter, was interviewed at length for a Free Press podcast about today's culture wars. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS; PETE KIEHART FOR THE FREE PRESS; TOLGA AKMEN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page BU4, BU5.

Subject: Presidential elections; Journalistic ethics; Interviews; Executives; News media

Business indexing term: Subject: Executives

Location: Sun Valley

People: Weiss, Bari

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/10/business/media/bari-weiss-free-press.html

Title: Bari Weiss Knows What She's Doing:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 11, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3091227929

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bari-weiss-knows-what-shes-doing/docview/3091227929/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Down a Dark Internet Rabbit Hole: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ryan, Mac; Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/down-dark-internet-rabbit-hole/docview/3087632351/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At a cryptocurrency convention in Austin in May, Blake Emerson Benthall hustled for investor money alongside scores of other entrepreneurs. But none of them, it is safe to say, could pitch their experience as the leader of a multimillion-dollar criminal drug enterprise.
In the convention's "Deal Flow Zone," Mr. Benthall, 5-foot-4, cleanshaven and wearing a gray tee with his start-up's logo, turned his laptop around at a lunch table and began giving his spiel to a bespectacled potential investor.
"I'm a lifelong entrepreneur," Mr. Benthall said as he clicked through a presentation that detailed how he had run Silk Road 2.0, the second iteration of the infamous online bazaar where 1.7 million anonymous customers signed up and used Bitcoin to buy methamphetamine, heroin and other illegal substances. He recounted his eventual arrest by the F.B.I. and the years he spent in the punitive employ of the federal government.
Now, with his sentence served and probation ended, Mr. Benthall, 36, is promoting a new business: a two-year-old start-up, Fathom(x), which aims to provide businesses and government agencies with software to track digital currency transactions and ensure legal compliance.
Mr. Benthall knows it's rich for an ex-con to school companies about compliance. But in an industry crawling with hucksters and overnight experts, Mr. Benthall says his criminal experience can help unmask fraud before it leads to another scam like FTX, the now-defunct cryptocurrency exchange whose founder is in prison.
While his business is far from proven, his presence at Consensus, the crypto convention, suggested that his decade-long path to legitimacy is close to complete. His story followed some surprising, sometimes baffling twists -- from a Christian, home-schooled childhood to running a site that generated $ 8 million a month in illicit drug sales. Then, to pay for his sins, he spent nearly 10 years secretly helping the government crack down on crypto abuses.
It's a journey that traces Bitcoin's own evolution from a speculative digital currency associated with dark-web criminals to a Wall Street-approved investment asset. Even some of the skeptical government investigators who worked on the Silk Road cases have been converted into fervent crypto evangelists. One, a former F.B.I. agent named Vincent D'Agostino, even invested in Mr. Benthall's start-up.
Consensus, which started the year after Mr. Benthall's arrest with heady discussions about Bitcoin and blockchain among 500 techie types, has grown to an exposition of dozens of digital currencies and start-ups attended by more than 15,000 people. Some of them, like the venture capitalist who sat with Mr. Benthall, are looking for big returns in the industry's ever-expanding goods and services.
After Mr. Benthall finished his pitch, he closed his laptop. The investor offered him a $ 150,000 handshake deal on the spot.
From Home-schooled Boy to Online Drug Lord
Mr. Benthall grew up in Houston, an only child, home-schooled by his parents, who were religious Christians. His mother, Sharon Benthall, a community college instructor, described her boy as "reserved, cautious and very bright." His father, Larry, a software manager, would hold young Blake on his lap as he worked on a desktop computer that would eventually become his son's preferred link to the outside world.
By age 7, Blake was making websites for hiccup cures and his Beanie Babies collection. At 14, he started a hosting company for online games with another teen he had met on AOL Instant Messenger. He used his mother's PayPal account to order a computer server to the family home's doorstep and promised to pay her back with his customers' subscription fees.
"Looking back, there were some things that were just not normal," Mrs. Benthall said.
His parents said they tried to rein in his internet use, but the young Benthall was hooked, finding online a camaraderie and thrill missing at church and Boy Scouts.
After briefly attending Florida College, a small Christian school near Tampa, Mr. Benthall moved to San Francisco in 2009 to chase his tech dreams. He worked for a start-up building a play-date-scheduling app for parents. It failed in four months.
He bounced back and forth between the Bay Area and Florida and from gig to gig, spending much of his free time going down internet rabbit holes. One of the deepest concerned Bitcoin, the digital currency then worth around $ 130 that allowed people to make anonymous online purchases. He read a 2013 interview with a mysterious figure calling himself the Dread Pirate Roberts who ran a site called Silk Road, a dark-web marketplace that trafficked mostly in illegal drugs. The site relied on Bitcoin and Tor, a software that anonymizes online identity to provide privacy to buyers and sellers -- and authorities seemed helpless to do anything about it.
Mr. Benthall liked the idea of browsing the internet without his activity being linked to his computer. He downloaded Tor.
One October afternoon in 2013, Mr. Benthall was at an Equinox gym in downtown San Francisco when he saw breaking news on the overhead television: Law enforcement had taken down Silk Road and arrested the Dread Pirate Roberts, whose real name was Ross Ulbricht.
Mr. Ulbricht, 29, was a fellow Texan also living in San Francisco. He was arrested at a library within walking distance of Mr. Benthall's home in the Mission District.
Mr. Benthall didn't use drugs and had never visited Silk Road, but, gripped by the news that authorities had seized 26,000 Bitcoin, he quickly finished his workout and hurried home to indulge in "dark net popcorn," as he put it.
The F.B.I. had already taken Silk Road offline, but the site's forum was still active. Some users were freaking out about being identified and arrested, but to Mr. Benthall's surprise, others were already talking about starting a new drug marketplace. Believing that the chatter could be erased at any moment, Mr. Benthall used a computer program to save the forum's posts.
Thus began Mr. Benthall's new career. A Silk Road moderator who saw that data was being copied from the forum demanded to know who was responsible. When Mr. Benthall revealed himself over an anonymous chat service, the moderator peppered him with technical questions and eventually offered Mr. Benthall $ 50,000 in Bitcoin to build a new site.
Collaborating on an illicit narcotics bazaar while the authorities snooped around sounded like a bad idea, but Mr. Benthall was low on money. He was interviewing for a job at SpaceX, Elon Musk's up-and-coming rocket manufacturer, but didn't have an offer. He convinced himself that the Silk Road gig was just some temporary coding.
"At 25, I didn't understand conspiracy laws," Mr. Benthall said. "I could be this nameless behind the scenes dev guy. It felt like very low risk."
Nor was he thinking much about the criminals the site might be abetting or the harms associated with freewheeling drug use. Mr. Benthall bought into the libertarian argument made by the Dread Pirate Roberts that Silk Road could reduce the dangers associated with narcotics by allowing users to rate their product and sellers.
He spent the next three weeks coding what would become Silk Road 2.0, which opened a month after Mr. Ulbricht's arrest.
Mr. Benthall planned to walk away, but the moderator who had hired him offered a 50 percent split of the profits if he continued running the site's servers.
"I was definitely aware that it was illegal," Mr. Benthall said. But the site received 100,000 sign-ups on its first day. "It was a great feeling like, oh, people are finally using something I've built."
Then he got an offer from SpaceX to start as a flight software engineer in December. The pay wasn't great, and he would have to commute from the Bay Area to the company's Southern California headquarters every week, but he took it because it was his "dream job." He was now doubly employed.
A Double Life
Silk Road 2.0 grew rapidly, but Mr. Benthall's partner, later arrested and identified as a 19-year-old who lived in England, wanted out. Mr. Benthall had to choose between shuttering the marketplace or running it alone.
"I took over full leadership," Mr. Benthall said. "Here I am, you know, suddenly in charge of the largest website selling drugs in the world, like overnight."
The work kept him up through the night, and he struggled to focus at his day job. At one point, he crawled into a prototype of SpaceX's Dragon capsule spacecraft to nap in the middle of the day.
By night he was raking in money. Silk Road 2.0 took a roughly 8 percent cut of every transaction, so he was making as much as $ 500,000 a month, part of which he used to pay a dozen anonymous users to help him with customer service.
In January 2014, he treated himself to a $ 127,000 Tesla Model S, paid for in Bitcoin. He lived it up, flying in turboprop planes to Lake Tahoe, attending the Coachella music festival and sharing spectacular views from boats on his Instagram account.
He never took the laptop he used for his dark net life into SpaceX, worried that corporate security would discover what he was up to. While he was at SpaceX one day in February, hackers broke into Silk Road 2.0 and stole Bitcoin worth about $ 2.7 million. He overheard a co-worker commenting on the hack in the company cafeteria: "Can you believe the idiots who relaunched this stupid site?"
Soon after, SpaceX fired Mr. Benthall for poor performance.
Mr. Benthall threw himself headlong into his criminal enterprise. The site announced that it would take no profits until customers were made whole.
As people continued to use the marketplace, Mr. Benthall relied more on his team of anonymous customer service agents. He said he felt a sense of responsibility to keep the site operating, in spite of the hacks, the constant work and his fear of the law.
But the law was closer than he realized.
The Bust
Among the anonymous users whom Mr. Benthall hired to help with customer service was Jared Der-Yeghiayan, an undercover agent from the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Der-Yeghiayan had helped investigate the original Silk Road, posing as an eager community moderator to gain the trust of Mr. Ulbricht. Now he had to do it all over again.
Mr. Der-Yeghiayan knew Mr. Benthall only by his pseudonymous handle, Defcon, and he was impressed by Defcon's technical acumen.
The agent burrowed into the Silk Road 2.0 operation over several months, but the breakthrough came from researchers at Carnegie Mellon University. Around this time, the researchers developed a method to expose the locations of the servers used to host dark websites that Tor had sought to obscure. Federal authorities subpoenaed their findings and were then able to tie Mr. Benthall's name to the machines hosting Silk Road 2.0.
When investigators did a Google search and saw that Mr. Benthall had recently worked for SpaceX, they assumed someone had stolen his identity. They joked that "an actual rocket scientist" was operating the site, said Gary Alford, an I.R.S. agent who worked on the case.
They put Mr. Benthall under surveillance for five months to collect more evidence. Then, on a November afternoon in 2014, as he pulled away from his house in his Tesla, three vehicles blocked him in. Federal agents emerged and put him under arrest.
Mr. Der-Yeghiayan and Vincent D'Agostino, an F.B.I. agent from New York who had also worked on the original Silk Road case, led him back into his house, sat the handcuffed Mr. Benthall on his bed and got to work.
During the months of surveillance, Mr. D'Agostino felt as if he had a pretty good handle on who Mr. Benthall was. He'd read his forum posts, seen his tweets and watched him perform in a college cover band on YouTube. He didn't strike Mr. D'Agostino, who previously worked the organized crime beat, as a hardened criminal.
Nor did he seem to the investigators to be cut from the same cloth as Mr. Ulbricht, a radical libertarian skeptical of government authority. Mr. Ulbricht, who was accused of commissioning the killings of five people he believed would reveal his operation (none of whom died), was eventually sentenced to life in prison for narcotics trafficking. (Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump recently said he would pardon him if elected.)
Mr. Benthall, on the other hand, didn't seem dangerous. His main interest, Mr. D'Agostino said, seemed to be "making the site better."
"Builders want to build, and sometimes builders lose sight of the context of what they're doing," Mr. D'Agostino said. "The just sheer joy of building something is the high that they get." Those skills, he thought, could be useful to the government.
So inside Mr. Benthall's apartment, Mr. D'Agostino and Mr. Der-Yeghiayan told Mr. Benthall that they knew he was Defcon and showed him chat logs that he thought had been long deleted. They told him they had already raided his parents' home in Houston and urged him to cooperate.
Mr. Benthall knew he was in deep trouble. "I need to convince them that I am not a monster," he said of his thinking at the time. After taking a moment to pray, he agreed to hand over the digital keys to the site and its Bitcoin wallets and huddled in his bedroom with the investigators past midnight, filling in gaps in their knowledge about how Silk Road 2.0 operated. He couldn't name names, because everyone involved was anonymous, but he did create a tool to extract data they wanted from the site.
"There was an immediate remorse from him," Mr. Der-Yeghiayan said, "and I felt like it was genuine."
Working With the Feds
Mr. Benthall spent the first nights after his arrest in an Oakland jail, after a federal prosecutor, Katie Haun, argued against bail. At a hearing, a judge told him he faced a minimum of 10 years in prison. He was eventually moved to Queens Detention Center in New York, where he would be prosecuted.
A couple of weeks after his arrival, Mr. D'Agostino checked Mr. Benthall out of the detention center and took him to a windowless interrogation room in the F.B.I.'s office near Chinatown. After handcuffing him to the desk, the agent put a laptop in front of him and asked him to provide technical help. Mr. Benthall typed away with one hand, offering answers.
"It was a very high-pressure hackathon for my life," Mr. Benthall said, realizing that he was being offered a rare opportunity.
The authorities' raid on Silk Road 2.0 was the first of dozens of seizures of dark-net marketplaces. The F.B.I. was "drowning in data," Mr. D'Agostino said, and needed someone with technical skills to help make sense of it.
With the blessing of federal prosecutors, the investigators began discussing a cooperation agreement with Mr. Benthall's lawyer, Jean-Jacques Cabou. If Mr. Benthall assisted the government, a judge might, at some future point, grant him a more lenient sentence. "Most of the time you couldn't afford someone like that in government," said Mr. Der-Yeghiayan.
The meetings continued. Soon, Mr. Benthall was being left alone in the locked F.B.I. interrogation room to work, the handcuffs off but needing a chaperone to go to the bathroom.
One day, Mr. D'Agostino handed him a polo shirt to wear instead of his blue prison top. They drove to a mall in Queens and sat in the food court with their laptops. Mr. D'Agostino even gave the inmate a $ 5 bill and allowed him to roam the food court. The F.B.I. agent watched him as though Benthall was "a young child," and asked for his change after Mr. Benthall came back with a Wendy's coffee.
"Your goal is to slowly and gradually build a relationship with this person so that we can trust them more and with more information," Mr. D'Agostino said.
In July 2015, Mr. Benthall pleaded guilty to four counts, including narcotics trafficking and money laundering. He signed a cooperation agreement formalizing his commitment to work for the government. After eight months of incarceration, Mr. Benthall was permitted to move to an apartment in Queens. He became a full-time, ankle-monitor-wearing cybercrime consultant, paid in freedom and a stipend that covered dollar pizza slices, toothpaste and subway rides.
Mr. Benthall helped investigate large-scale corporate hacks, traced Bitcoin transactions to try to identify criminals and even conducted a training at the F.B.I.'s office in Quantico, Virginia. "The U.S. government holds a ton of cryptocurrency, and keeping it all safe is a real concern," he said.
Mr. Benthall considers himself lucky that he had the skills the government needed at the right time. But Brian Farrell, who served six years in prison for his role as DoctorClu, one of the anonymous moderators Mr. Benthall once employed, views it as fundamentally unfair that he, "someone lower on the totem pole," served a much harsher sentence.
Mr. Benthall generally declined to discuss specifics about his government work. He mentioned only one case: an individual who threatened to bomb a New York City school unless they were paid in Bitcoin. Mr. Benthall helped identify the person, he said, by tracing their crypto wallet address. (The F.B.I. declined to comment because, a spokesperson wrote, "there are no public documents detailing the actions by Benthall.")
His quasi freedom came with paranoia. "Once you're surveilled by a nation-state, it really changes the way you see the world," he said. He felt he was being constantly monitored, and he feared being identified by angry Silk Road 2.0 customers. He went to therapy, paid for by the government.
But he also resumed something like a normal life. He sang and played guitar at open mic events. He started going to church again and made friends. But he kept his past hidden. Everyone knew him as Emerson, his middle name.
Michael White was then the executive director of CityLight Church in the East Village, which Mr. Benthall attended. "Because of my role as a pastor, people were typically an open book with me," said Mr. White. "But here comes this guy who I know his name is Emerson, but I know zero other details about him."
A New Beginning?
Over the next five years, Mr. Benthall worked alongside some of the same agents who had taken down Silk Road and Silk Road 2.0. But as time went on, some of those government employees left for the private sector -- more specifically, the crypto industry -- as Bitcoin went mainstream and surpassed $ 10,000.
The most prominent was Ms. Haun, the federal prosecutor who had argued against Mr. Benthall's bail. She joined the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz in 2018 to invest in crypto companies and raised her own $ 1.5 billion fund four years later.
Mr. D'Agostino, who had started out as a Bitcoin skeptic, came around to the idea that it was going to "change the world." He set up Bitcoin-mining software at his home and eventually left the F.B.I. to join a private security firm, offering help to companies hit by ransomware attacks. Mr. Der-Yeghiayan now works for Chainalysis, a blockchain analysis company.
As the authorities around him departed, Mr. Benthall wondered how much longer he would be tethered to government service. Technically, he was out on bail, but he had not been sentenced, and there was no set end date for his penance.
Daniel Richman, a former prosecutor and a law professor at Columbia University, said Mr. Benthall's arrangement was uncommon, but it does happen in cases where someone's "culpability has been deemed enough to prosecute, but not so much as to pose a risk while he's out."
"It sounds like indentured servitude," Mr. Richman added. "But it ends up being beneficial for both sides."
The Covid-19 pandemic offered Mr. Benthall a potential escape. When everyone stopped going to the office in early 2020, Mr. Benthall asked a judge if he could live and work from his parents' home in Houston.
The spring of the next year, hoping he had done enough, Mr. Benthall asked the court to formally sentence him for his crimes. In March 2021, he and his parents flew to Manhattan for the hearing.
Sitting in his suit and ill-fitting dress shoes, Mr. Benthall received the sentence he was hoping for: Time served with three years probation, during which he was required to keep working for the government, unpaid, as needed. The decision remained under seal, and Mr. Benthall avoided talking about it for fear of jeopardizing the arrangement.
Still, he had a criminal record, which made finding work difficult. He needed to pay back his parents, who had dipped into their retirement funds to cover his legal bills. He also had become a father while he was cooperating with the government.
After three job offers were rescinded, Mr. Benthall decided to start Fathom(x) in the spring of 2022. It was, he said, the fulfillment of a "lifelong dream" to be a founder -- a legitimate one, this time.
Fathom(x)'s pitch is simple: It will verify whether a company has the cryptocurrency it claims to have and whether it's clean. Its founder sees his years of government work as enhancing his credibility. He is also pleased to have Mr. D'Agostino as an investor in Fathom(x). "I made the agent who arrested me, a believer in me," Mr. Benthall said.
The two men had stayed in touch over the years after Mr. D'Agostino left the F.B.I. When Mr. Benthall was still living in New York, Mr. D'Agostino invited him to a backyard barbecue where they sang karaoke.
When Mr. Benthall founded the start-up, he called Mr. D'Agostino for advice. The former F.B.I. agent wanted to invest. "The person I'm talking to now is not the person I arrested 10 years ago," said Mr. D'Agostino.
Mr. Richman, the former prosecutor and law professor, was uncomfortable with that investment. "I don't like the idea that when you're working as an agent with a collaborator, there's even a glimmer of a possibility that the two of you will be in business," he said.
Mr. D'Agostino is not the only former "co-worker" Mr. Benthall has encountered in his new life. He has pitched his software to government agencies, including the I.R.S., where Mr. Alford, the Silk Road investigator, still works.
"It's just so weird how life works like that," said Mr. Alford, recalling a video meeting in which Mr. Benthall gave a presentation to him and other I.R.S. agents. While felons aren't barred from working for the federal government, John Pelissero, a government ethics expert at Santa Clara University, said he was surprised that Mr. Benthall wasn't placed on a "do-not-hire list" as part of his sentencing. Mr. Alford did not say if the I.R.S. is using Fathom(x).
Mr. Benthall won't reveal his customers, nor how much the start-up has raised from investors. Fathom(x) is tiny, employing just two contractors, but Mr. Benthall said it is profitable.
He has also begun to grapple with the harm he might have caused to people by running a site that trafficked in dangerous goods. When he was living in New York, the overdose death of a new friend made him feel certain that, given the large number of Silk Road users, someone must have been hurt using narcotics they bought there.
On the way to the crypto convention, Mr. Benthall used his middle name when ordering at a coffee shop, partly out of reflex and perhaps partly because he's still figuring out how to confront his past. He imagines that when he does start using his full name, one of his victims may confront him.
"People have every right," he said. "So I am bracing myself for some really hard conversations."
Alain Delaquérière contributed research. Audio produced by Parin Behrooz.
Alain Delaquérière contributed research. Audio produced by Parin Behrooz.
Photograph Top, a young Blake Benthall at his family's computer; center, Sharon and Larry Benthall, who home-schooled Mr. Benthall, their only child, in Houston; above, Silk Road offerings in a familiar online marketplace format, with customer reviews and product descriptions; above right, Ross Ulbricht, who ran the original Silk Road site and was sentenced to life in prison for narcotics trafficking. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE BENTHALL FAMILY; ANNIE MULLIGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LYN ULBRICHT) (BU4-BU5); Top, Jared Der-Yeghiayan was one of several anonymous Silk Road 2.0 users Mr. Benthall hired to help with customer service. He was actually an undercover agent from the Department of Homeland Security. Above, Vincent D'Agostino was an F.B.I. agent in 2014 when he arrested Mr. Benthall. He later left the F.B.I. and recently invested in Mr. Benthall's start-up company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMUEL CORUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; LILA BARTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) This article appeared in print on page BU4, BU5.

Subject: Digital currencies; Currency transactions; Software; Computers; Internet; Arrests; Startups; Personal profiles; Narcotics

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Currency transactions Startups

Location: Florida; United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Benthall, Blake

Company / organization: Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/24/business/blake-benthall-silk-road-crypto.html

Title: Down a Dark Internet Rabbit Hole:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 4, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3087632351

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/down-dark-internet-rabbit-hole/docview/3087632351/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Was an Online Drug Lord. Now He’s a Crypto Entrepreneur.

Author: Ryan, Mac; Hill, Kashmir

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Hill, Kashmir. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-was-online-drug-lord-now-s-crypto-entrepreneur/docview/3087564259/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
At a cryptocurrency convention in Austin, Texas, in May, Blake Emerson Benthall hustled for investor money alongside scores of other entrepreneurs. But none of them, it is safe to say, could pitch their experience as the leader of a multimillion-dollar criminal drug enterprise.
In the convention’s “Deal Flow Zone,” Benthall, 5-foot-4, cleanshaven and wearing a gray tee with his startup’s logo, turned his laptop around at a lunch table and began giving his spiel to a bespectacled potential investor.
“I’m a lifelong entrepreneur,” Benthall said as he clicked through a presentation that detailed how he had run Silk Road 2.0, the second iteration of the infamous online bazaar where 1.7 million anonymous customers signed up and used bitcoin to buy methamphetamine, heroin and other illegal substances. He recounted his eventual arrest by the FBI and the years he spent in the punitive employ of the federal government.
Now, with his sentence served and probation ended, Benthall, 36, is promoting a new business: a startup, Fathom(x), which aims to provide businesses and government agencies with software to track digital currency transactions and ensure legal compliance.
Benthall knows it’s rich for an ex-con to school companies about compliance. But in an industry crawling with hucksters and overnight experts, Benthall says his criminal experience can help unmask fraud before it leads to another scam like FTX, the now-defunct cryptocurrency exchange whose founder is in prison.
While his business is far from proven, his presence at Consensus, the crypto convention, suggested that his decade-long path to legitimacy is close to complete. His story followed some surprising, sometimes baffling twists — from a Christian, home-schooled childhood to running a site that generated $8 million a month in illicit drug sales. Then, to pay for his sins, he spent nearly 10 years secretly helping the government crack down on crypto abuses.
It’s a journey that traces bitcoin’s own evolution from a speculative digital currency associated with dark-web criminals to a Wall Street-approved investment asset. Even some of the skeptical government investigators who worked on the Silk Road cases have been converted into fervent crypto evangelists. One, a former FBI agent named Vincent D’Agostino, even invested in Benthall’s startup.
After Benthall finished his pitch, he closed his laptop. The investor offered him a $150,000 handshake deal on the spot.
From Home-schooled Boy to Online Drug Lord
Benthall grew up in Houston, an only child, home-schooled by his parents, who were religious Christians. His mother, Sharon Benthall, a community college instructor, described her boy as “reserved, cautious and very bright.” His father, Larry, a software manager, would hold young Blake on his lap as he worked on a desktop computer.
By age 7, Blake was making websites for hiccup cures and his Beanie Babies collection. At 14, he started a hosting company for online games with another teen he had met on AOL Instant Messenger. He used his mother’s PayPal account to order a computer server to the family home’s doorstep and promised to pay her back with his customers’ subscription fees.
After briefly attending Florida College, a small Christian school near Tampa, Benthall moved to San Francisco in 2009 to chase his tech dreams. He worked for a startup building a play-date-scheduling app for parents. It failed in four months.
He bounced back and forth between the Bay Area and Florida and from gig to gig, spending much of his free time going down internet rabbit holes. One of the deepest concerned bitcoin, the digital currency then worth around $130 that allowed people to make anonymous online purchases. He read a 2013 interview with a mysterious figure calling himself the Dread Pirate Roberts who ran a site called Silk Road, a dark-web marketplace that trafficked mostly in illegal drugs. The site relied on bitcoin and Tor, a software that anonymizes online identity to provide privacy to buyers and sellers — and authorities seemed helpless to do anything about it.
Benthall liked the idea of browsing the internet without his activity being linked to his computer. He downloaded Tor.
One October afternoon in 2013, Benthall was at an Equinox gym in downtown San Francisco when he saw breaking news on the overhead television: Law enforcement had taken down Silk Road and arrested the Dread Pirate Roberts, whose real name was Ross Ulbricht.
Ulbricht, 29, was a fellow Texan also living in San Francisco. He was arrested at a library within walking distance of Benthall’s home in the Mission District.
Benthall quickly finished his workout and hurried home to indulge in “dark net popcorn,” as he put it.
The FBI had already taken Silk Road offline, but the site’s forum was still active. Some users were freaking out about being identified and arrested, but to Benthall’s surprise, others were already talking about starting a new drug marketplace. Believing that the chatter could be erased at any moment, Benthall used a computer program to save the forum’s posts.
Thus began Benthall’s new career. A Silk Road moderator who saw that data was being copied from the forum demanded to know who was responsible. When Benthall revealed himself over an anonymous chat service, the moderator peppered him with technical questions and eventually offered Benthall $50,000 in bitcoin to build a new site.
Collaborating on an illicit narcotics bazaar while the authorities snooped around sounded like a bad idea, but Benthall was low on money. He was interviewing for a job at SpaceX, Elon Musk’s up-and-coming rocket manufacturer, but he didn’t have an offer. He convinced himself that the Silk Road gig was just some temporary coding.
“At 25, I didn’t understand conspiracy laws,” Benthall said. “I could be this nameless behind the scenes dev guy. It felt like very low risk.”
He spent the next three weeks coding what would become Silk Road 2.0, which opened a month after Ulbricht’s arrest.
Benthall planned to walk away, but the moderator who had hired him offered a 50% split of the profits if he continued running the site’s servers.
“I was definitely aware that it was illegal,” Benthall said. But the site received 100,000 sign-ups on its first day. “It was a great feeling like, oh, people are finally using something I’ve built.”
Then he got an offer from SpaceX to start as a flight software engineer in December. He was now doubly employed.
Silk Road 2.0 grew rapidly, but Benthall’s partner, later arrested and identified as a 19-year-old who lived in England, wanted out. Benthall had to choose between shuttering the marketplace or running it alone.
“I took over full leadership,” Benthall said. “Here I am, you know, suddenly in charge of the largest website selling drugs in the world, like overnight.”
The work kept him up through the night, and he struggled to focus at his day job.
By night he was raking in money. Silk Road 2.0 took a roughly 8% cut of every transaction, so he was making as much as $500,000 a month, part of which he used to pay a dozen anonymous users to help him with customer service.
The Bust
Among the anonymous users whom Benthall hired to help with customer service was Jared Der-Yeghiayan, an undercover agent from the Department of Homeland Security. Der-Yeghiayan had helped investigate the original Silk Road, posing as an eager community moderator to gain the trust of Ulbricht. Now he had to do it all over again.
Der-Yeghiayan knew Benthall only by his pseudonymous handle, Defcon, and he was impressed by Defcon’s technical acumen.
The agent burrowed into the Silk Road 2.0 operation over several months, but the breakthrough came from researchers at Carnegie Mellon University. Around this time, the researchers developed a method to expose the locations of the servers used to host dark websites that Tor had sought to obscure. Federal authorities subpoenaed their findings and were then able to tie Benthall’s name to the machines hosting Silk Road 2.0.
They put Benthall under surveillance for five months to collect more evidence. Then, on a November afternoon in 2014, as he pulled away from his house in his Tesla, three vehicles blocked him in. Federal agents emerged and put him under arrest.
Der-Yeghiayan and Vincent D’Agostino, an FBI agent from New York who had also worked on the original Silk Road case, led him back into his house, sat the handcuffed Benthall on his bed and got to work.
During the months of surveillance, D’Agostino felt as if he had a pretty good handle on who Benthall was. He didn’t strike D’Agostino, who previously worked the organized crime beat, as a hardened criminal.
So inside Benthall’s apartment, D’Agostino and Der-Yeghiayan told Benthall that they knew he was Defcon and showed him chat logs that he thought had been long deleted. They told him they had already raided his parents’ home in Houston and urged him to cooperate.
Benthall knew he was in deep trouble. He agreed to hand over the digital keys to the site and its bitcoin wallets and huddled in his bedroom with the investigators past midnight, filling in gaps in their knowledge about how Silk Road 2.0 operated. He couldn’t name names, because everyone involved was anonymous, but he did create a tool to extract data they wanted from the site.
“There was an immediate remorse from him,” Der-Yeghiayan said, “and I felt like it was genuine.”
Working With the Feds
Benthall spent the first nights after his arrest in an Oakland jail, after a federal prosecutor, Katie Haun, argued against bail. At a hearing, a judge told him he faced a minimum of 10 years in prison. He was eventually moved to Queens Detention Center in New York, where he would be prosecuted.
A couple of weeks after his arrival, D’Agostino checked Benthall out of the detention center and took him to a windowless interrogation room in the FBI’s office near Chinatown. After handcuffing him to the desk, the agent put a laptop in front of him and asked him to provide technical help.
The authorities’ raid on Silk Road 2.0 was the first of dozens of seizures of dark-net marketplaces. The FBI was “drowning in data,” D’Agostino said, and needed someone with technical skills to help make sense of it.
With the blessing of federal prosecutors, the investigators began discussing a cooperation agreement with Benthall’s lawyer, Jean-Jacques Cabou. If Benthall assisted the government, a judge might, at some future point, grant him a more lenient sentence.
The meetings continued. Soon, Benthall was being left alone in the locked FBI interrogation room to work, the handcuffs off but needing a chaperone to go to the bathroom.
In July 2015, Benthall pleaded guilty to four counts, including narcotics trafficking and money laundering. He signed a cooperation agreement formalizing his commitment to work for the government. After eight months of incarceration, Benthall was permitted to move to an apartment in Queens. He became a full-time, ankle-monitor-wearing cybercrime consultant, paid in freedom and a stipend that covered dollar pizza slices, toothpaste and subway rides.
Benthall helped investigate large-scale corporate hacks, traced bitcoin transactions to try to identify criminals and even conducted a training at the FBI’s office in Quantico, Virginia.
A New Beginning?
Over the next five years, Benthall worked alongside some of the same agents who had taken down Silk Road and Silk Road 2.0. But as time went on, some of those government employees left for the private sector — more specifically, the crypto industry — as bitcoin went mainstream and surpassed $10,000.
The most prominent was Haun, the federal prosecutor who had argued against Benthall’s bail. She joined the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz in 2018 to invest in crypto companies and raised her own $1.5 billion fund four years later.
D’Agostino, who had started out as a bitcoin skeptic, came around to the idea that it was going to “change the world.” He set up bitcoin-mining software at his home and eventually left the FBI to join a private security firm, offering help to companies hit by ransomware attacks. Der-Yeghiayan now works for Chainalysis, a blockchain analysis company.
As the authorities around him departed, Benthall wondered how much longer he would be tethered to government service. Technically, he was out on bail, but he had not been sentenced, and there was no set end date for his penance.
The COVID-19 pandemic offered Benthall a potential escape. When everyone stopped going to the office in early 2020, Benthall asked a judge if he could live and work from his parents’ home in Houston.
The spring of the next year, hoping he had done enough, Benthall asked the court to formally sentence him for his crimes. In March 2021, he and his parents flew to Manhattan for the hearing.
Benthall received the sentence he was hoping for: Time served with three years probation, during which he was required to keep working for the government, unpaid, as needed.
He needed to pay back his parents, who had dipped into their retirement funds to cover his legal bills. Benthall also had become a father while he was cooperating with the government.
After three job offers were rescinded, Benthall decided to start Fathom(x) in the spring of 2022. It was, he said, the fulfillment of a “lifelong dream” to be a founder — a legitimate one, this time.
Fathom(x)’s pitch is simple: It will verify whether a company has the cryptocurrency it claims to have and whether it’s clean. Its founder sees his years of government work as enhancing his credibility. He is also pleased to have D’Agostino as an investor in Fathom(x). “I made the agent who arrested me, a believer in me,” Benthall said.
When Benthall founded the startup, he called D’Agostino for advice. The former FBI agent wanted to invest. “The person I’m talking to now is not the person I arrested 10 years ago,” D’Agostino said.
Benthall won’t reveal his customers, nor how much the startup has raised from investors. Fathom(x) is tiny, employing just two contractors, but Benthall said it is profitable.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Customer services; Currency transactions; Software; Computers; Arrests; National security; Startups; Sting operations; Digital currencies; Criminal investigations; Surveillance

Business indexing term: Subject: Customer services Currency transactions Startups Digital currencies

Location: New York; United States--US; Florida; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: Department of Homeland Security; NAICS: 922120; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Government Employees; England; Wages And Salaries; Bitcoin (Currency); Ulbricht, Ross William; Virtual Currency; Houston (Tex); Computer Security; Federal Bureau Of Investigation; Privacy; Restaurants; Florida; Haun, Katie; New York City; Prisons And Prisoners; Venture Capital; Mobile Applications; Chinatown (Manhattan, Ny); Tesla Motors Inc; Health Clubs; Organized Crime; Private Spaceflight; Tax Evasion; Careers And Professions; San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); E Learning; Quantico Marine Base (Va); Cyberattacks And Hackers; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Google Inc; Exercise; Silk Road 20; Customer Relations; Decisions And Verdicts; Desktop Computers; Pensions And Retirement Plans; Texas; Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Carnegie Mellon University; Entrepreneurship; Frauds And Swindling; Shutdowns (Institutional); Equinox Holdings Inc; Accidents And Safety; Homeland Security Department; Workplace Environment; Christians And Christianity; Black Markets; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; San Francisco (Calif); Collectors And Collections; Hk Ftx Trading Ltd (Futures Exchange); Executive Compensation; Laptop Computers; Robberies And Thefts; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Labor And Jobs; Sentences (Criminal); Chinatown (San Francisco, Calif); Space And Astronomy; Television; Virginia; Internal Revenue Service; Tor Project; Home Schooling; Queens (Nyc); Chainalysis Inc; Tampa (Fla); Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Silk Road (Web Site); Mission District (San Francisco, Calif); Austin (Tex); Altruism; Community Colleges; Business; Oakland (Calif); Manhattan (Nyc); Drug Abuse And Traffic; Roads And Traffic; World Economic Forum; Hoaxes And Pranks; Aol Inc; Time (Magazine); Start Ups; Whistle Blowers; Names, Personal

Title: He Was an Online Drug Lord. Now He’s a Crypto Entrepreneur.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 3, 2024

Dateline: 2024-08-03T16:23:06Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3087564259

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-was-online-drug-lord-now-s-crypto-entrepreneur/docview/3087564259/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-0 8-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tech Bro Elegy: How Did JD Vance Get Here?: [Op-Ed]

Author: Krugman, Paul

Publication info: Krugman, Paul. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-bro-elegy-how-did-jd-vance-get-here/docview/3085829638/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: There are talented politicians, there are untalented politicians, and then there's JD Vance -- I mean, he tried to calm the furor over his "childless cat ladies" remarks by feebly deadpanning that he's "got nothing against cats."
Now he's just gaslighting, claiming that Kamala Harris called for an end to the child tax credit, even though as part of the Biden administration, she of course supported a major expansion of the tax credit that greatly reduced child poverty but expired in 2022 in the face of unified Republican opposition.
So how did this guy end up as the Republican vice-presidential nominee? Who's his constituency? Despite the "Handmaid's Tale" vibe of his views on women and reproductive rights, he doesn't have deep roots in the religious right. And he's a late adopter of the MAGA worldview, having once fretted that Donald Trump could wind up being "America's Hitler."
Vance's ascent has, to a significant degree, been powered by a small group of technology billionaires with Peter Thiel, who poured millions into Vance's 2022 Senate race, at the center.
There's clearly overlap between this coterie and the tech types who a year ago briefly swooned over Robert Kennedy Jr. Their enthusiasm for Kennedy seems to have waned as they've realized the obvious -- that he's a crank who could still play the role of spoiler, but not a serious presidential contender in his own right. On the other hand, the elevation of Vance -- who seems to be a worse politician than even his detractors realized, looks harder to reverse. While it's technically still possible to replace Vance on the G.O.P. ticket, Trump is probably stuck with him.
In any case, you really want to think of Vance as an avatar, not of hillbillies -- as the title of his memoir would have you believe -- but of tech bros.
Now, it would be misleading to suggest that Vance represents all of Silicon Valley. His boosters -- and in general, the tech billionaires who strongly support the Trump-Vance ticket -- are a relatively small if immensely wealthy group. So, what do they have in common?
To start, right-wing political leanings. Some used to present themselves as libertarians, but they've now made their peace with Trump, who, with his promises of mass deportations and his hints that he will prosecute political opponents, is anything but libertarian.
Some right-wing techies have also descended into conspiracism. Leading the pack, Elon Musk has taken to promoting false claims that Democrats refuse to deport illegal immigrants because they expect to receive their votes.
In general, as I've noted in the past, paranoid politics comes surprisingly naturally to the ultrawealthy, and not just in the tech sector. Partly that's because it's hard for some billionaires to avoid surrounding themselves with people unwilling to tell them when they're talking nonsense. Partly it's because some seem to feel a peculiar sense of grievance over the things money can't buy: If I'm so rich, why can't I shape the world to my liking?
Tech-bro support for Trump and Vance also seems to have a lot to do with one specific issue: cryptocurrency. In 2017, the pro-Trump tech mogul David Sacks -- who had a prime speaking slot at the Republican National Convention this month -- told CNBC that "Bitcoin is fulfilling PayPal's original vision to create 'the new world currency."' Last year, Thiel's Founders Fund invested $ 200 million in two cryptocurrencies. Also last year, Politico reports, Vance "introduced a bill that would shield banks from regulatory pressure to cut off crypto customers." This year, he circulated "industry-friendly" draft legislation that would "overhaul how the S.E.C. and the C.F.T.C. police the crypto market."
What is crypto? On Saturday, Trump, addressing a Bitcoin conference, declared, "Most people have no idea what the hell it is" -- which is true, and almost surely applies to Trump himself, who once dismissed Bitcoin as "a scam" against the dollar but now says that the "attacks on crypto" are coming from "left-wing fascists."
The truth is that Bitcoin, which was introduced 15 years ago, an eon in tech time, remains economically useless: A 2022 survey found that transactions involving crypto assets "are seldom used for payments outside the crypto ecosystem." A couple of exceptions to its uselessness are money laundering and extortion.
But many crypto boosters now appear to believe that with Trump, they have crucial political support. They've already managed to get key parts of their wish list inserted into the 2024 Republican Party platform: "Republicans will end Democrats' unlawful and unAmerican Crypto crackdown and oppose the creation of a Central Bank Digital Currency." (Strange stuff to include in a fairly short document presumably aimed at voters, when I'm sure only a tiny handful of voters have the slightest idea what any of that is about.)
At Saturday's conference, Trump appeared to go even further than his party's platform, calling for the creation of some form of national Bitcoin reserve -- a government bailout for a scandal-ridden, value- and environment-destroying industry.
Oh, and on Monday, Vance is slated to headline a fund-raiser at the home of Mike Belshe, the chief executive of BitGo, a digital asset company.
Anyway, the backing of tech billionaires is a key reason we ended up with Vance as a vice-presidential contender. He pitches himself as a champion of working-class America. But behind his cynical culture-warring -- behind his professed allegiance to Everyman totems like Mountain Dew -- he's closely tied to a tech-sector ethos that's anything but populist.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIA NIKHINSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Digital currencies; Scandals; Tax credits; Voters; Religious right; Political parties; Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Candidates

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Tax credits

People: Vance, J D

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/29/opinion/vance-trump-cryptocurrency.html

Title: Tech Bro Elegy: How Did JD Vance Get Here?:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 30, 2024

column: Paul Krugman

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3085829638

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-bro-elegy-how-did-jd-vance-get-here/docview/3085829638/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Election-Year Fights Divide Billionaires in Silicon Valley: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ryan, Mac; Griffith, Erin; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Griffith, Erin; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/election-year-fights-divide-billionaires-silicon/docview/3085829612/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk, Reid Hoffman and other tech billionaires, many of whom are part of the "PayPal Mafia," are openly brawling with one another over politics as tensions rise.
Less than an hour after a gunman in Butler, Pa., tried to assassinate Donald J. Trump this month, David Sacks, a venture capitalist based in San Francisco, directed his anger about the incident toward a former colleague.
"The Left normalized this," Mr. Sacks wrote on X, linking to a post about Reid Hoffman, a technology investor and major Democratic donor. Mr. Sacks implied that Mr. Hoffman, a critic of Mr. Trump who had funded a lawsuit accusing the former president of rape and defamation, had helped cause the shooting.
Elon Musk, who leads SpaceX and Tesla and previously worked with Mr. Sacks and Mr. Hoffman, then weighed in on X, name-checking Mr. Hoffman and saying people like him "got their dearest wish."
In Silicon Valley, the spectacle of tech billionaire attacking tech billionaire has suddenly exploded, as pro-Trump executives and their Democratic counterparts have openly turned on each other. The brawling has spilled into public view online, at conferences and on podcasts, as debates about the country's future have turned into personal broadsides.
The animus has pit those who once worked side by side and attended each other's weddings against one another, fraying friendships and alliances that could shift Silicon Valley's power centers. The fighting has been particularly acute among the "PayPal Mafia," a wealthy group of tech executives -- including Mr. Hoffman, Mr. Musk, Mr. Sacks and the investor Peter Thiel -- who worked together at the online payments company in the 1990s and later founded their own companies or turned into high-profile investors.
Other tech leaders have also been pulled into the political spats, including Vinod Khosla, a prominent investor, and Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz of the Silicon Valley venture firm Andreessen Horowitz.
Their unabashed vitriol is stark. While tech leaders often criticize one another in private, they rarely do so publicly for fear of upsetting a potential deal partner or future job prospect.
"Until a year or two ago, there was something like an omertà in Silicon Valley," said Roger McNamee, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist, using a word popularized by the Italian mafia for a code of silence. "People had fights all the time and leaders would disagree, but you wouldn't disagree in public."
Mr. McNamee jumped into the rumpus on Wednesday by calling out Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Horowitz, who both recently endorsed Mr. Trump, for their "antidemocratic" values on X. Mr. McNamee had previously invested in a company that Mr. Horowitz led.
Mr. Horowitz shot back on Thursday, invoking his 25-year business relationship with Mr. McNamee. "Really Roger?" Mr. Horowitz wrote. "Your very first idea when we disagree is to attack me in a tweet?"
The altercations show how Silicon Valley's identity is fragmenting. For years, the nation's tech capital was seen as a liberal bastion. But Mr. Sacks, Mr. Musk, Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Horowitz all broke from that view by endorsing Mr. Trump in recent weeks.
Many of them were unhappy with President Biden's tech policies and regulatory appointees, who have pursued more rules and lawsuits against tech companies. They prefer Mr. Trump for his push to lower taxes and his support for the cryptocurrency industry, which some of the tech billionaires have invested in.
"There's been shaming and canceling on the left for some time," said Trevor Traina, a Republican in San Francisco who served as ambassador to Austria during Mr. Trump's presidency and is close to Mr. Sacks and Mr. Hoffman. "And now you're starting to hear strong voices on the right in Silicon Valley."
Democratic tech executives and investors have countered that Mr. Trump is not good for tech. They say Mr. Trump and his allies have talked about throwing Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Meta, in prison; suggested breaking up big tech companies; and proposed strict immigration policies, which could hinder the industry's hiring of skilled workers.
Mr. Hoffman, Mr. Thiel and an Andreessen Horowitz representative declined to comment. Mr. Sacks and Mr. Musk did not respond to requests for comment.
Political tensions began escalating into personal attacks last month after Mr. Sacks held an ornate fund-raiser for Mr. Trump in San Francisco. Days later, Mr. Hoffman, who gave at least $ 10 million to bolster President Biden's campaign, chided Mr. Sacks in a blog post for following "pro-Trump groupthink" and backing "a convicted felon."
At a conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, this month, Mr. Hoffman got into a heated exchange with Mr. Thiel, who has funded Republicans, according to a person briefed on the conversation. The longtime friends bickered over Mr. Hoffman's stance against Mr. Trump, leading Mr. Hoffman to sarcastically say that he wished he had made the former president "an actual martyr," the person said. The exchange was reported earlier by Puck.
After the assassination attempt on Mr. Trump, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Musk used Mr. Hoffman's words to criticize their former colleague. Mr. Hoffman responded last week by pointing out that some current supporters of Mr. Trump, including Mr. Sacks, had disavowed Mr. Trump in 2021 after the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol.
"If you have integrity and you're supporting Trump in this election, you should address that," Mr. Hoffman said in a podcast appearance on Wednesday.
This month, Mr. Sacks shared a list of pro-Trump techies on X and spoke at the Republican National Convention, which grated on Democratic tech investors and entrepreneurs, said Siri Srinivas, an investor at Gradient Ventures. After President Biden withdrew from the race and Vice President Kamala Harris became the presumptive Democratic nominee, many of those investors and entrepreneurs were energized and felt more emboldened to speak out, she said.
"Weeks of private hand-wringing likely helped many to urgently and emphatically show their support for Harris and opposition to Trump," Ms. Srinivas said. On Tuesday, she mimicked Mr. Sacks's list by posting a roster of the industry's Harris supporters on X.
Mr. Sacks has since continued his verbal attacks, taking aim last week at Reed Hastings, a Netflix founder who is a major Democratic donor. On X, Mr. Sacks called Mr. Hastings a "useful idiot" for supporting the Democratic Party.
Mr. Hastings did not respond to a request for comment.
Some tech luminaries have stayed out of the fray, including Mr. Zuckerberg. In 2016 when Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. Zuckerberg posted on his Facebook page that "progress does not move in a straight line," alluding to Mr. Trump without naming him. But this time, the Meta chief has not talked about politics.
The exception was an interview with Bloomberg this month, in which Mr. Zuckerberg complimented Mr. Trump's "fist-pump" moment after the assassination attempt. Mr. Zuckerberg's decision to take a less vocal approach to politics could improve strained relationships in Washington and potentially with Mr. Trump if he is elected, two people familiar with the discussions said.
A Meta spokesman declined to comment.
Some tech entrepreneurs are reacting to the politicking. Merci Grace, a start-up founder in San Francisco, said she felt "betrayed" by Mr. Andreessen's and Mr. Horowitz's endorsements of Mr. Trump and would not work with their venture firm. Ms. Grace, who supports abortion rights and once had surgery after a life-threatening ectopic pregnancy, said she opposed the stance against abortion from JD Vance, Mr. Trump's running mate.
"The way in which Ben and Marc are claiming they're single-issue voters for Trump is so galling to me, because men have been throwing that line in my face for years as a way to dismiss the life-or-death stakes of abortion access," Ms. Grace said, referring to the investors' support of Mr. Trump because of what they said were his pro-tech policies. "Yes, I'm a single issue voter, too. Being alive is my issue."
But Mr. Khosla, who supports Ms. Harris, said the fights over politics would not leave lasting fractures in the tech industry, where innovation ultimately reigns supreme.
"I'll work with almost anyone if what I'm working on can change the world," he said.
Photograph Clockwise from top left: Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures; David Sacks, a tech investor; Reid Hoffman, a founder of LinkedIn; and Elon Musk, the head of SpaceX and Tesla. Mr. Khosla and Mr. Hoffman are supporting Democrats, and Mr. Sacks and Mr. Musk have backed Republicans. The political split has frayed some Silicon Valley alliances. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANASTASIIA SAPON FOR NYT; KENNY HOLSTON/NYT; CLARA MOKRI FOR NYT; KEVIN MOHATT/REUTERS) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Political parties; Venture capital; Presidents; Abortion; Assassinations & assassination attempts; Endorsements; High tech industries

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital High tech industries

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Musk, Elon; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Hoffman, Reid; Sacks, David

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/29/technology/silicon-valley-politics-elon-musk-reid-hoffman.html

Title: Election-Year Fights Divide Billionaires in Silicon Valley:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 30, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3085829612

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/election-year-fights-divide-billionaires-silicon/docview/3085829612/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Chase Will Bar 'Pay Later' Loans on Its Cards: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Carrns, Ann

Publication info: Carrns, Ann. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chase-will-bar-pay-later-loans-on-cards/docview/3085005157/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Financial regulators and consumer advocates frown upon using credit cards to pay off installment loans because of the risk that consumers will dig themselves further into debt.
JPMorgan Chase, the nation's largest credit card issuer, will bar customers from using its credit cards to repay increasingly popular "buy now, pay later" installment loans.
Chase said in an emailed statement that buy now, pay later installment loans "are a form of credit" and that the bank did "not generally allow customers to pay for credit products" with their Chase credit cards.
Chase has been alerting customers about the change, which takes effect on Oct. 10, and telling them to link a new form of payment to the pay later accounts to avoid missed payments and possible late fees. The bank declined to say what proportion of its cardholders use third-party pay-later services like Affirm, Afterpay, Klarna, PayPal and Sezzle.
Chase is not the first credit card issuer to make the move. Capital One, the fourth-largest card issuer, barred use of its credit cards for pay later loans in late 2020. In an emailed statement, Sarah Strauss, head of customer services and strategy at Capital One, said the bank "encourages its customers to make responsible decisions when it comes to debt repayment." She added, "Our longstanding policy is that we do not allow customers to pay other forms of debt on Capital One credit cards, including buy now pay later loans."
The change at Chase follows the announcement by a federal consumer watchdog agency to regulate the buy now, pay later loans as credit cards. It also comes as delinquencies on traditional credit cards are rising, causing banks to be more cautious even as they face competition from alternative pay-later lenders.
Pay later loans, a modern version of layaway plans, are commonly called "pay in four" loans because they allow shoppers to pay for purchases in four payments, usually over six weeks. Details vary by company, but users typically owe no fees or interest if they make their payments on time. (Some pay later lenders may charge hefty late fees for missed payments.)
The services are offered online during checkout, as well as in some stores or via mobile apps. Shoppers can get quick approval with a cursory credit check. (Some pay later providers also offer more traditional, longer-term installment loans that charge interest.)
To participate, shoppers link their pay later account to a payment method, like a debit card, bank account or credit card. Payments are usually deducted automatically. In October, just over 9 percent of consumers said they had recently used a pay later loan. While that proportion was still relatively low, it was up roughly 40 percent from two years earlier, according to a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
The practice of using credit cards to pay off the short-term installment loans is frowned upon, both by financial regulators and by consumer advocates, because of the risk that consumers will dig themselves further into debt. Shifting the required payments to a credit card means users can end up paying double-digit interest if they carry a balance on their credit card instead of paying it in full monthly. (The average interest rate on credit cards is around 22 percent.)
"It makes no sense to use a credit card to service a buy now, pay later loan," said Lauren Saunders, associate director of the National Consumer Law Center. "It defeats the purpose of the loan." If users want to put as many purchases as possible on a credit card, to earn points or rewards, Ms. Saunders said, they can also earn them by paying with the card directly rather than by using a pay later loan first.
Given that research suggests financially vulnerable consumers are more likely to use pay later loans, using a credit card for the loans is "highly problematic," said Jennifer Chien, senior policy counsel at Consumer Reports. Pay later borrowers on average are more likely to be "highly indebted," to carry a balance on their credit cards and to have lower credit scores, according to a report last year from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Michael Hershfield, founder and chief executive of Accrue Savings, a financial start-up that gives incentives to users to save for big purchases, said credit card companies preferred that customers used their own "pay later" options, rather than those of competitors. "They want to build that user base," he said.
Chase, for instance, offers a "pay over time" program that its credit card holders can use to break up payments for some purchases into smaller installments paid over weeks or months for a fixed monthly fee. Chase also offers its own pay-in-four loan to its checking account customers, allowing them to repay in four installments over eight weeks with no fee or interest.
Ms. Chien said it was already "standard practice" for banks to bar credit card holders from using them to make direct payments to pay balances on other credit cards. (There are indirect options, like using balance transfer cards to move debt from one card to another.)
Penny Lee, president and chief executive of the Financial Technology Association, an industry group representing several companies that offer pay later loans, including Klarna and PayPal, said Chase's new policy was "unfortunate" because it limited consumer choice. Ninety percent of pay later shoppers pay with a debit card, she said, suggesting they use the loans to "smooth their spending and cash flow."
By contrast, Adam Rust, director of financial services at the Consumer Federation of America, said Chase's policy would help borrowers. "I applaud Chase for the decision because it will protect consumers from becoming overextended," he said.
Here are some questions and answers about pay later loans:
Will other credit card companies change their policies?
Policies at other big card issuers vary. Bank of America allows its customers to use its credit cards to pay for pay later loans, said a spokesman, Don Vecchiarello. American Express said its cards currently could be used with a "limited number" of buy now, pay later providers.
Do other credit card companies offer their own version of pay later loans?
Some do. Citi and American Express both offer options for credit card customers to pay for certain purchases over time, in smaller installment payments.
What is the best way to use pay later loans safely?
Consumer advocates recommend limiting the number of pay later loans you have at one time and arranging for automatic payments from a bank account or debit card to avoid missing one and possibly getting a late fee.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Installment payments; Credit card industry; Consumers; Customers; Consumerism; Loans; Credit cards; Fees & charges

Business indexing term: Subject: Credit card industry Consumers Customers Loans Credit cards

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Capital One Financial Corp; NAICS: 522210, 522291, 551111; Name: American Express Co; NAICS: 522210, 551111; Name: JPMorgan Chase & Co; NAICS: 522110, 522292, 523150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/26/your-money/chase-pay-later-loans-credit-cards.html

Title: Chase Will Bar 'Pay Later' Loans on Its Cards:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 27, 2024

column: Your Money Adviser

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3085005157

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chase-will-bar-pay-later-loans-on-cards/docview/3085005157/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Harris's Views on Economics Are Seen as Being Mostly in Line With Current Policy: [National Desk]

Author: Tankersley, Jim; Smialek, Jeanna; Swanson, Ana

Publication info: Tankersley, Jim; Smialek, Jeanna; Swanson, Ana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harriss-views-on-economics-are-seen-as-being/docview/3084114492/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: President Biden has not given his vice president an expansive economic portfolio. But she has engaged on issues of small-business lending, help for parents and more.
Shortly after the Biden administration took office in 2021, Vice President Kamala Harris started calling the chief executives of large banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America.
The federal government was making hundreds of billions of dollars available for banks to lend to small businesses to keep them afloat during the pandemic recession. Ms. Harris told the executives they needed to be lending more, faster, particularly to minority-owned businesses that data suggested were struggling to gain access to the money.
The calls represented one of the earliest and most visible forays Ms. Harris made in devising and carrying out the Biden administration's economic agenda, and illustrated the sort of economic policy niche that she has filled as vice president.
Current and former administration officials, progressive leaders outside the White House and allies of Ms. Harris roundly agree that the vice president, who is now the leading candidate to secure the Democratic presidential nomination, did not play a major role in the creation of the sweeping economic legislation that has defined President Biden's time in office.
Ms. Harris was rarely a loud voice in major economic debates, like the ones over how to counter soaring inflation in 2021 and 2022. She did sometimes attend economic briefings, but was not always a big contributor in them. One attendee recalled her coming to an economic briefing, but simply listening to the presentation while Mr. Biden asked questions.
Other officials say Ms. Harris largely focuses her questions for economists on how certain policies affect workers and families at a personal level -- a trait she shares with the president.
Mr. Biden has asked Ms. Harris to take on other issues central to his agenda, like protecting reproductive rights as well as tackling the root causes of a surge of migrants from Central America at the border. But unlike the role that Mr. Biden carved out for himself during his vice presidency, Ms. Harris has not been a key player in the administration's expansive economic portfolio.
Instead, the officials say, Ms. Harris has gravitated toward a few select economic issues, which have evolved over the last several years. She was an early champion of an expanded tax credit for parents, along with a suite of proposals for child care, paid leave and other so-called care economy policies that did not make it into the economic bills Mr. Biden signed into law because they could not attract enough Democratic support in the Senate.
Ms. Harris's areas of focus also included access to capital for small businesses and place-based policies to help revitalize rural and urban communities that have fared poorly in recent decades, even in times when the economy grew.
She has led the creation of a public-private group called the Economic Opportunity Coalition, which seeks to drive tens of billions of dollars in investment capital to communities of color across the nation. Businesses participating in the effort include large financial firms like Capital One and Goldman Sachs, along with companies like Netflix and PayPal.
"She feels very strongly about entrepreneurship, small-business access to capital and particularly that businesses that may not have straightforward access to capital have methods to do that," said Bharat Ramamurti, a former deputy director of Mr. Biden's National Economic Council who worked with Ms. Harris on those issues.
People who have worked with Ms. Harris in the administration describe her as having been largely shoulder to shoulder with Mr. Biden on economic policy questions, with few notable dissents from his choices. Her record from the Senate and her short-lived presidential campaign in the 2020 cycle suggest a few areas where she is more liberal than Mr. Biden or otherwise differs from him on economic issues.
Ms. Harris earned an economics degree from Howard University, and her father is an emeritus economics professor at Stanford University. She has not clearly defined an economic policy philosophy as vice president -- but her economic policy views will be critical in an election where economic issues, including inflation, rank as the top concern for voters.
Felicia Wong, the president of Roosevelt Forward, an advocacy affiliate group to a progressive think tank, said Ms. Harris was focused on economic opportunity and was "close to labor."
Some of Ms. Harris's core allies in the labor movement are concentrated among service workers, rather than the blue-collar unions that have formed the basis of Mr. Biden's support.
The vice president spoke at a convention held by the Service Employees International Union in May, highlighting the price cap on insulin and a higher minimum wage for federal contractors as Biden administration victories. Ms. Harris said the administration wanted to make sure that medical debt "cannot impact a person's ability to get a car loan, an apartment lease or a home loan," and explained its efforts to cancel student loan debt.
April Verrett, the union's president, said Ms. Harris's record as a champion for labor extended back to her time in California as attorney general. She has "shown up as a true ally and champion," Ms. Verrett said.
The S.E.I.U. endorsed Ms. Harris shortly after Mr. Biden dropped out of the race on Sunday, and it is among a group of labor unions sponsoring an ad highlighting Ms. Harris's record on paid family leave.
While Ms. Harris has less of a track record on more macroeconomic issues -- she is rarely asked about topics like inflation or the overall state of the job market -- in 2022 she pointed to corporate profit-taking among oil companies as a driver of price increases.
While many more progressive Democrats say corporate profits are a big reason for rapid inflation, more moderate economists argue that companies always want to raise prices and maximize profits. What has enabled companies to lift prices so rapidly since 2021 is a combination of strong consumer demand and limited supply.
The White House has begun to use the talking point, but at times reluctantly. Progressive groups pushed the Harris campaign this week to lean into the idea that corporate greed has pushed prices up.
"I do think she will be able to make a more nuanced argument about the drivers of inflation," Ms. Wong said.
Where Ms. Harris would land on some pressing issues is still not totally clear -- for instance trade, where her record suggests even more skepticism toward new free-trade deals than Mr. Biden has shown.
The Biden administration has been using tariffs to protect industries important to national security and other targeted priorities, and Ms. Harris herself worked on securing supply chains and on immigration-related issues as vice president.
She traveled to Central America to promote manufacturing businesses there that would provide employment and try to stem the flow of migrants to the United States. Ms. Harris also traveled to Asia several times. There, she discussed supply chain issues, like the global shortage of semiconductors that occurred after the pandemic, and took a more critical stance toward China.
In the Senate and on the campaign trail, Ms. Harris positioned herself as slightly more progressive than Mr. Biden on trade-related issues. She said in 2019 that she would not have voted for the North American Free Trade Agreement, for instance.
She was one of only 10 senators to oppose a renegotiated NAFTA, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, under President Donald J. Trump. Ms. Harris concluded that the deal fell short because it did not contain any measures to address climate change.
In general, people close to the White House said they did not expect Ms. Harris to break dramatically with the administration's approach to economic policy, though they thought she might shift the emphasis.
"I think she is personally much more passionate about the care side of the agenda," said Ernie Tedeschi, who is now the director of economics at the Yale Budget Lab and who was until this year the chief economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
At least during her time in the Senate, Ms. Harris did not appear to subscribe to any particular economic philosophy, said Yasmin Nelson, who was Ms. Harris's policy adviser there.
"I don't think you'll see her referencing some bookish theory," said Ms. Nelson, who now works at Holland & Knight, a law and lobbying firm. "But at heart she's a capitalist with liberal views."
Andrew Duehren contributed reporting.
Andrew Duehren contributed reporting.
Photograph Kamala Harris, above, at the Madison Metro Transit facility in March, where she spoke about the administration's push for union jobs. At left, members of UNITE HERE, the hospitality workers' union, during a speech by Ms. Harris. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAMIL KRZACZYNSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A13.

Subject: Small business; Economic policy; North American Free Trade Agreement; Pandemics; Profits; Prices; Presidential elections; Economic opportunities; Labor unions

Business indexing term: Subject: Small business Economic policy North American Free Trade Agreement Profits Economic opportunities Labor unions

Location: United States--US; Central America

People: Harris, Kamala; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Senate-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/24/us/politics/kamala-harris-economic-policy.html

Title: Harris's Views on Economics Are Seen as Being Mostly in Line With Current Policy:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 25, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3084114492

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/harriss-views-on-economics-are-seen-as-being/docview/3084114492/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Paper Checks Refuse to Die: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lieber, Ron

Publication info: Lieber, Ron. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-paper-checks-refuse-die/docview/3083785192/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: It's hard to avoid hassle -- or fraud -- when you're required to pay with paper and ink. Here's why checks persist and why some people don't mind.
Target stopped accepting personal checks as a form of payment this month, which might inspire the following question: What took so long?
Check fraud has more than doubled in recent years, and it costs at least a dollar for businesses to process each check they receive. Plenty of young adults have never even written one.
But if you haven't used a check in years and consider it a badge of honor, that may say a lot about where you live and what you pay for. In many industries, checks continue to be a popular form of payment, and sometimes they are required.
According to consumer survey data from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, which tracks the percentage of payments that consumers make by check, the following industries receive the most check payments: Contractors, like electricians and plumbers, get 25 percent of their payments by check. Charitable and religious organizations are next at 22 percent. Landlords, government taxing authorities and professional-service firms also receive double-digit percentages of their payments by check.
There are many pockets of commerce in which checks are required. Readers of Your Money newsletter wrote in to complain about having to write checks for a number of things, like homeowners' association dues and haircuts, along with dog shows and the occasional long-term care insurance policy.
Some people actually like it this way, though they cite many different reasons. Feelings play a role, as do fees. Fear does, too.
In short, it's complicated, so we won't be rid of checks anytime soon. Here are some of the main reasons.
Handshake (or a Hug)
"Checks are really a fundamental cultural signifier of relationship-based commerce," said Scott Anchin, the vice president of senior operational risk and payments policy for the Independent Community Bankers of America, which wants to reduce the number of check payments. "It's almost like a handshake."
Consider a collection plate at church. Sure, you could fill out a slip to pay by credit card. But there's a ritual associated with writing a check in the moment. "I want to feel the act of giving," said Anne Thomas, 65, who lives in State College, Pa., and works and volunteers in churches.
Then there are gifts. Sending money on a digital payment platform like Venmo feels like the opposite of an embrace, even if it includes emojis, and gift cards can be a pain to use. If you're sending a card through the mail with a monetary gift, a check may feel like the best option.
Fear
For every person who has been a victim of check fraud, there is another who runs into crooks online.
Just one brush with a bad actor on Venmo or similar payment services like PayPal or Zelle -- and any resulting struggle to get the money back -- can be enough to push people back to paper. And given the high volume of security breaches, plenty of people avoid storing their bank account information on some random website just to make it easier to pay fees a few times each year.
If you're new to online payments, the fear of adding an errant zero or missing a payment because of a misplaced click might outweigh the hassle and fraud risk associated with checks.
Simplicity
This is where those pesky homeowners' association dues come in. Imagine that your HOA is self-managed. Now imagine that you drew the short straw and are the treasurer this year.
You have a full-time job and family and friends that you like seeing. Then there are hobbies, and none of those hobbies include dorking out about electronic payment systems at the one local bank that is willing to host your HOA's account without charging you fees, or researching other options.
There are just 10 homeowners in your hypothetical HOA, after all. And so it is more simple if people pay by check.
The 3 Percent Standoff
Rebecca Symmes, 71, just moved to Delaplane, Va., with her eye on retirement and fixing up her land. For this, she needed mowers, tractors, wood chippers and other gear.
Local vendors were fine with her using a credit card, which would have given her airline miles, but they wanted to charge a fee. "The fees ended up amounting to almost as much as an airline ticket," she said. Instead, she wrote checks, because they cost nothing.
"What many credit-card and debit-card users don't realize is that the vendor is paying for their travel rewards points and cash back through the fees charged by the processing companies," said Laura Bair, 61, a hairdresser in Santa Fe, N.M.
After a particularly bad run-in with one of the processors, Ms. Bair went cold turkey on plastic. Now, she takes only cash or checks.
The $ 1.50 Nudge
In Queen Anne's County in Maryland, the service charge for processing a credit-card payment is a 2.95 percent flat fee. If you want to use what the county calls E-checks to pay directly from your bank account, it costs $ 1.50.
But paying by a traditional check is free, minus the postage stamp and whatever value you assign to the time required to find your checkbook and an envelope.
What gives with the surcharge for helping billers avoid paper checks or credit-card fees? Michael A. McCreary, the director and operations manager for Atlanta at Pure Property Management, blames financial service providers for hiking the fees they charge firms like his. But he also understands why they charge those fees, and his residents pay $ 2.95 to make electronic payments directly from their bank accounts.
"While a great deal can be governed through software, there have to be human beings involved, so that's an expense on both ends," he said.
Leverage (and Who Has It)
If you've got money to give, you call the shots, so charities and religious congregations don't want to tell you how to give, if they can help it.
"We're never going to shut people down like they are doing at Target," said Rick Cohen, the chief communications and chief operating officer at the National Council of Nonprofits. "The cost of processing and depositing the check is lower than the cost of not getting the donation at all."
Contractors may be set in their ways. If you've been laying electrical wire as a solo practitioner for 30 years, and checks work fine, why would you need to fuss with Venmo? And when plumbers show up to fix your clogged toilet in your one-and-only-bathroom apartment, they call the shots, not you.
Then, consider gardeners like the one Paul Buckley employs.
Mr. Buckley, 58, lives on five unruly acres in Bucks County, Pa., and a gardener helps tame the land a few hours each week. She does not know of Venmo or Zelle, nor does she want to, Mr. Buckley told me via email.
She used to only accept cash, which meant a drive to the bank for anyone wanting to pay her. So when she "finally said 'OK, I'll accept checks,' it was like 'Hallelujah!"'
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Bank fraud; Fees & charges

Business indexing term: Subject: Bank fraud

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/24/business/paper-check-payment-fraud-scam.html

Title: Why Paper Checks Refuse to Die:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3083785192

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-paper-checks-refuse-die/docview/3083785192/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Paper Checks Refuse to Die

Author: Lieber, Ron

Publication info: Lieber, Ron. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-paper-checks-refuse-die/docview/3083737102/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Target stopped accepting personal checks as a form of payment this month, which might inspire the following question: What took so long?
Check fraud has more than doubled in recent years, and it costs at least $1 for businesses to process each check they receive. Plenty of young adults have never even written one.
But if you haven’t used a check in years and consider it a badge of honor, that may say a lot about where you live and what you pay for. In many industries, checks continue to be a popular form of payment, and sometimes they are required.
According to consumer survey data from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, which tracks the percentage of payments that consumers make by check, the following industries receive the most check payments: Contractors, like electricians and plumbers, get 25% of their payments by check. Charitable and religious organizations are next at 22%. Landlords, government taxing authorities and professional-service firms also receive double-digit percentages of their payments by check.
There are many pockets of commerce in which checks are required. Readers of The New York Times wrote in to complain about having to write checks for a number of things, like homeowners association dues and haircuts, along with dog shows and the occasional long-term care insurance policy.
Some people actually like it this way, though they cite many different reasons. Feelings play a role, as do fees. Fear does, too.
In short, it’s complicated, so we won’t be rid of checks anytime soon. Here are some of the main reasons.
Handshake (or a Hug)
“Checks are really a fundamental cultural signifier of relationship-based commerce,” said Scott Anchin, the vice president of senior operational risk and payments policy for the Independent Community Bankers of America, which wants to reduce the number of check payments. “It’s almost like a handshake.”
Consider a collection plate at church. Sure, you could fill out a slip to pay by credit card. But there’s a ritual associated with writing a check in the moment. “I want to feel the act of giving,” said Anne Thomas, 65, who lives in State College, Pennsylvania, and works and volunteers in churches.
Then there are gifts. Sending money on a digital payment platform like Venmo feels like the opposite of an embrace, even if it includes emojis, and gift cards can be a pain to use. If you’re sending a card through the mail with a monetary gift, a check may feel like the best option.
Fear
For every person who has been a victim of check fraud, there is another who runs into crooks online.
Just one brush with a bad actor on Venmo or similar payment services like PayPal or Zelle — and any resulting struggle to get the money back — can be enough to push people back to paper. And given the high volume of security breaches, plenty of people avoid storing their bank account information on some random website just to make it easier to pay fees a few times each year.
If you’re new to online payments, the fear of adding an errant zero or missing a payment because of a misplaced click might outweigh the hassle and fraud risk associated with checks.
Simplicity
This is where those pesky homeowners association dues come in. Imagine that your HOA is self-managed. Now imagine that you drew the short straw and are the treasurer this year.
You have a full-time job and family and friends that you like seeing. Then there are hobbies, and none of those hobbies include dorking out about electronic payment systems at the one local bank that is willing to host your HOA’s account without charging you fees, or researching other options.
There are just 10 homeowners in your hypothetical HOA, after all. And so it is more simple if people pay by check.
The 3% Standoff
Rebecca Symmes, 71, just moved to Delaplane, Virginia, with her eye on retirement and fixing up her land. For this, she needed mowers, tractors, wood chippers and other gear.
Local vendors were fine with her using a credit card, which would have given her airline miles, but they wanted to charge a fee. “The fees ended up amounting to almost as much as an airline ticket,” she said. Instead, she wrote checks, because they cost nothing.
“What many credit card and debit card users don’t realize is that the vendor is paying for their travel rewards points and cash back through the fees charged by the processing companies,” said Laura Bair, 61, a hairdresser in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
After a particularly bad run-in with one of the processors, Bair went cold turkey on plastic. Now she takes only cash or checks.
The $1.50 Nudge
In Queen Anne’s County in Maryland, the service charge for processing a credit card payment is a 2.95% flat fee. If you want to use what the county calls E-checks to pay directly from your bank account, it costs $1.50.
But paying by a traditional check is free, minus the postage stamp and whatever value you assign to the time required to find your checkbook and an envelope.
What gives with the surcharge for helping billers avoid paper checks or credit card fees? Michael A. McCreary, the director and operations manager for Atlanta at Pure Property Management, blames financial service providers for increasing the fees they charge firms like his. But he also understands why they charge those fees, and his residents pay $2.95 to make electronic payments directly from their bank accounts.
“While a great deal can be governed through software, there have to be human beings involved, so that’s an expense on both ends,” he said.
Leverage (and Who Has It)
If you’ve got money to give, you call the shots, so charities and religious congregations don’t want to tell you how to give, if they can help it.
“We’re never going to shut people down like they are doing at Target,” said Rick Cohen, the chief communications and chief operating officer at the National Council of Nonprofits. “The cost of processing and depositing the check is lower than the cost of not getting the donation at all.”
Contractors may be set in their ways. If you’ve been laying electrical wire as a solo practitioner for 30 years, and checks work fine, why would you need to fuss with Venmo? And when plumbers show up to fix your clogged toilet in your one-and-only-bathroom apartment, they call the shots, not you.
Then, consider gardeners like the one Paul Buckley employs.
Buckley, 58, lives on 5 unruly acres in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, and a gardener helps tame the land a few hours each week. She does not know of Venmo or Zelle, nor does she want to, Buckley said via email.
She used to only accept cash, which meant a drive to the bank for anyone wanting to pay her. So when she “finally said ‘OK, I’ll accept checks,’ it was like, ‘Hallelujah!’”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Bank fraud; Credit card fees; Homeowners associations

Business indexing term: Subject: Bank fraud Credit card fees

Location: Pennsylvania; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Computer Security; Philanthropy; Venmo; Computers And The Internet; Frauds And Swindling; Target Corporation; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Lieber, Ron; Business; Maryland; Banking And Financial Institutions; Retirement; Fines (Penalties); National Council Of Nonprofits; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Hobbies; Personal Finances; Zelle (Early Warning Services Llc); Stamps (Postal); Independent Community Bankers Of America; Wages And Salaries; Bucks County (Pa); Pennsylvania; Greeting Gestures; Atlanta (Ga); State College (Pa); New Mexico; Virginia; Credit Cards; Santa Fe (Nm)

Title: Why Paper Checks Refuse to Die

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 24, 2024

Dateline: 2024-07-24T11:36:19Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3083737102

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-paper-checks-refuse-die/docview/3083737102/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Musk Goes From Trump Skeptic to True Believer: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/musk-goes-trump-skeptic-true-believer/docview/3082754174/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The world's richest man, once deeply skeptical of Donald J. Trump, has now endorsed him and has emerged as a central character in the presidential race.
A little over two months ago, Elon Musk found himself at Montsorrel, the palatial Palm Beach compound of Nelson Peltz, the famed activist investor. Mr. Musk knew the sprawling grounds well, having stayed in the guesthouse.
The topic of conversation was a bit different than usual, though: Mr. Peltz had brought together a group of billionaire conservative financiers -- including Steve Wynn, the Las Vegas casino magnate, and the hedge-funder John Paulson -- to dive into concerns about whether Republicans could seize Senate control, as well as the party's weak ground game, according to a person with direct knowledge of what transpired.
But Mr. Musk had a darker message that spring day. He told the group that this would be the last free election in America -- because if President Biden won, millions of undocumented immigrants would be legalized and democracy would be finished, according to the person.
Mr. Trump had to win, Mr. Musk said. He dispensed some advice for the veteran financiers, who had decades more experience in Republican politics than he did: Their emphasis on political advertising was misplaced, he said. Tesla, his electric car company, barely advertises, he said, but had still built a cult following through word of mouth. Why couldn't Republicans do the same?
The most important thing that the financiers could do, Mr. Musk said, was ask two people to support Mr. Trump, and urge them to ask two more. Two people by two people -- that's how the former president would win.
Mr. Musk has transformed himself from an idealistic supporter of Democrats like Barack Obama into a fierce ally of Mr. Trump, whom he flirted with for months and endorsed last weekend roughly 30 minutes after the former president survived an assassination attempt.
In fact, Mr. Trump's campaign at one point had talked with Mr. Musk about him delivering remarks at this week's Republican National Convention. Mr. Musk said on Thursday he was not speaking.
Mr. Musk is more comfortable than ever revealing his conservative sympathies. But the role that he has played in supporting Republicans financially is not widely known, in part because he has tried to avoid making public donations.
He has emerged as a central character in the presidential race, targeted by the Biden campaign and celebrated as an almost mythical figure by Mr. Trump's advisers. Angry at liberals over immigration, transgender rights and the Biden administration's perceived treatment of Tesla, the mercurial Mr. Musk has undergone a midlife reinvention that has many Republicans salivating about him as the party's moneymaker -- if only he will deliver.
This article is based on interviews with about two dozen of Mr. Musk's political associates, friends and Republican Party allies, many of whom insisted on anonymity to disclose private conversations. Mr. Musk and his aides did not respond to requests for comment.
Woody Johnson, a pre-eminent Republican fund-raiser and Mr. Trump's former ambassador to Britain, said he welcomed Mr. Musk into the party as an ideological convert.
"Explore all ideas -- and come up with the best one," Mr. Johnson quipped in an interview. "There's nobody in the world like Musk. We're lucky as Americans to have him. He is the most innovative -- besides Trump."
Dismissing Trump as a 'stone-cold loser'
Mr. Musk was once allergic to Washington. He maintained a decent relationship with Mr. Obama and made several White House visits to build support for Tesla and SpaceX, his rocket manufacturer. But he generally disliked meeting with other politicians and saw political donations as a necessary evil, according to four people who worked with him.
Days before the 2016 election, he told CNBC that Mr. Trump did not "seem to have the sort of character that reflects well on the United States." After Mr. Trump won, Mr. Musk told some associates that the outcome was proof that they were living in a simulation, according to one person close to him. In 2020, Mr. Musk, in a private conversation with another associate, called Mr. Trump a "stone-cold loser."
In 2022, the former president, for his part, used an expletive to describe the Tesla chief executive at a rally.
Mr. Musk also predicted that Mr. Trump's days as a political force were finished, according to a private message that was viewed by The New York Times, as he prepared to voice support for Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, whose campaign he helped kick off in 2023.
Big promises, little follow-through
Mr. Musk has become an obsession of many Trump officials and Republican fund-raisers, who see him as the party's next great hope -- or a meal ticket for themselves. But over the years, he has acquired a reputation in political circles as something of a flake.
Some conservative activists said they wished that Mr. Musk had followed through more on promises to fund free-speech lawsuits by people who believed that they had been censored on social media.
Mr. Musk can be hard to pin down, and rumors fly about him in Republican circles. In 2023, when Kevin McCarthy was elected as House speaker, the California politician gave a party at the Library of Congress, and some aides were told until shortly beforehand to expect Mr. Musk to show up and speak. But he didn't, disappointing some in the crowd, a person involved in the event recalled.
Mr. Musk has also been unreliable in local politics. He wrote last year on X that he planned to donate $ 100,000 to GrowSF, a centrist group in San Francisco, so it could help defeat a progressive city official. But Mr. Musk did not donate or even contact the group, said Steven Buss, one of GrowSF's founders.
An embrace of dark money
Mr. Musk has said that he tries to stay out of politics, and he has not donated to a federal political group since the 2020 cycle, according to campaign finance records. He has gone to great lengths to avoid leaving a public footprint of the contributions he does make.
Indeed, he learned a tough lesson when he made his largest disclosed gift ever, a $ 50,000 donation in 2017, to the McCarthy Victory Fund, a group aligned with Mr. McCarthy. The disclosure of that donation angered liberals. He learned from that experience to prioritize giving to dark-money organizations, a person familiar with his thinking recalled.
In recent communications with Republicans, Mr. Musk and his associates have expressed a desire not to make political contributions to groups whose donations must be legally disclosed. He told a friend a few months ago that he wanted to find a way to support Trump but didn't want to do it publicly, the friend recalled.
During the Republican presidential primary race, Mr. Musk's team had detailed talks with allies of Vivek Ramaswamy about making a major donation to a dark-money group backing the entrepreneur's candidacy, according to a person briefed on the talks. Mr. Musk attended two fund-raisers for Mr. Ramaswamy, in California and Texas, two people briefed said, but he ultimately declined to cut a check.
In 2023, he strongly considered making a significant political donation to the American Action Network, a 501(c) (4) dark-money group steered by Mr. McCarthy's political operation, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions. It's not clear if he gave.
The tug of war
As Mr. Musk sought help on politics, the people he turned to sought to influence him.
He had gotten to know Mr. McCarthy over the last decade thanks to the former speaker's advocacy for SpaceX. They now text frequently, and Mr. Musk has often relied on Mr. McCarthy over the years for advice on politics and lobbying.
Mr. McCarthy has been eager to highlight his relationship with Mr. Musk, and has gone to great lengths to cultivate him, according to people familiar with their relationship.
He interviewed the billionaire at an exclusive conference in Sea Island, Ga., hosted by the conservative American Enterprise Institute, and invited Mr. Musk to headline a fund-raising retreat for Mr. McCarthy's donors in Wyoming. Mr. Musk also flew to Washington for the congressman's birthday last year.
Mr. McCarthy has helped develop Mr. Musk's relationship with Mr. Trump, but he has not been alone. Three close friends of the former president -- Mr. Peltz, Mr. Wynn and Steve Witkoff, whose firm invested in the billionaire's Twitter takeover -- plus Mr. Musk's emerging confidant, Diesel Peltz, a son of Nelson Peltz -- have played a role in encouraging Mr. Musk to draw close to Mr. Trump, according to people familiar with the relationships. Mr. Musk also talks frequently with Mr. Ramaswamy, who has become a Trump surrogate, another person said.
Mr. Wynn said in an interview that Mr. Musk was "dedicating himself to making sure this election ends up properly" but downplayed his own role.
"He did that without my help," he said. "Elon is a self-propelled rocket."
Some of Mr. Musk's friends in Silicon Valley have also bent his ear, including members of the so-called PayPal Mafia, a group of early executives at the payments company that includes the Trump donors David Sacks and Ken Howery, the people said.
Mr. Musk used to live primarily in Los Angeles, but people close to him said his politics had been shaped by his more conservative social circle in his new home state of Texas. Joe Lonsdale, a co-founder of Palantir who lives in Texas, and his aides have spent considerable time with Mr. Musk talking about politics, and Mr. Musk has told others that he is worried about what would happen to his businesses if Texas went blue, the people said.
But some of Mr. Musk's more liberal friends and associates, have expressed unhappiness to him about his rightward drift, according to three people familiar with the situation. Some said they have received private assurances from Mr. Musk that he is not donating to support Mr. Trump.
The extremist direction of Mr. Musk has bothered his own high-profile, celebrity lawyer, Alex Spiro, according to two people who have spoken to him. Mr. Spiro, who declined to comment, has encouraged Mr. Musk not to alienate Democrats from his businesses, citing the famous quip from Michael Jordan that "Republicans buy sneakers, too," one of the people said.
The final turn to Trump
It appears those liberal friends are losing the tug of war. Mr. Musk met with Mr. Trump in March and now talks with him directly on occasion, according to people familiar with the relationship. The two have spoken about electric vehicles, as well as technology like so-called deepfake videos, the former president has told donors who relayed his remarks.
During the Trump term, Mr. Musk once asked his top executives at Tesla how many of them had voted for Mr. Trump, and was alarmed to hear that none of them had, according to a person with knowledge of the meeting.
"I have had some conversations with him, and he does call me out of the blue for no reason," Mr. Musk said last month at Tesla's annual shareholder meeting.
Mr. Musk and Mr. Sacks organized a private dinner this spring in Los Angeles with several other anti-Biden billionaires, who talked about ways to oppose Mr. Biden's re-election.
Whether Mr. Musk might financially support the Republican ticket has flummoxed Mr. Trump's aides. For much of this year, Mr. Musk entertained to friends the notion of an endorsement, or at least urging his followers explicitly not to vote for Mr. Biden, according to two people who spoke directly with Mr. Musk. The billionaire told these people that he wanted to wait until the president formally captured the Democratic nomination before he made a proclamation.
Then came the assassination attempt.
Within an hour of the shooting, Mr. Musk went on X and endorsed Mr. Trump.
Mr. Lonsdale has helped start a new super PAC that its donors say will fund an aggressive field program to aid Mr. Trump, and several of Mr. Musk's close friends have pooled their millions behind the group. The Wall Street Journal reported that Mr. Musk had spoken of donating $ 45 million per month to the group -- energizing both the Trump and Biden teams. But Mr. Musk has told people close to him that the figure is false, and while people close to the group said that while they expect him to give, they don't know how much.
In recent weeks, Mr. Musk privately lobbied Mr. Trump to choose Senator J.D. Vance of Ohio as his running mate. He celebrated vociferously on Monday after Mr. Vance was announced as the pick.
Trevor Traina, a Republican fund-raiser in San Francisco who served in the Trump administration and knows Mr. Musk socially, said he saw parallels between the two men.
"He has had to walk the same road as Trump -- silenced, targeted, canceled -- and within the last couple weeks," Mr. Traina said of Mr. Musk, "he has decided it's time to take action."
Maureen Farrell and Kirsten Grind contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.
Maureen Farrell and Kirsten Grind contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.
Photograph Elon Musk, left, and President Donald J. Trump in 2017 at the White House. Mr. Musk recently endorsed the former president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Nelson Peltz, the activist investor, is said to have played a role in encouraging Mr. Musk to draw closer to Mr. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Kevin McCarthy in 2023, then the House speaker. In 2017, Mr. Musk gave $ 50,000 to a group aligned with Mr. McCarthy. (PHOTOGRPAH BY HAIYUN JIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14.

Subject: Fund raising; Local elections; Donations; Political activism; Presidential elections; Political finance; Political advertising; Shareholder activism; Political parties; Candidates

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations Shareholder activism

Location: California; United States--US

People: Peltz, Nelson; Trump, Donald J; Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Space Ex ploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/18/us/politics/elon-musk-trump.html

Title: Musk Goes From Trump Skeptic to True Believer:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 20, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3082754174

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/musk-goes-trump-skeptic-true-believer/docview/3082754174/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Elon Musk Chose Trump

Author: Schleifer, Theodore; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-elon-musk-chose-trump/docview/3082701841/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MILWAUKEE — A little over two months ago, Elon Musk found himself at Montsorrel, the palatial Palm Beach compound of Nelson Peltz, a famed activist investor. Musk knew the sprawling grounds well, having stayed in the guesthouse at the Florida property.
The topic of conversation was a bit different than usual, though: Peltz had brought together a group of billionaire conservative financiers — including Steve Wynn, the Las Vegas casino magnate, and hedge-funder John Paulson — to dive into concerns about whether Republicans could seize Senate control, as well as the party’s weak ground game, according to a person with direct knowledge of what transpired.
But Musk had a darker message that spring day. He told the group that this would be the last free election in America — because if President Joe Biden won, millions of people living in the country illegally would be legalized and democracy would be finished, according to the person.
Former President Donald Trump had to win, Musk said. He dispensed some advice for the veteran financiers, who had decades more experience in Republican politics than he did: Their emphasis on political advertising was misplaced, he said. Tesla, his electric car company, barely advertises, he said, but had still built a cult following through word of mouth. Why couldn’t Republicans do the same?
The most important thing that the financiers could do, Musk said, was ask two people to support Trump, and urge them to ask two more. Two people by two people — that’s how the former president would win.
Musk has transformed himself from an idealistic supporter of Democrats like Barack Obama into a fierce ally of Trump, whom he flirted with for months and endorsed last weekend roughly 30 minutes after the former president survived an assassination attempt.
In fact, Trump’s campaign at one point had talked with Musk about him delivering remarks at this week’s Republican National Convention. Musk said Thursday that he was not speaking.
Musk is more comfortable than ever revealing his conservative sympathies. But the role that he has played in supporting Republicans financially is not widely known, in part because he has tried to avoid making public donations.
He has emerged as a central character in the presidential race, targeted by the Biden campaign and celebrated as an almost mythical figure by Trump’s advisers. Angry at liberals over immigration, transgender rights and the Biden administration’s perceived treatment of Tesla, the mercurial Musk has undergone a midlife reinvention that has many Republicans salivating about him as the party’s moneymaker — if only he will deliver.
This article is based on interviews with about two dozen of Musk’s political associates, friends and Republican Party allies, many of whom insisted on anonymity to disclose private conversations. Musk and his aides did not respond to requests for comment.
Woody Johnson, a preeminent Republican fundraiser and Trump’s former ambassador to Britain, said he welcomed Musk into the party as an ideological convert.
“Explore all ideas — and come up with the best one,” Johnson quipped in an interview. “There’s nobody in the world like Musk. We’re lucky as Americans to have him. He is the most innovative — besides Trump.”
Dismissing Trump as a ‘Stone-Cold Loser’
Musk was once allergic to Washington. He maintained a decent relationship with Obama and made several White House visits to build support for Tesla and SpaceX, his rocket manufacturer. But he generally disliked meeting with other politicians and saw political donations as a necessary evil, according to four people who worked with him.
Days before the 2016 election, he told CNBC that Trump did not “seem to have the sort of character that reflects well on the United States.” After Trump won, Musk told some associates that the outcome was proof that they were living in a simulation, according to one person close to him. In 2020, in a private conversation with another associate, Musk called Trump a “stone-cold loser.”
In 2022, the former president, for his part, used an expletive to describe the Tesla CEO at a rally.
Musk also predicted that Trump’s days as a political force were finished, according to a private message that was viewed by The New York Times, as he prepared to voice support for Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, whose campaign he helped kick off in 2023.
Big Promises, Little Follow-Through
Musk has become an obsession of many Trump officials and Republican fundraisers, who see him as the party’s next great hope — or a meal ticket for themselves. But over the years, he has acquired a reputation in political circles as something of a flake.
Some conservative activists said they wished that Musk had followed through more on promises to fund free speech lawsuits by people who believed that they had been censored on social media.
Musk can be hard to pin down, and rumors fly about him in Republican circles. In 2023, when Kevin McCarthy was elected as House speaker, the California politician gave a party at the Library of Congress, and some aides were told until shortly beforehand to expect Musk to show up and speak. But he didn’t, disappointing some in the crowd, a person involved in the event recalled.
Musk has also been unreliable in local politics. He wrote last year on his social platform, X, that he planned to donate $100,000 to GrowSF, a centrist group in San Francisco, so it could help defeat a progressive city official. But Musk did not donate or even contact the group, said Steven Buss, one of GrowSF’s founders.
An Embrace of Dark Money
Musk has said that he tries to stay out of politics, and he has not donated to a federal political group since the 2020 cycle, according to campaign finance records. He has gone to great lengths to avoid leaving a public footprint of the contributions he does make.
Indeed, he learned a tough lesson when he made his largest disclosed gift ever, a $50,000 donation in 2017, to the McCarthy Victory Fund, a group aligned with McCarthy. The disclosure of that donation angered liberals. He learned from that experience to prioritize giving to dark-money organizations, a person familiar with his thinking recalled.
In recent communications with Republicans, Musk and his associates have expressed a desire not to make political contributions to groups whose donations must be legally disclosed. He told a friend a few months ago that he wanted to find a way to support Trump but didn’t want to do it publicly, the friend recalled.
During the Republican presidential primary race, Musk’s team had detailed talks with allies of Vivek Ramaswamy about making a major donation to a dark-money group backing the entrepreneur’s candidacy, according to a person briefed on the talks. Musk attended two fundraisers for Ramaswamy, in California and Texas, two people briefed said, but he ultimately declined to cut a check.
In 2023, he strongly considered making a significant political donation to the American Action Network, a 501(c) (4) dark-money group steered by McCarthy’s political operation, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions. It’s not clear if he gave.
The Tug of War
As Musk sought help on politics, the people he turned to sought to influence him.
He had gotten to know McCarthy over the last decade thanks to the former speaker’s advocacy for SpaceX. They now text frequently, and Musk has often relied on McCarthy over the years for advice on politics and lobbying.
McCarthy has been eager to highlight his relationship with Musk, and has gone to great lengths to cultivate him, according to people familiar with their relationship.
He interviewed the billionaire at an exclusive conference in Sea Island, Georgia, hosted by the conservative American Enterprise Institute, and invited Musk to headline a fundraising retreat for McCarthy’s donors in Wyoming. Musk also flew to Washington for the congressman’s birthday last year.
McCarthy has helped develop Musk’s relationship with Trump, but he has not been alone. Three close friends of the former president — Peltz, Wynn and Steve Witkoff, whose firm invested in the billionaire’s Twitter takeover — plus Musk’s emerging confidant, Diesel Peltz, a son of Nelson Peltz — have played a role in encouraging Musk to draw close to Trump, according to people familiar with the relationships. Musk also talks frequently with Ramaswamy, who has become a Trump surrogate, another person said.
Wynn said in an interview that Musk was “dedicating himself to making sure this election ends up properly” but downplayed his own role.
“He did that without my help,” he said. “Elon is a self-propelled rocket.”
Some of Musk’s friends in Silicon Valley have also bent his ear, including members of the so-called PayPal Mafia, a group of early executives at the payments company that includes Trump donors David Sacks and Ken Howery, the people said.
Musk used to live primarily in Los Angeles, but people close to him said his politics had been shaped by his more conservative social circle in his new home state of Texas. Joe Lonsdale, a co-founder of Palantir who lives in Texas, and his aides have spent considerable time with Musk talking about politics, and Musk has told others that he is worried about what would happen to his businesses if Texas went blue, the people said.
But some of Musk’s more liberal friends and associates have expressed unhappiness to him about his rightward drift, according to three people familiar with the situation. Some said they have received private assurances from Musk that he is not donating to support Trump.
The extremist direction of Musk has bothered his own high-profile, celebrity lawyer, Alex Spiro, according to two people who have spoken to him. Spiro, who declined to comment, has encouraged Musk not to alienate Democrats from his businesses, citing the famous quip from Michael Jordan that “Republicans buy sneakers, too,” one of the people said.
The Final Turn to Trump
It appears those liberal friends are losing the tug of war. Musk met with Trump in March and now talks with him directly on occasion, according to people familiar with the relationship. The two have spoken about electric vehicles, as well as technology like so-called deepfake videos, the former president has told donors who relayed his remarks.
During the Trump term, Musk once asked his top executives at Tesla how many of them had voted for Trump and was alarmed to hear that none of them had, according to a person with knowledge of the meeting.
“I have had some conversations with him, and he does call me out of the blue for no reason,” Musk said last month at Tesla’s annual shareholder meeting.
Musk and Sacks organized a private dinner this spring in Los Angeles with several other anti-Biden billionaires, who talked about ways to oppose Biden’s reelection.
Whether Musk might financially support the Republican ticket has flummoxed Trump’s aides. For much of this year, Musk entertained to friends the notion of an endorsement, or at least urging his followers explicitly not to vote for Biden, according to two people who spoke directly with Musk. The billionaire told these people that he wanted to wait until the president formally captured the Democratic nomination before he made a proclamation.
Then came the assassination attempt.
Within an hour of the shooting, Musk went on X and endorsed Trump.
Lonsdale has helped start a new super political action committee that its donors say will fund an aggressive field program to aid Trump, and several of Musk’s close friends have pooled their millions behind the group. The Wall Street Journal reported that Musk had spoken of donating $45 million per month to the group — energizing both the Trump and Biden teams. But Musk has told people close to him that the figure is false, and while people close to the group said that while they expect him to give, they don’t know how much.
In recent weeks, Musk privately lobbied Trump to choose Sen. JD Vance of Ohio as his running mate. He celebrated vociferously Monday after Vance was announced as the pick.
Trevor Traina, a Republican fundraiser in San Francisco who served in the Trump administration and knows Musk socially, said he saw parallels between the two men.
“He has had to walk the same road as Trump — silenced, targeted, canceled — and within the last couple weeks,” Traina said of Musk, “he has decided it’s time to take action.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fund raising; Local elections; Political activism; Political finance; Political parties; Political campaigns; Donations; Presidential elections; Political advertising; Shareholder activism

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations Shareholder activism

Location: New York; United States--US; California; Florida

People: Peltz, Nelson; Musk, Elon; McCarthy, Kevin

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

Identifier / keyword: Liver; Republican National Convention; Wall Street Journal; Newspapers; Las Vegas (Nev); Wyoming; Primaries And Caucuses; Political Advertising; Obama, Barack; Senate; Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Endorsements; Florida; Spiro, Alex (1982 ); United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Conservatism (Us Politics); Private Spaceflight; Georgia; Presidential Election Of 2020; Elections; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; California; Liberalism (Us Politics); Mccarthy, Kevin (1965 ); Automobiles; Palm Beach County (Fla); Nonprofit Organizations; Cnbc; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Wynn, Stephen A; Vance, J D; Social Media; Presidential Election Of 2024; Ohio; American Enterprise Institute For Public Policy Research; X (Formerly Twitter); United States Politics And Government; Texas; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Musk, Elon; Los Angeles (Calif); News And News Media; Sacks, David O; Rumors And Misinformation; Palantir Technologies; Democratic Party; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; San Francisco (Calif); Federal Aid (Us); Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Space And Astronomy; Republican Party; Library Of Congress; Palm Beach (Fla); Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Peltz, Nelson; Desantis, Ron; Assassinations And Attempted Assassinations; Censorship; American Action Network; Cold And Cold Spells; Campaign Finance; New York Times; Memory; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: How Elon Musk Chose Trump

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 19, 2024

Dateline: 2024-07-19T22:26:39Z

Publisher: New York Times Compa ny

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3082701841

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-elon-musk-chose-trump/docview/3082701841/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Apology Broke the Ice As Vance Courted Trump: [National Desk]

Author: Swan, Jonathan; Haberman, Maggie

Publication info: Swan, Jonathan; Haberman, Maggie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/apology-broke-ice-as-vance-courted-trump/docview/3082051612/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The meeting got off to a bad start.
J.D. Vance walked into Donald J. Trump's office at Mar-a-Lago on a warm winter afternoon in February 2021. The former president had a thick stack of papers on his desk: printouts of Mr. Vance's copious broadsides against Mr. Trump. Mr. Vance's past criticisms had included an essay in one of Mr. Trump's least favorite magazines, The Atlantic, where Mr. Vance described Mr. Trump as "cultural heroin" -- a purveyor of false promises to the white working class.
Mr. Trump, using an expletive, bluntly told Mr. Vance: You said some nasty stuff about me. The discussion that followed was described in detail by two people with knowledge of the meeting who insisted on anonymity to talk about a private conversation.
Mr. Vance's next move was crucial. This was the first time he was meeting Mr. Trump, and Mr. Vance needed the former president to like him or at least leave the meeting with an open mind. Mr. Vance -- the author of "Hillbilly Elegy," a best-selling memoir about his troubled upbringing and the struggles and pathologies of the white working class -- was running for the open U.S. Senate seat in Ohio as a Republican populist, a Never Trumper turned pro-Trumper.
Mr. Vance decided to immediately apologize. He told Mr. Trump that he had bought into what he described as media lies and that he was sorry he got it wrong. Of all people, Mr. Vance told Mr. Trump, Mr. Vance himself should have understood.
Mr. Trump agreed, telling Mr. Vance that he should have understood because Mr. Vance had written the "Hillbilly Elegy" book. His implication was that Mr. Vance should have supported him because Mr. Trump's own base of non-college-educated voters angry about globalization, immigration and foreign wars were exactly the people Mr. Vance purported to represent.
At that point, Mr. Trump seemed disarmed, and the meeting went on for almost two hours. They discussed the 2020 election and the Ohio race, but mostly they talked about the difficulties of politics. It had been less than a month since Mr. Trump left the White House a pariah, in the wake of a pro-Trump mob storming the Capitol after the president had spent two months lying about a stolen election.
Mr. Trump closed the conversation by asking Mr. Vance what he wanted. Mr. Trump told him that everyone else had already been down to Mar-a-Lago begging for his endorsement -- a reference to Mr. Vance's potential opponents in the Ohio Senate primary.
Mr. Vance, who along with a spokesman for Mr. Trump declined to comment for this article, told the former president he wasn't going to do that.
Mr. Trump, surprised, asked Mr. Vance if he wanted the endorsement.
Mr. Vance said that of course he wanted it, but that Mr. Trump should let him run his race, and see how he did. Mr. Vance said he would not be the type of candidate who would attack the former president when the media came after him.
Mr. Trump seemed intrigued. All right, Mr. Trump replied, telling Mr. Vance, whom he called J.D., to take care and check in from time to time.
Mr. Trump had relatively little personal contact with Mr. Vance after that first meeting, but he took note as Mr. Vance kicked off his Senate campaign in July 2021, ran circles around his primary opponents in debates and became a frequent presence on "Tucker Carlson Tonight," at the time the top-rated show on cable television.
Mr. Trump was impressed. He told allies he thought Mr. Vance was smart and handsome -- "those beautiful blue eyes," he'd say repeatedly -- great on TV and a killer at the debates. Mr. Trump, who split with allies at the influential conservative group Club for Growth in backing Mr. Vance, felt validated when Mr. Vance won the general election against his Democratic rival, Representative Tim Ryan, and then immediately became one of Mr. Trump's most vocal supporters in the Senate.
When Mr. Trump announced his third campaign for president, in November 2022, at a time when most Republicans wanted nothing to do with him, Mr. Vance distinguished himself by immediately signaling to Mr. Trump's staff that Mr. Vance was all in.
Since then, Mr. Vance has played his cards nearly perfectly, making himself visible at key moments, promoting himself assertively but not too much, publicly backing Mr. Trump during his Manhattan criminal trial and having the right people champion him to the former president at the right time.
That day in early 2021, Mr. Vance was ushered into Mr. Trump's office at Mar-a-Lago by one of the most secretive donors in G.O.P. politics: Peter Thiel, the billionaire founder of PayPal who broke with Silicon Valley to support Mr. Trump for president in 2016. Mr. Trump's eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., was at the meeting, too.
Though initially skeptical of Mr. Vance's loyalty, Donald Trump Jr. became close friends with him over the course of the Senate campaign. He became a huge asset when allies of Mr. Vance's rivals for running mate tried desperately to undermine Mr. Vance with a pressure campaign aimed at changing the elder Mr. Trump's mind.
Now, the 39-year-old Mr. Vance has become the party's vice-presidential nominee.
An experienced fighter in the modern culture wars, Mr. Vance is in many ways a different type of running mate from the one Mr. Trump selected in 2016: Mike Pence was a Ronald Reagan conservative and evangelical governor whose penchant for spontaneous prayer unnerved the man under whom he served. In Mr. Vance, Mr. Trump is picking someone whose impulses for fighting against existing institutions and challenging global systems match his own.
Yet the arc of how Mr. Trump made his choices in 2016 and in 2024 had similarities. He had described both Mr. Pence and Mr. Vance as "out of central casting." Then Mr. Trump began to question his options and solicited the opinions of everyone he spoke to, before ultimately returning where he began.
But the lead-up to Mr. Trump's selection of Mr. Vance was even more chaotic than it was with Mr. Pence. It was uncertain down to the final hours, with a frantic lobbying effort until the last possible moment by anti-Vance forces, including Rupert Murdoch and his allies, with some of it playing out in public.
Mr. Trump seemed uncertain right until the end, privately raising some of the negative comments Mr. Vance had made about him in the past. Allies of Mr. Vance, including Elon Musk and Tucker Carlson, ran a counter campaign to reassure Mr. Trump about the selection, with supportive calls to the former president continuing until the moment Mr. Trump finally told Mr. Vance of his decision, on Monday afternoon, less than half an hour before he announced his choice on social media.
The Debate Moment
Six months into his Senate campaign, Mr. Vance was seen by most as the walking dead.
Throughout the fall of 2021, he was savaged in the Ohio Republican Senate primary by television commercials that re-aired his past condemnations of Mr. Trump. Mr. Vance's support fell precipitously in private polling, and even Mr. Trump privately voiced concerns about the impact the ads were having in the race. Many Republican operatives believed Mr. Vance's chances of surviving the onslaught were close to zero.
He began his comeback on a debate stage.
At a March 2022 debate among the crowded Senate Republican field, Mr. Vance's two main rivals -- Josh Mandel, a former Ohio state representative and treasurer, and the businessman Mike Gibbons -- nearly came to blows on the stage.
Mr. Vance seized the moment. He described their fight as "ridiculous" and confronted Mr. Mandel for using Mr. Mandel's military service as a "political football" earlier in the debate, calling it "disgraceful," setting off a burst of applause in the room. The moment presaged Mr. Vance as a deft performer on his feet, one who would eventually eviscerate his general election rival, Mr. Ryan, on the debate stage.
Mr. Trump relished that primary debate confrontation and felt that it showed Mr. Vance had what it took. Mr. Trump has always paid close attention to debate performances, crediting his own showing in the 2016 debates for his victory over Hillary Clinton. He told allies he liked what he'd seen from Mr. Vance. One month after the debate, Mr. Trump formally endorsed him.
Mr. Vance was helped in that race also by conservative media relationships that would prove not just durable but critical in helping him become Mr. Trump's running mate.
The most important of those relationships have been with Mr. Carlson, the former Fox News host; the reporter Matthew Boyle at Breitbart; and the political activist Charlie Kirk. Their support meant that in the conservative media ecosystem -- the arena that decides the political life span of the average Republican -- Mr. Vance was a made man.
The East Palestine Visit
Mr. Trump announced his own candidacy for president a week after the November 2022 midterms.
His campaign launch was a disaster.
High-profile MAGA candidates endorsed by Mr. Trump had lost midterm races they should have won. Mr. Trump was blamed for the disappointing results, and most Republican elected officials stayed away from his presidential kickoff event at Mar-a-Lago.
Shortly after he announced his campaign, Mr. Trump ignited a string of controversies, including calling for the termination of parts of the Constitution to overturn his 2020 defeat and dining with Kanye West, a rapper whose stream of vitriol against Jews stirred outrage, and Nick Fuentes, a notorious white supremacist.
Mr. Trump found himself abandoned by many in the Republican-leaning media, with Fox News extolling his main presidential primary rival, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, and his favorite newspaper, The New York Post, giving Mr. DeSantis the headline title: "DeFuture." A chorus of prominent conservatives was saying it was time for fresh blood.
Mr. Vance was not among them.
He signaled privately to Mr. Trump's team, shortly after the midterms, that he planned to endorse the former president. He said he wanted to make an intellectual argument for Mr. Trump that would resonate with the donor class and other elites, according to a person briefed on the exchanges. He ended up announcing his endorsement in late January 2023 in an opinion piece in The Wall Street Journal, praising Mr. Trump's foreign policy. The proactive support was reassuring to the Trump team amid so many threatened defections at a time when the campaign seemed rudderless.
The Trump campaign found its direction a month later, in February. It started with a visit to a derailment site of a train that had been carrying hazardous chemicals through East Palestine, Ohio.
President Biden and his advisers had been criticized for days for not visiting the site, and Mr. Vance was among the most vocal critics of the federal response. Mr. Biden's administration blamed policy rollbacks from Mr. Trump's era for the derailment.
Mr. Trump's son Don Jr. soon had a thought: What if his father visited the site? He ran the idea past both Mr. Vance and Mr. Trump's top adviser, Susie Wiles, and a plan was soon in place. Flying aboard his plane, dubbed Trump Force One, from Florida to Ohio for the event, Mr. Trump was watching Fox News. Mr. Vance was on the air. The former president turned to his son and observed that Mr. Vance had been "incredible, hasn't he?" -- using an expletive to underscore the point.
When the plane landed, it was clear that Mr. Trump was stepping into a media vacuum created by Mr. Biden's absence. Walking down the movable stairs from his plane on the tarmac, Mr. Trump appeared on the extensive television coverage as if he were still president.
He traveled in a motorcade, distributed red MAGA caps to local residents and delivered water bottles to the community -- all on TV. He bought burgers for first responders at a local McDonald's.
Mr. Vance stood alongside him throughout the day, the two men condemning federal officials they said had left the region behind. It was an early test of what they might be like on a campaign trail together.
The Decision
By the fall of 2023, chatter was growing that Mr. Vance was a top contender to be Mr. Trump's running mate. But while advisers to both men had discussed the possibility informally, it had not become a topic of conversation between Mr. Trump and Mr. Vance.
Mr. Trump plainly liked Mr. Vance, according to people close to the former president. The chemistry between the two -- one of the ingredients in a hire that Mr. Trump values most -- was clear.
Mr. Vance had approached the relationship differently from a number of people who have grown close to Mr. Trump over the years. He valued scarcity. He did not call Mr. Trump constantly, and his list of requests was extremely limited. He sought help from Mr. Trump on only two matters: He asked him to endorse the businessman Bernie Moreno in his run for the Senate in Ohio, and he asked Mr. Trump to support a rail safety bill that Mr. Vance cosponsored with the state's Democratic senator, Sherrod Brown. Mr. Trump did both.
Mr. Vance was slow to believe Mr. Trump would actually pick him as a running mate, people close to him said. His view started to change around the New Hampshire presidential primary in late January, as he campaigned for Mr. Trump in the state and drew a warm response.
He also began to fit the part more visibly. Mr. Trump commented to allies on how good Mr. Vance was looking -- how his beard appeared more groomed, how his suits fit better and how he'd lost weight. Mr. Vance had been working out and going for long runs.
Mr. Trump has also been solicitous of Mr. Vance's wife, Usha. About a month ago, the Vances were at an event with Mr. Trump when he asked Usha how she liked political life. When Ms. Vance gave an anodyne answer, Mr. Trump replied that his wife hated it, too, adding an expletive. Ms. Vance laughed at Mr. Trump's answer, according to a person briefed on the interaction.
Mr. Vance's allies began an aggressive strategy to show he could be successful in two areas that preoccupied Mr. Trump: performing well in adversarial interviews on mainstream news channels, and bringing in new financial supporters.
Mr. Vance's advisers booked him on a slew of shows on CNN, NBC, ABC and CBS, including one appearance that caught Mr. Trump's eye, with the CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer, shortly after Mr. Trump was convicted in his Manhattan criminal trial. Mr. Vance was the first vice-presidential hopeful to show up in court to support Mr. Trump, and he stepped up his aggressive televised defense of Mr. Trump after the conviction.
Mr. Vance helped pave the way for Mr. Trump with some Silicon Valley donors. He spent months working on David Sacks, an entrepreneur whom Mr. Vance has called "one of his closest confidants in politics," to support Mr. Trump. That effort resulted in a $ 12 million event for the Trump campaign. Mr. Sacks said at the event that it "would never have happened" without Mr. Vance's support, according to a person familiar with his remarks.
Mr. Musk, one of the world's richest men and the owner of the website X, has emerged as a quiet ally of Mr. Vance's, according to two people briefed on the relationship. Mr. Musk has viewed Mr. Biden's re-election as an existential crisis for the nation and told Mr. Trump directly that he should choose Mr. Vance as his running mate, describing the Trump-Vance pairing as "beautiful," according to one of the people with knowledge of their relationship. Mr. Musk did not respond to requests for comment.
Yet it was Don Jr. and his allies who pushed Mr. Vance most insistently -- publicly and privately.
For most of the year, Mr. Trump's associates have said that the former president was not especially enamored of any of his V.P. choices, doubtful that any of them would make much of a difference to his chances in November. And yet in recent weeks, he told people that he liked the idea of someone who could carry on his MAGA legacy, something Mr. Trump believed the two other top contenders -- Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota -- were not as well positioned as Mr. Vance to accomplish.
Mr. Trump continued playing Hamlet of sorts, polling nearly everyone he encountered about what they thought he should do.
That was reminiscent of 2016, when Mr. Trump had told everyone for weeks that Mr. Pence was "out of central casting," but still insisted he hadn't made up his mind and was receptive to last-minute pitches from allies of Newt Gingrich and Chris Christie. He ultimately offered the job to Mr. Pence while telling Mr. Christie that he hadn't done so, before finally making the choice public.
Mr. Trump listened to a number of last-minute efforts to block Mr. Vance's selection.
The anti-Vance campaign was intense, widespread and carried right up until the final hours before Mr. Trump announced his choice. Several major Republican donors, including the hedge fund magnate Ken Griffin, as well as the media mogul Rupert Murdoch, tried to persuade Mr. Trump not to choose Mr. Vance. (A Griffin spokesman wouldn't address what he told Mr. Trump, saying only that there were a number of good options and that Mr. Trump and his team had been "thoughtful.")
Mr. Murdoch even went so far as to dispatch senior executives and columnists at The New York Post to meet with Mr. Trump and dissuade him from picking Mr. Vance. Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign manager who is also close to Melania Trump, argued privately that other options, such as Mr. Rubio, were better, according to several people with knowledge of her outreach effort.
The Murdoch crowd lobbied aggressively for Mr. Burgum, in private and in editorials in The New York Post. When the anti-Vance forces made their arguments to Mr. Trump, they focused on Mr. Vance's prior criticisms of the former president and on Mr. Vance's youth and inexperience. But in many cases, these G.O.P. donors were motivated because they loathed Mr. Vance's ideology and policy positions, especially his staunch opposition to U.S. support for Ukraine against Russia.
Old comments made by Mr. Vance about Mr. Trump began to circulate on social media, and were put in front of the former president, who indicated to associates that they had given him pause.
But Mr. Trump was repelled by a Daily Mail article describing Mr. Burgum weeping at various moments -- "When I see a man cry I view it as a weakness," he once said. Allies also brought to Mr. Trump's attention the fact that Mr. Burgum had signed one of the most restrictive abortion laws in the country, a point that could become a liability in a general election.
Mr. Trump told associates that he viewed Mr. Rubio as disloyal for having campaigned in 2016 against Mr. Rubio's friend and mentor, Jeb Bush, and wondered whether he could be trusted.
In the final days, all three leading candidates made direct pitches to Mr. Trump.
Mr. Burgum let it be known that he had no interest in serving in another role in the Trump administration, a stance that did not play well with Mr. Trump, who had mused about making him the secretary of energy, according to two people briefed on the matter.
Mr. Vance was flown to Mar-a-Lago late last week aboard the plane of Steve Witkoff, a real estate investor and one of Mr. Trump's few close friends.
When word got back to Tucker Carlson a few weeks ago that Mr. Trump might be wavering on Mr. Vance, he intervened. Mr. Carlson, who was visiting Australia on a speaking tour, phoned Mr. Trump and delivered an apocalyptic warning, according to two people briefed on their conversation. He told Mr. Trump that Mr. Rubio could not be trusted -- that he would work against him and would try to lead America into nuclear war. Mr. Carlson, who declined to comment for this article, told Mr. Trump that Mr. Burgum could not be trusted, either.
Mr. Carlson told Mr. Trump in that June phone call that he believed that if he chose a "neocon" as his V.P. -- an abbreviation for Republicans who favor using U.S. power to implant democracy abroad -- then the U.S. intelligence agencies would have every incentive to assassinate Mr. Trump in order to get their preferred president.
He also warned against listening to the advice of allies of Mr. Carlson's former employer, Mr. Murdoch. "When your enemies are pushing a running mate on you," Mr. Carlson told Mr. Trump, referring to the Murdoch empire, "it's a pretty good sign you should ignore them."
Theodore Schleifer contributed reporting.
Theodore Schleifer contributed reporting.
Photograph ONLINE: Donald J. Trump with J.D. Vance. Follow Thursday's developments at nytimes.com, including live updates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); EYES ON THE SENATE: When he began his campaign for a vacant Ohio seat, J.D. Vance went to Donald J. Trump to apologize for his earlier criticisms. He won Mr. Trump's endorsement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY DEAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS); A TURNING POINT: Mr. Trump's early campaigning in 2022 was energized by a visit to East Palestine, Ohio, where a derailment had traumatized the community. Mr. Vance was with him throughout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MADDIE McGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12); Mr. Vance this week. Mr. Trump said he was "straight out of central casting." (A12-A13); ANOINTED: Despite an intense campaign against Mr. Vance from major Republican donors and the media mogul Rupert Murdoch, Mr. Trump put him on the ticket. Below, in Milwaukee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HAIYUN JIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); SPECULATION GROWING: The pair in March. By the fall of 2023, chatter swelled that Mr. Vance was a top contender. But Mr. Trump played his cards close, polling nearly everyone he encountered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MADDIE McGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12, A13.

Subject: Political campaigns; Presidents; Working class; Negative campaigning; Congressional elections; Endorsements; Politics; Debates

Business indexing term: Subject: Working class

Location: United States--US; Ohio

People: Trump, Donald J Jr

Company / organization: Name: Mar-a-Lago Club; NAICS: 713910; Name: Senate-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/16/us/politics/trump-vance-vp-decision.html

Title: An Apology Broke the Ice As Vance Courted Trump:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 18, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3082051612

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/apology-broke-ice-as-vance-courted-trump/docview/3082051612/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Vance's Agenda on A.I.: Loosen the Regulations: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kang, Cecilia

Publication info: Kang, Cecilia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vances-agenda-on-i-loosen-regulations/docview/3082051601/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Donald Trump's vice-presidential pick has indicated he favors a hands-off approach to A.I. but also wants to increase scrutiny of the biggest tech firms in the field.
Senator J.D. Vance, Republican of Ohio, is a strong skeptic of regulating artificial intelligence. He's also in favor of reining in Big Tech, companies he says have grown so powerful that they stymie smaller companies' ability to succeed.
That seeming contradiction could play a role in shaping the Trump administration's stance on A.I. policy if former President Donald J. Trump is elected later this year. Mr. Vance -- the Republican pick for vice president and a former tech investor -- has pushed for looser regulations and has vocally supported open-source A.I., the public release of underlying code that can be copied and altered to create new technology.
But he has also broken with his party to support Lina Khan, the chair of the Federal Trade Commission, for her aggressive stance on antitrust action against Big Tech. And he has strong ties with some of the tech industry's most powerful backers, many of whom fund smaller A.I. start-ups.
Last week, during a committee hearing on privacy and A.I., Mr. Vance accused Big Tech companies of predicting that A.I. could destroy humanity in order to solicit new regulations that only the largest companies could comply with.
Those regulations would "entrench the tech incumbents that we actually have, and make it actually harder for new entrants to create the innovation that's going to power the next generation of American growth" and jobs, Mr. Vance said.
Mr. Trump has not said whom he would ask to lead the administration's policymaking on A.I if he reclaims the presidency in November. But Mr. Vance could heavily influence the growing industry.
Tech policy experts expect that Mr. Vance would take a more laissez-faire approach to A.I. regulations compared with the Biden administration's. The president has issued an executive order requiring safety testing and urged further regulation. Mr. Vance would most likely favor rolling back some of the current A.I. guardrails in place for the U.S. military, which has taken a cautious approach to using the new technology. He has also urged more investment in U.S. companies to help them compete against China, which is racing to dominate A.I.
Still, Mr. Vance's competing visions for looser regulation on A.I. and strong accountability for Big Tech, which is currently leading in creating and improving the technology, may be hard to balance, the experts say.
"Vance is of two minds and I don't know if he can reconcile those things," said Matt Mittelsteadt, a research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University.
Mr. Vance did not respond to a request for comment. He hasn't previously directly addressed the apparent contradiction in his regulatory views.
Generative A.I., a form of the technology that powers humanlike chatbots and creates realistic images, has prompted concerns worldwide that the technology could wipe out jobs, fuel disinformation and eventually replace the need for humans completely.
The resulting scramble to regulate the industry has led to laws in Europe that ban the riskiest uses of A.I., such as the collection of biometric data by law enforcement, and force companies to reveal when A.I. is being used on consumers. Domestically, dozens of states have passed or are in the process of creating laws for A.I. that require security testing and transparency for consumers.
While Congress has held forums and hearings with A.I. creators, academics and company chiefs, there hasn't been movement on federal legislation.
Mr. Vance has participated in policy forums hosted by Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the majority leader, on how A.I. will affect security, copyright, discrimination and labor. He previously worked for Peter Thiel, a co-founder of PayPal, and was recently a co-host of a Trump fund-raiser with David Sacks, a venture capital investor.
In 2020, Mr. Vance founded Narya Capital, a venture capital firm based in Cincinnati and backed by Mr. Thiel and other Silicon Valley investors.
Mr. Vance said he was hoping to find a company to compete with Google's ad tech business, but realized it was too dominant.
"We want innovation and we want competition, and I think that it's impossible to have one without the other," he said in February.
He has criticized Meta and Apple for "parasitic" business practices and has called for the breakup of Google, but hasn't specifically addressed what to do about the most powerful A.I. companies, which include private companies like OpenAI and Anthropic.
Kara Frederick, the director of the Tech Policy Center at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said Mr. Vance would most likely buoy the A.I. industry and prioritize start-ups in the field.
"He has more firsthand experience to understand how new entrants have not been able to compete in a genuine free market," Ms. Frederick said.
Photograph J.D. Vance, former President Donald J. Trump's pick for vice president, is expected to be easier on A.I. regulations than the Biden administration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B7.

Subject: Presidents; Regulation; Startups; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Venture capital

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/17/technology/vance-ai-regulation.html

Title: Vance's Agenda on A.I.: Loosen the Regulations:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 18, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3082051601

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vances-agenda-on-i-loosen-regulations/docview/3082051601/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 18, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How JD Vance Won Over Donald Trump

Author: Swan, Jonathan; Haberman, Maggie

Publication info: Swan, Jonathan; Haberman, Maggie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-jd-vance-won-over-donald-trump/docview/3081976148/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The meeting got off to a bad start.
JD Vance walked into Donald Trump’s office at Mar-a-Lago on a warm winter afternoon in February 2021. The former president had a thick stack of papers on his desk: printouts of Vance’s copious broadsides against Trump. Vance’s past criticisms had included an essay in one of Trump’s least favorite magazines, The Atlantic, where Vance described Trump as “cultural heroin” — a purveyor of false promises to the white working class.
Trump, using an expletive, bluntly told Vance: You said some nasty stuff about me. The discussion that followed was described in detail by two people with knowledge of the meeting who insisted on anonymity to talk about a private conversation.
Vance’s next move was crucial. This was the first time he was meeting Trump, and Vance needed the former president to like him or at least leave the meeting with an open mind. Vance — the author of “Hillbilly Elegy,” a best-selling memoir about his troubled upbringing and the struggles and pathologies of the white working class — was running for the open U.S. Senate seat in Ohio as a Republican populist, a Never Trumper turned pro-Trumper.
Vance decided to immediately apologize. He told Trump that he had bought into what he described as media lies and that he was sorry he got it wrong. Of all people, Vance told Trump, Vance himself should have understood.
Trump agreed, telling Vance that he should have understood because Vance had written the “Hillbilly Elegy” book. His implication was that Vance should have supported him because Trump’s own base of non-college-educated voters angry about globalization, immigration and foreign wars comprised exactly the people Vance purported to represent.
At that point, Trump seemed disarmed, and the meeting went on for almost two hours. They discussed the 2020 election and the Ohio race, but mostly they talked about the difficulties of politics. It had been less than a month since Trump left the White House a pariah, in the wake of a pro-Trump mob storming the Capitol after the president had spent two months lying about a stolen election.
Trump closed the conversation by asking Vance what he wanted. Trump told him that everyone else had already been down to Mar-a-Lago begging for his endorsement — a reference to Vance’s potential opponents in the Ohio Senate primary.
Vance, who along with a spokesperson for Trump declined to comment for this article, told the former president he wasn’t going to do that.
Trump, surprised, asked Vance if he wanted the endorsement.
Vance said that of course he wanted it, but that Trump should let him run his race, and see how he did. Vance said he would not be the type of candidate who would attack the former president when the media came after him.
Trump seemed intrigued. All right, Trump replied, telling Vance, whom he called JD, to take care and check in from time to time.
Trump had relatively little personal contact with Vance after that first meeting, but he took note as Vance kicked off his Senate campaign in July 2021, ran circles around his primary opponents in debates and became a frequent presence on “Tucker Carlson Tonight,” at the time the top-rated show on cable television.
Trump was impressed. He told allies he thought Vance was smart and handsome — “those beautiful blue eyes,” he’d say repeatedly — great on TV and a killer at the debates. Trump, who split with allies at the influential conservative group Club for Growth in backing Vance, felt validated when Vance won the general election against his Democratic rival, Rep. Tim Ryan, and then immediately became one of Trump’s most vocal supporters in the Senate.
When Trump announced his third campaign for president, in November 2022, at a time when most Republicans wanted nothing to do with him, Vance distinguished himself by immediately signaling to Trump’s staff that Vance was all in.
Since then, Vance has played his cards nearly perfectly, making himself visible at key moments, promoting himself assertively but not too much, publicly backing Trump during his Manhattan criminal trial and having the right people champion him to the former president at the right time.
That day in early 2021, Vance was ushered into Trump’s office at Mar-a-Lago by one of the most secretive donors in GOP politics: Peter Thiel, the billionaire founder of PayPal who broke with Silicon Valley to support Trump for president in 2016. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., was at the meeting, too.
Though initially skeptical of Vance’s loyalty, Donald Trump Jr. became close friends with him over the course of the Senate campaign. He became a huge asset when allies of Vance’s rivals for running mate tried desperately to undermine Vance with a pressure campaign aimed at changing the elder Trump’s mind.
Now, the 39-year-old Vance has become the party’s vice-presidential nominee.
An experienced fighter in the modern culture wars, Vance is in many ways a different type of running mate from the one Trump selected in 2016: Mike Pence was a Ronald Reagan conservative and evangelical governor whose penchant for spontaneous prayer unnerved the man under whom he served. In Vance, Trump is picking someone whose impulses for fighting against existing institutions and challenging global systems match his own.
Yet the arc of how Trump made his choices in 2016 and in 2024 had similarities. He had described both Pence and Vance as “out of central casting.” Then Trump began to question his options and solicited the opinions of everyone he spoke to, before ultimately returning where he began.
But the lead-up to Trump’s selection of Vance was even more chaotic than it was with Pence. It was uncertain down to the final hours, with a frantic lobbying effort until the last possible moment by anti-Vance forces, including Rupert Murdoch and his allies, with some of it playing out in public.
Trump seemed uncertain right until the end, privately raising some of the negative comments Vance had made about him in the past. Allies of Vance, including Elon Musk and Tucker Carlson, ran a counter campaign to reassure Trump about the selection, with supportive calls to the former president continuing until the moment Trump finally told Vance of his decision, on Monday afternoon, less than half an hour before he announced his choice on social media.
The Debate Moment
Six months into his Senate campaign, Vance was seen by most as the walking dead.
Throughout the fall of 2021, he was savaged in the Ohio Republican Senate primary by television commercials that re-aired his past condemnations of Trump. Vance’s support fell precipitously in private polling, and even Trump privately voiced concerns about the impact the ads were having in the race. Many Republican operatives believed Vance’s chances of surviving the onslaught were close to zero.
He began his comeback on a debate stage.
At a March 2022 debate among the crowded Senate Republican field, Vance’s two main rivals — Josh Mandel, a former Ohio state representative and treasurer, and the businessman Mike Gibbons — nearly came to blows on the stage.
Vance seized the moment. He described their fight as “ridiculous” and confronted Mandel for using Mandel’s military service as a “political football” earlier in the debate, calling it “disgraceful,” setting off a burst of applause in the room. The moment presaged Vance as a deft performer on his feet, one who would eventually eviscerate his general election rival, Ryan, on the debate stage.
Trump relished that primary debate confrontation and felt that it showed Vance had what it took. Trump has always paid close attention to debate performances, crediting his own showing in the 2016 debates for his victory over Hillary Clinton. He told allies he liked what he’d seen from Vance. One month after the debate, Trump formally endorsed him.
Vance was helped in that race also by conservative media relationships that would prove not just durable but critical in helping him become Trump’s running mate.
The most important of those relationships have been with Carlson, the former Fox News host; the reporter Matthew Boyle at Breitbart; and the political activist Charlie Kirk. Their support meant that in the conservative media ecosystem — the arena that decides the political life span of the average Republican — Vance was a made man.
The Visit to a Derailment Site
Trump announced his own candidacy for president a week after the November 2022 midterms.
His campaign launch was a disaster.
High-profile MAGA candidates endorsed by Trump had lost midterm races they should have won. Trump was blamed for the disappointing results, and most Republican elected officials stayed away from his presidential kickoff event at Mar-a-Lago.
Shortly after he announced his campaign, Trump ignited a string of controversies, including calling for the termination of parts of the Constitution to overturn his 2020 defeat and dining with Kanye West, a rapper whose stream of vitriol against Jews stirred outrage, and Nick Fuentes, a notorious white supremacist.
Trump found himself abandoned by many in the Republican-leaning media, with Fox News extolling his main presidential primary rival, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, and his favorite newspaper, The New York Post, giving DeSantis the headline title: “DeFuture.” A chorus of prominent conservatives was saying it was time for fresh blood.
Vance was not among them.
He signaled privately to Trump’s team, shortly after the midterms, that he planned to endorse the former president. He said he wanted to make an intellectual argument for Trump that would resonate with the donor class and other elites, according to a person briefed on the exchanges. He ended up announcing his endorsement in late January 2023 in an opinion piece in The Wall Street Journal, praising Trump’s foreign policy. The proactive support was reassuring to the Trump team amid so many threatened defections at a time when the campaign seemed rudderless.
The Trump campaign found its direction a month later, in February. It started with a visit to a derailment site of a train that had been carrying hazardous chemicals through East Palestine, Ohio.
President Joe Biden and his advisers had been criticized for days for not visiting the site, and Vance was among the most vocal critics of the federal response. Biden’s administration blamed policy rollbacks from Trump’s era for the derailment.
Trump’s son Donald Jr. soon had a thought: What if his father visited the site? He ran the idea past both Vance and Trump’s top adviser, Susie Wiles, and a plan was soon in place. Flying aboard his plane, dubbed Trump Force One, from Florida to Ohio for the event, Trump was watching Fox News. Vance was on the air. The former president turned to his son and observed that Vance had been “incredible, hasn’t he?” — using an expletive to underscore the point.
When the plane landed, it was clear that Trump was stepping into a media vacuum created by Biden’s absence. Walking down the movable stairs from his plane on the tarmac, Trump appeared on the extensive television coverage as if he were still president.
He traveled in a motorcade, distributed red MAGA caps to residents and delivered water bottles to the community — all on TV. He bought burgers for first responders at a local McDonald’s.
Vance stood alongside him throughout the day, the two men condemning federal officials they said had left the region behind. It was an early test of what they might be like on a campaign trail together.
The Decision
By the fall of 2023, chatter was growing that Vance was a top contender to be Trump’s running mate. But while advisers to both men had discussed the possibility informally, it had not become a topic of conversation between Trump and Vance.
Trump plainly liked Vance, according to people close to the former president. The chemistry between the two — one of the ingredients in a hire that Trump values most — was clear.
Vance had approached the relationship differently from a number of people who have grown close to Trump over the years. He valued scarcity. He did not call Trump constantly, and his list of requests was extremely limited. He sought help from Trump on only two matters: He asked him to endorse the businessman Bernie Moreno in his run for the Senate in Ohio, and he asked Trump to support a rail safety bill that Vance and the state’s Democratic senator, Sherrod Brown, sponsored. Trump did both.
Vance was slow to believe Trump would actually pick him as a running mate, people close to him said. His view started to change around the New Hampshire presidential primary in late January, as he campaigned for Trump in the state and drew a warm response.
He also began to fit the part more visibly. Trump commented to allies on how good Vance was looking — how his beard appeared more groomed, how his suits fit better and how he’d lost weight. Vance had been working out and going for long runs.
Trump has also been solicitous of Vance’s wife, Usha. About a month ago, the Vances were at an event with Trump when he asked Usha how she liked political life. When Usha Vance gave an anodyne answer, Trump replied that his wife hated it, too, adding an expletive. Usha Vance laughed at Trump’s answer, according to a person briefed on the interaction.
Vance’s allies began an aggressive strategy to show he could be successful in two areas that preoccupied Trump: performing well in adversarial interviews on mainstream news channels, and bringing in new financial supporters.
Vance’s advisers booked him on a slew of shows on CNN, NBC, ABC and CBS, including one appearance that caught Trump’s eye, with the CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer, shortly after Trump was convicted in his Manhattan criminal trial. Vance was the first vice-presidential hopeful to show up in court to support Trump, and he stepped up his aggressive televised defense of Trump after the conviction.
Vance helped pave the way for Trump with some Silicon Valley donors. He spent months working on David Sacks, an entrepreneur whom Vance has called “one of his closest confidants in politics,” to support Trump. That effort resulted in a $12 million event for the Trump campaign. Sacks said at the event that it “would never have happened” without Vance’s support, according to a person familiar with his remarks.
Musk, one of the world’s richest men and the owner of the website X, has emerged as a quiet ally of Vance’s, according to two people briefed on the relationship. Musk has viewed Biden’s reelection as an existential crisis for the nation and told Trump directly that he should choose Vance as his running mate, describing the Trump-Vance pairing as “beautiful,” according to one of the people with knowledge of their relationship. Musk did not respond to requests for comment.
Yet it was Don Jr. and his allies who pushed Vance most insistently — publicly and privately.
For most of the year, Trump’s associates have said that the former president was not especially enamored of any of his choices for running mate, doubtful that any of them would make much of a difference to his chances in November. And yet in recent weeks, he told people that he liked the idea of someone who could carry on his MAGA legacy, something Trump believed the two other top contenders — Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota — were not as well positioned as Vance to accomplish.
Trump continued playing Hamlet of sorts, polling nearly everyone he encountered about what they thought he should do.
That was reminiscent of 2016, when Trump had told everyone for weeks that Pence was “out of central casting,” but still insisted he hadn’t made up his mind and was receptive to last-minute pitches from allies of Newt Gingrich and Chris Christie. He ultimately offered the job to Pence while telling Christie that he hadn’t done so, before finally making the choice public.
Trump listened to a number of last-minute efforts to block Vance’s selection.
The anti-Vance campaign was intense, widespread and carried right up until the final hours before Trump announced his choice. Several major Republican donors, including the hedge fund magnate Ken Griffin, as well as the media mogul Rupert Murdoch, tried to persuade Trump not to choose Vance. (A Griffin spokesperson wouldn’t address what he told Trump, saying only that there were a number of good options and that Trump and his team had been “thoughtful.”)
Murdoch even went so far as to dispatch senior executives and columnists at The New York Post to meet with Trump and dissuade him from picking Vance. Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s 2016 campaign manager who is also close to Melania Trump, argued privately that other options, such as Rubio, were better, according to several people with knowledge of her outreach effort.
The Murdoch crowd lobbied aggressively for Burgum, in private and in editorials in The New York Post. When the anti-Vance forces made their arguments to Trump, they focused on Vance’s prior criticisms of the former president and on Vance’s youth and inexperience. But in many cases, these GOP donors were motivated because they loathed Vance’s ideology and policy positions, especially his staunch opposition to U.S. support for Ukraine against Russia.
Old comments made by Vance about Trump began to circulate on social media, and were put in front of the former president, who indicated to associates that they had given him pause.
But Trump was repelled by a Daily Mail article describing Burgum weeping at various moments — “When I see a man cry I view it as a weakness,” he once said. Allies also brought to Trump’s attention the fact that Burgum had signed one of the most restrictive abortion laws in the country, a point that could become a liability in a general election.
Trump told associates that he viewed Rubio as disloyal for having campaigned in 2016 against Rubio’s friend and mentor, Jeb Bush, and wondered whether he could be trusted.
In the final days, all three leading candidates made direct pitches to Trump.
Burgum let it be known that he had no interest in serving in another role in the Trump administration, a stance that did not play well with Trump, who had mused about making him the secretary of energy, according to two people briefed on the matter.
Vance was flown to Mar-a-Lago late last week aboard the plane of Steve Witkoff, a real estate investor and one of Trump’s few close friends.
When word got back to Tucker Carlson a few weeks ago that Trump might be wavering on Vance, he intervened. Carlson, who was visiting Australia on a speaking tour, phoned Trump and delivered an apocalyptic warning, according to two people briefed on their conversation. He told Trump that Rubio could not be trusted — that he would work against him and would try to lead America into nuclear war. Carlson, who declined to comment for this article, told Trump that Burgum could not be trusted, either.
Carlson told Trump in that June phone call that he believed that if he chose a “neocon” as his VP — an abbreviation for Republicans who favor using U.S. power to implant democracy abroad — then the U.S. intelligence agencies would have every incentive to assassinate Trump in order to get their preferred president.
He also warned against listening to the advice of allies of Carlson’s former employer, Murdoch. “When your enemies are pushing a running mate on you,” Carlson told Trump, referring to the Murdoch empire, “it’s a pretty good sign you should ignore them.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Politics; Debates; Political campaigns; Election results; Working class; Negative campaigning; Presidential elections; Endorsements; Congressional elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Working class

Location: United States--US; Ohio

People: Trump, Donald J; Trump, Donald J Jr

Company / organization: Name: Mar-a-Lago Club; NAICS: 713910; Name: Senate-US; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Primaries And Caucuses; Bush, Jeb; Appointments And Executive Changes; Senate; Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Endorsements; Club For Growth; Atlantic Monthly; Florida; Conway, Kellyanne; Blitzer, Wolf; New York State Criminal Case Against Trump (71543 23); Gingrich, Newt; East Palestine (Ohio); North Dakota; United States; Carlson, Tucker; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Christie, Christopher J; Conservatism (Us Politics); Ukraine; Mandel, Joshua A; Con Way Inc; Abc Inc; Elections; Presidential Election Of 2020; Atlantic, The (Magazine); Cbs Corporation; Politics And Government; Rap And Hip Hop; Presidential Election Of 2016; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Griffin, Kenneth C; Ryan, Timothy J (1973 ); Witkoff, Steven; Thiel, Peter A; Debates (Political); Vance, J D; Wiles, Susie; Indecency, Obscenity And Profanity; Social Media; Presidential Election Of 2024; Ohio; Decisions And Verdicts; X (Formerly Twitter); Cable Television; West, Kanye; United States Politics And Government; University Of North Dakota; Moreno, Bernie (1967 ); Wall Street Journal; University Of Florida; Executives And Management (Theory); Musk, Elon; State Legislatures; Lying; Burgum, Douglas; Fuentes, Nicholas J; Law And Legislation; News And News Media; Cnn; Sacks, David O; Rumors And Misinformation; Mar A Lago (Palm Beach, Fla); Workplace Environment; Dating And Relationships; Voter Fraud (Election Fraud); Polls And Public Opinion; Trump, Melania; Newspapers; Railroad Accidents And Safety; Elections, Senate; Robberies And Thefts; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Fox News Channel; Rubio, Marco; Media; United States International Relations; Storming Of The Us Capitol (Jan, 2021); Russia; Television; National Broadcasting Co; Trump, Donald J; Football; High Net Worth Individuals; Australia; Trump, Donald J Jr; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Pence, Mike; New Hampshire; Anger (Emotion); Daily Mail; Desantis, Ron; Assassinations And Attempted Assassinations; Elections, State Legislature; New York Post; Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Brown, Sherrod; Gibbons, Mike (1952 ); Campaign Finance; Whites; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Murdoch, Rupert; Books And Literature; Paypal

Title: How JD Vance Won Over Donald Trump

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 17, 2024

Dateline: 2024-07-17T22:51:24Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3081976148

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-jd-vance-won-over-donald-trump/docview/3081976148/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Recent Market Activity Betting on a Trump Win: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mattu, Ravi; Warner, Bernhard; Kessler, Sarah; Michael J. De La Merced; Hirsch, Lauren; Livni, Ephrat

Publication info: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mattu, Ravi; Warner, Bernhard; Kessler, Sarah; Michael J. De La Merced; et al. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recent-market-activity-betting-on-trump-win/docview/3081512343/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Donald Trump's running mate is pro-labor, a fan of crypto and the F.T.C.'s Lina Khan, and says Big Tech is too powerful.
A new wave Republican
Donald Trump picked J.D. Vance as his running mate and a possible successor to lead the "Make America Great Again" movement.
Much will be made of Vance's light political résumé -- he was elected to the Senate only two years ago. He's also been scathing about Trump in the past, having called him an "idiot" and himself a "Never Trump guy." But Vance says he's a convert, becoming one of Trump's biggest backers and adopting a similarly populist approach to the economy and business.
Vance's biography appeals to left-behind voters -- and investors. The 39-year-old served in Iraq and later went to Yale Law School, where he met his wife, Usha Vance. (She resigned from her role as a trial lawyer at Munger Tolles & Olson after Vance joined the ticket.) Vance rose to national prominence after publishing the best-selling memoir "Hillbilly Elegy." He worked at Mithril Capital Management, a venture capital firm co-founded by Peter Thiel, and Steve Case's Revolution. He also started his own fund with backing from Thiel, Eric Schmidt and Marc Andreessen.
Silicon Valley helped get him on the ticket. Vance is close to the libertarian wing of the tech industry. Thiel gave millions to his Ohio Senate campaign in 2022 and Vance is reportedly close to David Sacks, the venture capitalist who has hosted a Trump fund-raiser at his home and spoke at the Republican National Convention on Monday.
DealBook examined Vance's links to business, and his views on the economy and industry:
Vance has been tough on regulation, and has backed Lina Khan, the F.T.C. chair. Some tech investors celebrated having a former V.C. on the ticket. But Vance has said Big Tech is too powerful and called for Google to be broken up. He's also backed some of the Biden administration's efforts to constrain the industry. While many Republicans and business leaders have attacked Khan, Vance has said she is "one of the few people in the Biden administration who I think is doing a pretty good job."
Vance is pro labor. He says the postwar economy has relied too heavily on cheaper labor, a tactic that undercuts wages for American workers and has been exploited by big business. He's argued that employers' zeal for cheap labor has helped lead to a surge in unauthorized immigration to the U.S. and that consumers have become addicted to products made in low-wage countries. Those factors have aggravated America's foreign trade deficit and hit domestic manufacturing, he's said.
Vance isn't sold on the dollar's status as the world's reserve currency. Last year, during an exchange with Jay Powell, the Fed chairman, Vance said dollar dominance was good for Americans' purchasing power but a "tax on American producers." Like Trump, he is supportive of crypto and is reportedly working on legislation that would change how the U.S. regulates digital assets.
Vance is all in for Big Oil. He has expressed skepticism about the role of humans in causing climate change, and has attacked the Inflation Reduction Act, which provided incentives for the green transitions. Instead, he called for more drilling for shale oil in Ohio.
He's seen as another Republican who has distanced himself from the pro-globalization wing of the party. "Vance is a leader of the post-financial crisis Republican generation," Matt Stoller, research director at the American Economic Liberties Project, told DealBook, and is trying to reorient how the party thinks about economic policy.
Yet Vance's ideological approach, and his positive comments about Khan, worry some in business. "Trump populism and Vance populism are not the same," one big bank lobbyist told The Financial Times.
In other election news: The Democratic National Committee is moving to push President Biden toward the nomination, as he returns to campaigning and reiterated in an interview with NBC News that he wouldn't withdraw.
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING
Markets grow hopeful for more rate cuts. Jay Powell, the Fed chair, indicated on Monday that the central bank could lower borrowing costs before inflation falls to a 2 percent target. The dovish signal comes as traders see room for the Fed to cut three times this year; Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs's chief economist, asked in an investor note whether that should start this month.
Macy's stock tumbles after the retailer calls off sale talks. Shares in the retailer fell nearly 12 percent on Monday after the company said it had broken off discussions with the investment firms Arkhouse Management and Brigade Capital Management, citing uncertainty over financing. That puts more focus on Macy's turnaround plan, which includes closing stores.
Sequoia is said to offer its investors a way to cash out of Stripe. The venture capital firm plans to buy up to $ 861 million worth of shares in the payment processor at a $ 70 billion valuation, Axios reports. The deal is meant to give investors more liquidity (a big issue for many private investment firms), given that Sequoia has been invested in Stripe for nearly 14 years and the payments company appears unlikely to go public anytime soon.
General Motors tamps down expectations for electric-vehicle production. Mary Barra, the car maker's C.E.O., said that the company wouldn't have the production capacity to make one million E.V.s at the end of 2025, an acknowledgment it will fall short of a stated target. It's the latest sign of a slowdown in the E.V. market's growth, though Barra added that demand will eventually pick up.
Musk offers money and words to back Trump
Days after Elon Musk publicly endorsed Donald Trump for president, it now appears that the tech billionaire is prepared to offer financial support as well.
Musk is likely to donate a significant amount to America PAC, a pro-Trump group whose backers already include a number of Musk's Silicon Valley allies, The Times and others report. It's another sign that the Tesla chief intends to take a more active role in seeking Trump's victory.
Musk plans to give about $ 45 million a month, according to The Wall Street Journal. (Earlier this year, one leader of America PAC told a friend that an unnamed donor was likely to give as much as $ 160 million, The Times reports.) Musk had previously said that he wouldn't give to either Trump or Biden or a Republican super PAC.
Such a donation would shatter records, eclipsing the $ 50 million that the billionaire Timothy Mellon gave to a different pro-Trump super PAC.
That said, Musk responded to The Journal's story on his X social network with an illustration of wildebeests with human legs bearing the caption "FAKE GNUS."
America PAC has a bevy of high-profile backers. One key fund-raiser is Joe Lonsdale, the venture capitalist and co-founder of Palantir who is one of Musk's close friends, people close to the organization told The Times.
Others include Antonio Gracias, a director at SpaceX and a former board member at Tesla; Ken Howery, a former Musk ally at PayPal; Doug Leone and Shaun Maguire, investors at Sequoia Capital; the Winklevoss twins; and Joe Craft, a coal magnate.
The super PAC stands to become a major political force. It collected about $ 8.8 million in the second quarter alone, and spent $ 15 million in recent weeks. Being able to tap even a fraction of Musk's estimated $ 252 billion fortune could give it formidable resources to organize support for the Trump campaign.
In other donation news: The billionaire financier Ken Griffin gave $ 10 million to Republicans' Congressional Leadership Fund, bringing his total giving to G.O.P. super PACs in this cycle to $ 25 million.
"A French wealth tax would increase French export of good entrepreneurs to Silicon Valley! Please go for it!"
-- Vinod Khosla , the venture capitalist, taking a swipe at speculation that French politicians will reinstate a wealth tax as part of negotiations to form a governing coalition in Parliament.
The Trump trade
The S&P 500 is up more than 18 percent this year, fueled by investor fervor for artificial intelligence and the hopes that the Fed will start cutting interest rates.
The calculation of a potential Donald Trump return to the White House could be another catalyst, analysts say.
Market watchers are calling it the return of "the Trump trade." This implies that Trump 2.0 would mean lower taxes, deregulation, increased oil drilling and more fiscal spending. "Equities saw a clear rotation into stocks that stand to benefit from Trump's policies," Jim Reid, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a note on Tuesday.
The big winners on Monday included crypto stocks -- and digital assets like Bitcoin -- and oil majors. Trump Media, the former president's social media company that seems to ride the wave of Trump's political fortunes, also rose more than 30 percent.
Here's where investors put their money:
GEO Group and CoreCivic, two of the nation's largest publicly traded private prison operators, had their strongest days this year. The former gained more than 9 percent as investors weigh whether Trump's tough-on-crime campaign messaging will turn into policy that would bolster the sector.
The best performing sectors in the S&P 500 on Monday were energy and financials. The former, which includes Chevron and Exxon Mobil, climbed nearly 1.6 percent even as oil prices fell.
Coinbase, the crypto exchange, had its best day since March, gaining more than 10 percent, and Bitcoin nearly hit $ 65,000 before sinking. Trump appears to be warming to crypto as the industry gives millions to his campaign. The Republican Party platform is bullish too, vowing: "We will defend the right to mine Bitcoin, and ensure every American has the right to self-custody of their Digital Assets, and transact free from Government Surveillance and Control."
Climate-related stocks were among the losers. "Trump has been openly hostile to environmental and climate regulation and the companies that might benefit from them," Steve Sosnick, chief strategist at Interactive Brokers, told DealBook. "Investors in those more volatile companies did not wait around to assess the probabilities of a Trump victory."
Worth noting: The S&P 500 is up roughly 48 percent since President Biden's inauguration day, one of the best market runs of the past century. Investors have concerns about both candidates, including that Biden would raise taxes that might sap corporate profits, and Trumponomics could mean a raft of inflationary tariffs that could hamper growth.
THE SPEED READ
Deals
The activist investor Starboard Value is said to have built a more than 6.5 percent stake in Match Group, the parent company of Tinder, and wants a sale if a turnaround doesn't work out. (WSJ)
Lineage, a storage and logistics services specialist, is reportedly planning to go public, with a fund-raising goal of up to $ 3.85 billion. (Bloomberg)
Elections, politics and policy
The federal judge overseeing Donald Trump's classified documents case threw out all of the charges against him, ruling that the special counsel brought the case was appointed improperly. (NYT)
Mayor Eric Adams of New York City has raised more than $ 1 million for his re-election campaign from donors including Jonathan Kraft of the New England Patriots and relatives of Jim Dolan, as money flows into the 2025 race for Democratic challengers. (NYT)
Best of the rest
Salesforce plans to cut about 300 more jobs, as tech companies continue to focus on trimming costs to please investors. (Bloomberg)
"It's the Summer of the Quiet Vacation. Don't Tell the Boss." (WSJ)
We'd like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Photograph A Donald J. Trump return to the White House could mean less taxes, and more drilling and deregulation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Investments; Wealth tax; Social networks; Venture capital companies; Political campaigns; Leadership; Political action committees--PAC; Populism; Investors

Business indexing term: Subject: Wealth tax Social networks Venture capital companies Leadership

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; Ohio

People: Trump, Donald J; Khan, Lina M; Powell, Jerome

Company / organization: Name: Macys Inc; NAICS: 455110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/16/business/dealbook/trump-vance-republicans-business.html

Title: Recent Market Activity Betting on a Trump Win:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 17, 2024

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3081512343

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recent-market-activity-betting-on-trump-win/docview/3081512343/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-17

Database: Global Newsstream Col lection

____________________________________________________________

'Not 2016 Anymore': Trump Finds Backers in Silicon Valley: [National Desk]

Author: Schleifer, Theodore

Publication info: Schleifer, Theodore. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/not-2016-anymore-trump-finds-backers-silicon/docview/3065154816/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Donald Trump attended a fund-raiser in San Francisco, and his host, the tech entrepreneur David Sacks, hoped to portray Silicon Valley as a more MAGA-welcoming place.
One March night in the nation's capital, Senator J.D. Vance, Republican of Ohio, left a conservative gala to join a group having dinner with Donald Trump Jr.
As the meal wrapped, Mr. Vance decided, on a whim, to invite a friend, whom he had just introduced at the gala dinner, to meet the former president's son. Soon, the three Republicans -- Mr. Vance, Mr. Trump Jr. and Mr. Vance's friend, David Sacks, the Silicon Valley entrepreneur -- were getting to know one another for a half-hour or so in a private dining room of the Conrad Hotel.
It was there, at that impromptu post-dinner hang hours after Mr. Trump became the presumptive Republican nominee, that Mr. Sacks signaled that he was all-in for Trump 2024.
On Thursday evening, this time on his own California turf, it was Mr. Sacks's turn to host Team Trump. The former president himself flew to San Francisco to attend a fund-raiser at Mr. Sacks's $ 20 million home on the toniest street in the city's tony Pacific Heights neighborhood. The private event, the first campaign fund-raiser since Mr. Trump's criminal conviction last week, was expected to raise north of $ 12 million, according to people involved in the gathering.
Beyond the money, the fund-raiser in the beating heart of the liberal tech industry was also in some ways a landmark event, at least symbolically.
Four years ago, and certainly eight years ago, the Bay Area remained a haven for liberalism and offered little support for Mr. Trump. But that Obama-era bonhomie between Silicon Valley and the Democratic Party has come close to disintegrating. These days, entrepreneurs complain as much about President Biden as they do about Lina Khan, the chair of the Federal Trade Commission, who has ascended to Darth Vader-like status in some corners of the technology industry.
To be sure, most of the tech industry's elite maintain their liberal leanings on everything from immigration to climate change. Mr. Biden made his own trip to Silicon Valley last month, where he raised millions of dollars and was feted by internet icons, including Vinod Khosla, the venture capitalist, and Marissa Mayer, the former Yahoo chief executive. But times have changed, and Republicans on a national level see an opportunity to make incursions with wealthy entrepreneurs who have drifted rightward following the Covid pandemic and the resistance to the social-justice movements of 2020.
"It's safe to say that there's a wellspring of support in Silicon Valley," Mr. Sacks wrote in a text to The New York Times, "especially given the backlash to the political prosecution of Trump."
Mr. Sacks had expressed a desire to friends to make the San Francisco event something of a statement. He hoped to portray Silicon Valley as a changed place -- and San Francisco as no longer the liberal mecca of the Grateful Dead and Allen Ginsberg.
Over the last few years, Mr. Sacks, a longtime associate of Elon Musk and Peter Thiel, has transformed from a prominent Silicon Valley executive into an unlikely media celebrity for would-be entrepreneurs, especially those leaning right, who listen to his popular "All-In" podcast. He has also substantially increased his political involvement, hiring aides to steer his giving, setting up his own super PACs and, as of late, building relationships at Mr. Trump's Florida home base, Mar-a-Lago, links to which he lacked just a few months ago.
"There's a ton more latitude that people feel like they have now," said Saurabh Sharma, the head of a conservative advocacy group called American Moment, which hosted the gala featuring Mr. Sacks and Mr. Vance. "It's not 2016 anymore."
The trip to San Francisco was Mr. Trump's first visit to the famously left-wing city in at least a decade. The former president has called San Francisco "horrible," "filthy" and "drug-infested," and he has often invoked its homegrown political figures, such as Gov. Gavin Newsom and former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, as exemplars of what he sees as liberal excesses.
Some attendees of Mr. Sacks's event flew in from out of town. The event at his home -- nicknamed the Broadcliff by him and his wife, Jacqueline -- had sold out of its two ticket levels, $ 50,000 per person and $ 300,000 per person. Several people who belatedly expressed interest in going learned they would be unable to do so. Later, over the weekend, Mr. Trump will be hosted in Orange County in Southern California by another tech entrepreneur, Palmer Luckey, a former Facebook executive who went on to co-found the defense tech company Anduril.
People involved in the San Francisco fund-raiser said the roughly $ 12 million they expected to raise will beat their initial goal of about $ 5 million. About 25 people were expected to attend the dinner, and about another 50 or so were slated to attend a bigger reception. Mr. Trump flew to the event Thursday night from Arizona, where he took part in a town hall in Phoenix, his first campaign event since his criminal conviction.
San Francisco police cordoned off several blocks surrounding Mr. Sacks's home, while a small group of Trump supporters rallied outside the barricades, waving flags and occasionally trading insults with passers-by. Attendees of the dinner arrived in S.U.V.s with tinted windows, some waving to the gathering as they drove past.
A few of the more famous Silicon Valley Republicans skipped the event. Mr. Thiel, who has been in Europe this week for the annual meeting of the Bilderberg Group, was not expected to attend, according to two people familiar with his plans. Neither was the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, a person familiar with his plans said. Keith Rabois, a prominent G.O.P. donor and an early PayPal executive alongside Mr. Sacks and Mr. Thiel, wasn't there -- but his husband, Jacob Helberg, was, along with his guest, Senator Bill Hagerty, Republican of Tennessee.
The fund-raiser drew heavily from leaders in the crypto industry. Ryan Selkis, a politically active crypto entrepreneur, told people he planned to attend. The industry has taken a recent beating from Mr. Biden, whose veto last week of a crypto-friendly bill drove a few attendees to the Trump gathering, according to a person involved in the event.
"As opposed to an event in Palm Beach, where it's more likely a bunch of wealthy people who want to go to France or England, this event is a little bit more about the business community saying, 'Enough,"' said Trevor Traina, a former ambassador to Austria under Mr. Trump. A friend of Mr. Sacks, Mr. Traina planned to attend the event.
Mr. Sacks has had two primary sources of help.
The first has been Chamath Palihapitiya, an early executive at AOL and Facebook, who is now one of Mr. Sacks's so-called "besties" on their joint podcast and a former large donor to Democrats. The other is Mr. Vance, the Ohio senator who lived briefly in San Francisco and worked as a venture capitalist at one of Mr. Thiel's firms. At the fund-raiser on Thursday evening, Mr. Sacks saluted Mr. Vance and said that without his help, the event would have never happened. Mr. Vance, who was also at the event, co-founded a donor network popular with some Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, called the Rockbridge Network, and he was deeply involved in urging his friends in the industry to turn out for the gathering.
Mr. Vance has called Mr. Sacks "one of his closest confidants" in politics. Mr. Sacks helped launch Gov. Ron DeSantis's failed presidential bid alongside Mr. Musk on X in early 2023 and was slow to embrace Mr. Trump. Mr. Sacks said in the aftermath of Jan. 6, 2021, that the riot at the Capitol had disqualified Mr. Trump from serving in elected office, but Mr. Vance then spent upward of a year trying to change Mr. Sacks's mind.
Mr. Sacks has expressed to friends that he no longer thinks that being a Trump supporter in Silicon Valley is so provocative.
During Mr. Trump's last trip to Silicon Valley for fund-raising in the fall of 2019, organizers worked hard to disguise the host of the event, out of fear of a backlash, not informing guests of the precise location until very close to the day of the fund-raiser. Nowadays, Trump supporters in tech take pride -- a sign in itself. Ron Conway, a leader of liberal tech executives for decades, has grown alarmed by the trend and encouraged a few friends to skip the event, according to a person familiar with his thinking. Other Democratic veterans in tech have even questioned the hosts privately and effectively asked them if they had lost their minds.
Shawn Steel, a Republican National Committeeman from California who has worked in politics for decades, called the pro-Trump cohort of Republican givers "true, new gladiators."
"I gave up on Silicon Valley years ago," Mr. Steel said. "There's been a transformation -- real money is coming."
Mr. Sacks had expressed an interest in turning the event into a content-creation opportunity, perhaps by pulling out microphones for a live taping of Mr. Sacks's and Mr. Palihapitiya's podcast. That plan was scuttled. Still, the paper invitation to donors was sure to attach a rather specific honorific atop the names of these two professional venture capitalists: "All-In Co-Hosts."
Kate Conger contributed reporting.
Kate Conger contributed reporting.
Photograph David Sacks, above, an entrepreneur and investor, was set to host a fund-raiser at his San Francisco home for Donald J. Trump on Thursday. Senator J.D. Vance of Ohio, below, planned to attend. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MADDIE MCGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Political campaigns; Presidents; Political parties; Venture capital; Political finance

Business indexing term: Subject: Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; California; United States--US; Ohio; San Francisco California

People: Trump, Donald J

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/06/us/politics/trump-sacks-silicon-valley-donors.html

Title: 'Not 2016 Anymore': Trump Finds Backers in Silicon Valley:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 7, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3065154816

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/not-2016-anymore-trump-finds-backers-silicon/docview/3065154816/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 7, 2024

Lastupdated: 2024-06-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Companies Are Nervous About the Struggling Consumer: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mattu, Ravi; Warner, Bernhard; Kessler, Sarah; Michael J. De La Merced; Hirsch, Lauren; Livni, Ephrat

Publication info: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mattu, Ravi; Warner, Bernhard; Kessler, Sarah; Michael J. De La Merced; et al. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-companies-are-nervous-about-struggling/docview/3053367267/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On earnings calls, dozens of corporate executives have cited a slowdown in spending to explain why sales are slipping.
The "stretched" consumer
Better than expected quarterly earnings have helped propel the S&P 500 to within a whisker of a record high on Friday. But Wall Street and Washington are closely monitoring another worrying economic indicator: the struggling consumer.
The split-screen view of the economy is becoming clearer as earnings season draws to a close. Mass-market brands, like the fast-food companies McDonald's, KFC and Starbucks, have reported that a lot of customers are pulling back on spending as high inflation bites. But less price-sensitive sectors, such as airlines and hospitality, say customers are still booking flights, hotel rooms and tables at pricier restaurants.
The starkly different snapshots may explain why voters give President Biden poor marks for economic management, even as jobs are plentiful and growth is resilient. This is "an economy of the haves and have-nots," Michael Reid, an economist for RBC Capital Markets, told DealBook. "The haves just have so much more spending power."
What's making "the haves" so flush: They tend to have little to no mortgage debt or car or student loans, and their stock-market-tied retirement accounts have accumulated healthy gains to finance vacations or nights out.
But the less-affluent are feeling the pinch. They've blown through their pandemic savings, and they're racking up credit card and other loan debt. One area to watch: A surge in "buy now, pay later" programs may be masking America's "phantom" consumer debt problem.
Company executives are increasingly warning about this cohort. On earnings calls this quarter, we've seen an uptick in the number of times C.E.O.s and C.F.O.s cite "low-income consumers" to explain why sales are slipping or why they give lackluster guidance on profit.
Here's what they're saying:
John Peyton, C.E.O. of Dine Brands Global, the parent of Applebee's and IHOP restaurants, told analysts that lower-income consumers are "more aggressively managing their check, finding our value-oriented items."
Ramon Laguarta, PepsiCo's C.E.O., was more blunt. "The lower-income consumer in the U.S. is stretched," he said, adding that this type of customer "is strategizing a lot to make their budgets get to the end of the month."
Hal Lawton, C.E.O. of Tractor Supply Company, the farming retailer, sees something similar: "In the first quarter, our upper-income consumer over-indexed in big ticket categories and recreational purchases compared to our lower-income consumer, who is prioritizing their spend on needs."
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING
Israel hits out at President Biden's threat to withhold more weapons. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the country would "stand alone" if needed after the U.S. refused to send bombs that could be used in a major assault on the Gazan city of Rafah. The comments are the latest sign of a widening rift between Israel and the Biden administration over the war.
T-Mobile and Verizon are said to be in talks that would divvy up U.S. Cellular. The telecommunications giants are in discussions to split one of the country's last big regional wireless carriers, with each getting a different part of the business, according to The Wall Street Journal. One scenario: T-Mobile's U.S. arm would pay $ 2 billion for some operations and wireless spectrum licenses; Verizon is in talks on a separate deal with U.S. Cellular.
The White House is reportedly planning to impose tariffs on Chinese electric vehicles. The government could target some of China's key strategic sectors including E.V., batteries and solar cell manufacturing as soon as next week, according to Bloomberg. Biden has called Chinese E.V.s a national security threat and has accused China of using unfair industrial policies to distort markets.
Apple apologizes for the iPad ad that spurred a big backlash. The tech giant said a 60-second spot that showed a giant machine crushing tools used by artists had "missed the mark" and that it would not run on TV. The ad was slammed by actors, artists and designers, who said it was a metaphor for Big Tech destroying or co-opting their work.
How Biden and Trump are wooing business
President Biden is on a West Coast fund-raising tour, looking to extend his money lead over Donald Trump. The trip caps a week during which the president pitched his economic policies to business leaders to gain their support and reports emerged of some of Donald Trump's promises to C.E.O.s to win their backing and donations.
Biden is heading to Silicon Valley and Seattle. Vinod Khosla, the venture capital investor, and Marissa Mayer, the former Yahoo C.E.O., will host two separate events on Friday, as first reported by Puck. Biden will then head to Seattle for a fund-raiser tomorrow.
The trip follows a push to gain business leaders' support. Biden hosted seven C.E.O.s at the White House on Tuesday, including Citi's Jane Fraser, the Evercore founder Roger Altman and the United Airlines boss Scott Kirby to talk geopolitics and economics.
Biden administration officials are ramping up outreach. Jeff Zients, Biden's chief of staff, and others drew up a list of more than 100 C.E.O.s to contact (the White House hasn't disclosed their names). The group of officials charged with smoothing relations with boardrooms -- dubbed "The Hub" -- includes Janet Yellen, the Treasury secretary; Lael Brainard, the director of the National Economic Council; and Gina Raimondo, the commerce secretary. "At the president and Jeff's request, we're strategically engaging with business leaders," Wally Adeyemo, the deputy Treasury secretary, told DealBook.
Biden wants the C.E.O.s to help make his case. The administration is asking executives, including the former PayPal C.E.O. Dan Schulman, to call other business leaders for feedback that they might not give the president directly, a senior official said.
Many in big business haven't been happy with his first term. Some executives are frustrated by Biden's plans to raise taxes on the wealthy and companies. Business groups have sued Lina Khan's F.T.C. for banning noncompete agreements and banks say that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau under Rohit Chopra has gone "rogue" in applying his pro-consumer agenda.
Trump is promising business that he'll roll back Biden-era rules. The Republican candidate told Big Oil executives last month that they should give $ 1 billion to his campaign because he would kill environmental rules that have hit the industry. He also has promised to extend the tax cuts he passed as president and said he would slash further if re-elected.
Fast-food executive charged in "sham" loan case
Federal prosecutors on Friday have charged Andrew Wiederhorn, chairman of Fat Brands, the parent of the fast-food chains Fatburger, Johnny Rockets and Hot Dog on a Stick, with orchestrating a series of "sham" payments that netted him $ 47 million.
Federal prosecutors accused Wiederhorn of concealing payments from the company to him between 2010 and 2021. They were categorized as "shareholder loans," and made directly from the board, according to a grand jury indictment released on Friday. Wiederhorn "had no intention of repaying these sham 'loans'," the filing says. The charges include tax evasion, filing false tax returns, wire fraud and certifying faulty financial reports.
Wiederhorn has had previous run-ins with the law. Twenty years ago, he served a federal prison sentence on filing a false tax return and other charges associated with his running of Fog Cutter Capital, a holding company. His case drew national media attention, including in The Times, as Fog Cutter continued to pay his salary, a bonus and "leave of absence pay" while he served his 18-month sentence.
Wiederhorn founded Fat Brands in 2017. . In February, the publicly listed company informed shareholders that the S.E.C. was investigating Wiederhorn and two other unidentified associates in a possible criminal matter, but did not disclose details. At the time, the company said it was cooperating with the authorities.
The case was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The other defendants named in Friday's indictment are William Amon, Rebecca Hershinger and the Fat Brands company.
"There is no law that says that the Fed moves first."
-- Andrew Bailey , the Bank of England governor, has signaled that the central bank could cut interest rates as soon as this summer -- potentially ahead of the Fed. Meanwhile, first-quarter G.D.P. data released on Friday showed the British economy had emerged from recession .
A not-so-sweet cocoa rally
Cocoa prices have been on a roller-coaster ride this year, leaving some of the biggest food companies in the world unsure of how to price their chocolate. The market volatility began with a disappointing 2023 cocoa crop. The commodity price more than tripled in a matter of months, reaching a record of more than $ 11,000 per ton in mid-April.
What will this mean for chocolate lovers? Mondelez, the makers of Chips Ahoy cookies and Cadbury chocolates, raised prices by about 6 percent in the first quarter, and Hershey did so by about 5 percent. Both companies said they wouldn't rule out further price increases if cocoa prices stay high.
THE SPEED READ
Deals
Todd Boehly's investment firm is said to be in advanced talks to buy Hayfin Capital Management to extend its reach in European private credit. (FT)
The investment firms that took Calpine private are reportedly weighing a sale of the power plant company, taking it public or selling a stake at a valuation of roughly $ 30 billion. (Reuters)
Policy
A federal jury found a finance executive guilty of securities fraud in an insider trading case involving Donald Trump's social media company. (NYT)
How Eric Schmidt, Google's former C.E.O., has emerged as a top A.I. matchmaker in Washington. (Politico)
Best of the rest
A chat with Sam Bankman-Fried in prison. (Puck)
Shares in Bill Ackman's investment firm have soared since he became an outspoken campaigner after the Oct. 7 attacks in Israel.
Elsewhere, Ackman reportedly got an earful from Wall Street executives at this week's Milken Institute Global Conference for his attacks on corporate diversity policies. (Semafor, Bloomberg)
Why did Miss USA and Miss Teen USA resign within days of each other? (WSJ)
We'd like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Consumers; Fast food industry; Executives; Public prosecutors; Criminal sentences; Indictments; Political campaigns; Presidents; Prices; Cocoa; Loans; Political advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Fast food industry Executives Loans

Location: United States--US; Israel; China

People: Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Verizon Communications Inc; NAICS: 513210, 517111, 517112

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/10/business/dealbook/companies-nervous-consumer-profit.html

Title: Why Companies Are Nervous About the Struggling Consumer:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 11, 2024

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3053367267

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-companies-are-nervous-about-struggling/docview/3053367267/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Credit Scores Don't Reflect 'Pay Later': [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn; Casselman, Ben

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn; Casselman, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credit-scores-dont-reflect-pay-later/docview/3047750891/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Shoppers in recent years have embraced "buy now, pay later" loans as an easy, interest-free way to purchase everything from sweaters to concert tickets.
The loans typically are not reported on consumers' credit reports, however, or reflected in their credit scores. That has stoked concerns that users might be taking on an outsize amount of debt that is invisible to both lenders and financial regulators.
So in February, when Apple announced it would start reporting loans made through its Apple Pay Later program to Experian, one of the three major U.S. credit bureaus, it looked like a watershed moment for the fast-growing "buy now, pay later" category.
But none of the other major pay-later providers have followed Apple's lead. And while credit bureaus and lenders say they are interested in finding a way to work together, the gulf between the two sides remains wide -- so much so that some pay-later firms are exploring creating an alternative credit bureau to handle their loans.
"I haven't seen really meaningful progress," said David Sykes, chief commercial officer of Klarna, one of the largest pay-later firms.
"Buy now, pay later" loans allow consumers to pay for purchases over time, often in four installments over six weeks, interest free. They surged in popularity during the pandemic, when they helped fuel an online-shopping boom. The rapid growth has continued: The retail industry attributed its record-setting holiday sales in part to the popularity of pay-later products.
But economists at Wells Fargo warned last year that "phantom debt" from pay-later loans "could create substantial problems for the consumer and the broader economy."
The credit bureaus argue that incorporating pay-later loans into the reporting system would benefit consumers, who could build credit by repaying the loans on time, and lenders, who would gain fuller insight into consumers' borrowing.
The pay-later providers agree -- in theory. But they worry that reporting the loans would end up hurting their customers. Existing scoring models penalize borrowers who take out many loans in a short period. That could be a problem for the pay-later industry because, unlike credit card purchases, each pay-later transaction is treated as a loan.
Some consumer advocates share that concern.
"The credit reporting system is a system that assumes monthly payments, it assumes longer-term loans, and it just isn't really cut out to handle 'buy now, pay later,"' said Chi Chi Wu, senior attorney at the National Consumer Law Center. "It's a square-peg, round-hole kind of thing."
The consumer reporting industry in the United States has evolved over the decades to become a complex web of independent and sometimes competing players. Financial institutions -- banks, mortgage brokers, auto lenders and others -- report information on loans to three major credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian and TransUnion. Those bureaus compile the data and provide it to lenders and consumers, and also to companies like FICO and VantageScore, which use it to produce credit scores.
The major credit bureaus say they addressed the pay-later industry's concerns more than two years ago when they created a category for the loans. That should allow FICO and VantageScore to adjust their models to account for those loans' unique characteristics -- and ultimately to incorporate them into credit scores without penalizing users. (For now, the loans would be included on consumers' credit reports but not visible to lenders or incorporated into scoring models.)
"It's been a long road, but I think that we are finally hitting a turning point in the momentum toward getting the data reported," said Liz Pagel, a senior vice president at TransUnion who oversees the company's consumer lending business.
The pay-later industry, however, argues that the credit-reporting system still isn't ready. For one thing, the credit bureaus primarily receive data from lenders monthly, whereas pay-later loans are typically paid biweekly. (All three major credit bureaus said that while monthly reporting was the default, lenders could report more frequently if they wish.)
"It's just not fit-for-purpose yet," Mr. Sykes of Klarna said. "And we haven't seen anything from the bureaus that suggest it's about to be."
Klarna reports loans to TransUnion and Experian in Britain, where the system works somewhat differently. A rival, Affirm, reports some longer-term loans to Experian in the United States and says it hopes to report shorter-term loans "eventually."
Other major pay-later providers, like Afterpay, PayPal and Zip, said their concerns with the credit reporting system's handling of pay-later loans had not been resolved.
"Our members continue to say it's still inadequate," said Penny Lee, president of the Financial Technology Association, which represents many of the largest pay-later companies.
That argument took a hit in February, however, when Apple announced that it would begin reporting loans made through its "Apple Pay Later" product -- essentially a copy of the pay-in-four loans offered by Klarna, Afterpay and similar firms -- to Experian.
Apple declined to comment, but in an earlier news release said that while the loans would not immediately be incorporated into credit scores, it saw the move as a step toward "providing users with the opportunity to further build their credit."
Silvio Tavares, chief executive of VantageScore, said in an interview that Apple's announcement showed the credit-reporting system's ability to handle pay-later loans.
"It's tough to be more sophisticated than Apple," he said.
Far from joining Apple, however, pay-later providers appear to be exploring a system outside the traditional credit reporting infrastructure. Last year, two former industry executives founded Qlarifi, a data-aggregation platform specifically for pay-later loans. (Mr. Sykes of Klarna is an investor.)
Alex Naughton, who left Klarna last year to help found Qlarifi and is now its chief executive, portrays the company as a nimble, more tech-savvy credit-reporting approach. It will be able to collect and share data in real time rather than monthly, the standard for the major credit bureaus.
"I don't think the existing infrastructure is able to adapt as quickly," he said.
The lenders and the credit agencies agree that pay-later loans are unlikely to remain outside the credit scoring system forever. But it is unclear what will break the logjam. Ultimately, industry experts said, it will probably boil down to one of two things: Either regulators will force pay-later firms to start reporting or market forces will.
"Either it's going to be a market shift or it's going to be a regulatory shift," said Shane Foster, a lawyer at Greenberg Traurig who specializes in financial regulation.
Regulatory action seems unlikely soon, at least at the federal level. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has hinted that it would like to see pay-later loans incorporated into the credit reporting system. But while the agency oversees the credit reporting industry -- enforcing policies to ensure that the data is accurate and that consumer rights are protected -- it hasn't tried to require private companies to provide data to the bureaus.
Several states, including California, have taken action to regulate the pay-later industry, and others, including New York, are considering doing so. But those efforts wouldn't immediately require the loans to be reported to credit bureaus.
Banks and other traditional lenders report to the credit bureaus because the data is helpful in lending decisions and because it provides a stick to encourage borrowers to repay: If they don't, their credit scores will suffer.
Pay-later providers may not feel much pressure to begin reporting because their business is growing and most consumers are making their payments, said Ted Rossman, senior industry analyst at Bankrate. But if the economy slows and more consumers start falling behind on payments, lenders might decide they need to join the credit reporting system to judge borrowers' reliability.
"Delinquencies are pretty low, the job market's been solid, so maybe that's not created the same urgency," he said. "'Buy now, pay later' has yet to have its real delinquency reckoning. People keep warning about it. Maybe that will ultimately be what spurs change here."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B2.

Subject: Credit bureaus; Consumers; Credit reports; Credit scoring; Loans; Regulation of financial institutions

Business indexing term: Subject: Credit bureaus Consumers Credit reports Credit scoring Loans Regulation of financial institutions

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Fair Isaac Corp; NAICS: 513210, 541512; Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111, 334220, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/23/business/economy/buy-now-pay-later-credit.html

Title: Credit Scores Don't Reflect 'Pa y Later':   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 29, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3047750891

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/credit-scores-dont-reflect-pay-later/docview/3047750891/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How to Claim Your Part of $5.6 Million Ring Settlement With F.T.C.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Lu, Yiwen

Publication info: Lu, Yiwen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-claim-your-part-5-6-million-ring-settlement/docview/3047040976/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Federal Trade Commission is sending payments to customers who had certain Ring home security cameras and accounts during a particular time period, the agency said.
The Federal Trade Commission said this week that some people who had bought certain home security cameras made by Ring, which is owned by Amazon, would be eligible for refunds for their purchase. The payments, totaling more than $ 5.6 million, are part of a settlement between Ring and the F.T.C. over claims that the company failed to protect customer accounts.
Here's what to know.
What is the lawsuit about?
The F.T.C. sued Ring last May, accusing the company of giving employees and contractors access to customers' private video footage. The agency said in its complaint that Ring had used the videos to train computer algorithms without first getting customers' consent. Ring also failed to have proper protections, which made customer accounts, videos and cameras more vulnerable to hacking, the F.T.C. said.
The F.T.C. and Ring reached a settlement that month. As part of the agreement, Ring paid a settlement that would be used for customer refunds, deleted all private videos that it shouldn't have access to, and established a privacy and security program. The F.T.C. is now using the money Ring paid to send 117,044 PayPal payments to affected customers.
Ring did not immediately respond to a request for comment. But in a statement after the settlement, Ring said that it addressed issues about its security and privacy practices "well before" the F.T.C.'s lawsuit, and that the agency "mischaracterizes our security practices and ignores the many protections we have in place for our customers."
How do I find out if I am eligible for the refund?
If you had a Ring account and certain types of Ring devices, such as the indoor camera models Stick Up Cam and Indoor Cam, before Feb. 1, 2018, you are eligible for a refund, according to a court order.
The defendant -- in this case, Ring -- is typically required to provide a list of customers, their contact information and how much they paid. The F.T.C. will use the information to send payments.
Eligible customers should have already received an email from the F.T.C.
How much will I receive?
Your payment depends on the type of Ring device you owned and the time you had your account.
I got a PayPal payment from the F.T.C. How do I know if it is real?
If you are eligible for a refund, you should have received an email from the agency (from the address subscribe@subscribe.ftc.gov) before Tuesday. Since payments were issued on Tuesday, you should have received another email from PayPal about the refund. You have to redeem the payment by May 22, or it will be returned to the F.T.C.
If you would like the F.T.C. to send you a check instead, or have any other questions about the payment, you can speak with the refund administrator, Rust Consulting, by calling 1-833-637-4884. You can also email your request to info@ring.com.
Photograph The Federal Trade Commission sued Ring last year, accusing the company of giving workers and contractors access to customers' private footage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Settlements & damages; Cameras; Customers; Privacy; Litigation

Business indexing term: Subject: Customers

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/25/technology/ring-settlement-claim.html

Title: How to Claim Your Part of $5.6 Million Ring Settlement With F.T.C.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 27, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3047040976

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-claim-your-part-5-6-million-ring-settlement/docview/3047040976/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

You're Surrounded by Scammers: [Style Desk]

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/youre-surrounded-scammers/docview/3042293423/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: To own a computer or smartphone -- indeed, to engage with the digital world to any degree -- is to be a mark. You can try to block, encrypt and unsubscribe your way out of it, but you may not succeed.
You open your eyes and grope for your phone. You check your inbox and discover dozens of spam emails that made it past the filter.
Tapping over to Instagram, you find a request for a supposed brand collaboration in your DMs. Your WhatsApp notifications, meanwhile, consist solely of strangers asking you to invest in a cryptocurrency exchange.
A recruiting manager has contacted you through LinkedIn to say they are "impressed with your unique background and journey" and want to discuss "exciting job opportunities" at several Fortune 500 companies.
While scrolling social media on your lunch break, you see Tom Hanks promoting a dental plan and Taylor Swift peddling a cookware giveaway. (Or at least that's what seems to be going on.)
On the way home from work, you receive a text alert from FedEx, with a tracking number and a link to update your delivery preferences -- except you don't remember any pending shipments to your home.
Should you click the link? Pick up that call? Pursue that job opportunity? Is the person who texted you "hey" just now from a number you don't recognize someone you actually know?
Welcome to Scam World, the seedy layer just beneath the world we live in every day. It's cluttered with these bogus text messages, spam calls and phishing attempts.
In Scam World, any engagement with a stranger is a risk. Thanks to spoofing, for example, which cloaks the identity and location of the computer or phone being used, a call could be from a helpful customer service representative or a cyber criminal pretending to be one.
The internet is moving too fast for regulators to keep up with the quickly evolving deceptions.
There are political donation scams, in which someone masquerading as a campaign worker seeks a contribution. There are sextortion scams, in which a person posing as a hacker claims to have recorded you watching porn through your laptop camera. There are medical billing scams, rental scams, employment scams.
Seemingly every facet of daily life now comes with its attendant scam -- even death, when details in online obituaries result in identity theft. And the prospect that we may be deceived at any time "leaves us feeling vulnerable," said Pamela Rutledge, the director of the Media Psychology Research Center in Boston.
"The lack of trust means you're not able to take information at face value," she said. "You've got a heightened state of vigilance."
'Groomed' to Be Scammed
In the early years of digital culture, the border between the real world and the internet was firm. Surfing the web for an hour or two in the evening felt like a hobby separate from the business of everyday life.
Now we carry the internet around in our pockets and rely on it for practically every aspect of daily life. "We are in the computer," said Rachel Tobac, the chief executive of SocialProof Security, a cybersecurity company.
Living our lives online has bred a misplaced but necessary trust. It would be difficult to use TikTok, Uber and Gmail every day while believing that doing so creates a perilous risk. Many people "turn their brains off" when they go about their business on these apps and platforms, Ms. Tobac said, "because it is so stressful to consider that these interactions are potentially harming."
To be sure, there are still plenty of real-world fraudsters and grifters, some of whom -- like Anna Delvey and Sam Bankman-Fried -- have become figures of fascination. But "a digital realm creates a bigger funnel -- at less cost -- for scams," said Cory Doctorow, a journalist and science-fiction author who has written about the web since its early days.
Mr. Doctorow noted that, just as the internet has made routine tasks less burdensome, it has also made scams much easier to pull off. Picture an old-school boiler room in which fast-talking con artists place hundreds of phone calls in an effort to fleece strangers out of their savings, he said. Now fast forward to 2024, when scammers can send out millions of phishing texts and emails with the help of bots.
"If you can automate parts of it," Mr. Doctorow said, "you can cast a much wider net."
Text scams tricked Americans out of $ 300 million in 2022, the Federal Trade Commission reported. That same year, Americans received 225 billion spam texts, a 157 percent increase from the previous year, according to a report by Robokiller, a company that sells a spam-blocker app.
As digitally savvy and cautious as he is, Mr. Doctorow is not immune to phishing.
In December, while vacationing with his family in New Orleans, he got a call from his bank asking if had spent $ 1,000 at an Apple store in New York. In fact, the caller was a scammer who had gotten hold of Mr. Doctorow's phone number and the name of his credit union -- perhaps from one of the many data brokers that collect personal information and sell it to third parties -- and then used spoofing software to appear as his bank on his caller ID.
During the call, Mr. Doctorow gave out the last seven digits of his debit card number -- enough information for the scammer to run up charges on his account.
Sophisticated tech makes this kind of deception possible. But Mr. Doctorow argued that, thanks to outsourcing and automation, the typical communication sent by the customer service departments of many large companies has become "indistinguishable from a phishing scam."
The prevalence of online deceptions can also add a bit of unwanted drama to mundane tasks. Recently, Ms. Rutledge, the psychologist, thought she was being scammed when she received a letter from a government office on "the crappiest letterhead I've ever seen."
"This can't possibly be real," she remembered thinking.
But it was.
As Mr. Doctorow put it, "The legitimate world looks so much like a scam that it's much easier to make a scam look like the legit world."
A Dystopian Present
The science fiction author William Gibson, who coined the term cyberspace, made a hacker the protagonist of his 1984 novel, "Neuromancer," which is set in the 2030s. Some 25 years after he wrote it, he began setting his books not in the distant future but in the present.
The fraught landscape of the 2020s seems especially Gibson-like -- a destabilizing, fatiguing grind in which the very technology we rely on makes us unsure that what we see and hear is real.
Two recent incidents reveal how easy it is to get sucked into Scam World.
In February, a finance worker in Hong Kong was tricked into transferring $ 26 million of his company's money to fraudsters who impersonated his colleagues on a video call. The scam made use of "deepfake" recreations sophisticated enough to make him believe he was speaking with his boss and other staff members. (The phony promotions featuring Tom Hanks and Taylor Swift used similar technology.)
Days after Bloomberg reported on the elaborate scam in Hong Kong, The Cut published a first-person account by Charlotte Cowles headlined "The Day I Put $ 50,000 in a Shoe Box and Handed It to a Stranger."
Toward the start of the story, Ms. Cowles, a financial journalist who has also written for The New York Times, writes that "a polite woman with a vague accent told me she was calling from Amazon customer service to check some unusual activity on my account."
What followed was a psychodrama straight out of Hitchcock: After Ms. Cowles was informed that she was the victim of identity theft, she was transferred to an F.T.C. investigator and then to a C.I.A. agent. She learned that she was being investigated for federal crimes and that her phone was tapped.
The hourslong ordeal -- a drama entirely manufactured by scammers, played out over a phone line -- contained all the ingredients of a modern scam, Ms. Tobac said. "They're spoofing customer service, building authority with sensitive details from data brokerage sites, using urgency and fear and appealing to authority," she said.
The reactions to the story were not universally sympathetic, and Ms. Cowles understood the complaints of critics who found her credulous.
"Certainly before this happened to me, I was someone who didn't think I was vulnerable to scams," she said in an interview.
The numbers belie that reaction, however.
More than 600,000 cases involving impostor scams were reported in the United States last year, costing Americans more than $ 2 billion, according to the F.T.C. The victims included Andy Cohen, the Bravo TV host, who went on NBC's "Today" show in January to warn viewers of how he had lost thousands of dollars to someone posing as a representative from his bank.
Not long ago, online scams were much easier to spot. An elderly person ill at ease with the internet might fall for a clumsy, typo-ridden email asking for cash, but the rest of us were too web-savvy to be duped.
Nowadays, the victims of internet fraud are more likely to be people who grew up online. In 2023, for the first time, 18- to 24-year-olds lost more money to scams than any other age group, according to the Better Business Bureau.
TikTok is rife with Gen Z-ers posting about how they fell for an ad promoting a deal for a trendy mirror, or applied to a fake position on a job site, or had their email hacked by scammers who then hijacked their PayPal account.
Being digitally native doesn't inoculate you; in fact, it makes you a target.
'Politely Paranoid'
Martha McCully describes herself as "a very organized person," and someone who keeps her online passwords in an encrypted vault in Bitwarden. A writer and brand consultant who splits her time between California and New York, Ms. McCully, 63, says she never clicks on a random link.
"How do I know you're Chase?" Ms. McCully asked the woman who called her last December.
She had received a text from her bank, asking if she had spent $ 2,400 at Walmart. When she replied no, her phone immediately rang. The caller ID listed the number as "Chase Debit Card" on her screen, since Ms. McCully had put the number on the back of her card into her contacts.
By now, you know where this is going.
Ms. McCully stayed on the phone with a woman supposedly from Chase for more than two hours, time enough for the scammer to drain her account of $ 50,000 through wire transfers. In a diabolical maneuver, the woman was also spoofing Ms. McCully's number to Chase representatives to make the transactions.
Her encrypted passwords offered her no protection. And Chase was not able to claw back the stolen money; it is probably gone for good, Ms. McCully said.
"I'm now so paranoid about everything," she said. "I was having this dream this morning that my backyard was broken into."
Ms. Cowles, the financial columnist, was similarly shaken after being scammed. She said she has been thinking lately about the book "Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion" by Robert Cialdini, which posits that when humans receive a favor or help, as happens during an exchange with a customer service representative, they are wired to reciprocate.
"That is a deeply embedded survival instinct," Ms. Cowles said. "But now that we are so surrounded by information and noise, it's almost as if our ability to understand who to fully trust has gone haywire. We have to second-guess ourselves every day."
The strategies people have used to ward off the risks of the analog world may not apply to the new digital reality, said Ms. Tobac, the cybersecurity expert.
"We're in easy territory for attackers," she said. "We haven't built up defenses."
"I'm skeptical about almost everyone," Ms. Tobac continued, noting that when she was contacted for this article, she put the reporter's email address into a verification tool and used a second method of communication, reaching out on X. Only then did she feel safe enough to agree to a phone interview.
Ms. Tobac calls her approach being "politely paranoid." She has to repeat her multi-step verification process dozens if not hundreds of times a week. Polite or not, she has learned to embrace the paranoia.
As if to underscore what it takes to maintain security in Scam World, she said midway through the interview: "This, by the way, is not my real number."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page ST10.

Subject: Customer services; Internet; Automation; Cybercrime; Identity theft

Business indexing term: Subject: Customer services Automation Identity theft

Location: China; New York; United States--US; Hong Kong China

People: Swift, Taylor; Hanks, Tom

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/19/style/scams-identity-theft.html

Title: You're Surrounded by Scammers:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 21, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3042293423

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newsp apers/youre-surrounded-scammers/docview/3042293423/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Ability to Raise Cash Enters Trump's Vice-Presidential Calculations: [National Desk]

Author: Bender, Michael C

Publication info: Bender, Michael C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ability-raise-cash-enters-trumps-vice/docview/3038254523/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Donald Trump's concerns about money may have entered his vice-presidential calculations, along with political considerations and which contenders he likes the look of.
As former President Donald J. Trump sifts through potential running mates, he has peppered some advisers and associates with a direct question: Which Republican could best help him raise money for the rest of the presidential campaign?
That inquiry reflects the evolving calculations of Mr. Trump's vice-presidential search -- and how his scramble to keep up with President Biden's colossal fund-raising totals may be weighing on his mind as he considers his options.
Mr. Trump's selection process, which is still in its early stages, has largely revolved around conventional questions like who could step in as president if needed, political calculations including contenders' position on abortion rights, and more Trumpian curiosities like whether a politician physically resembles his idea of a vice president.
But Mr. Trump has asked several people about the fund-raising prowess of possible running mates, according to three people with direct knowledge of the conversations, signaling a fresh angle in his search for a running mate.
The initial feedback has pointed him toward a handful of members of Congress with strong donor connections and at least one deep-pocketed governor. One long-shot possibility with a proven record of raising piles of cash -- former Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina -- was only recently a bitter presidential rival, and her name can spark outrage from Mr. Trump.
"Trump is going to want a team player, and this is going to be about adding value to the ticket," said former Speaker Kevin McCarthy, who remains close with Mr. Trump and set records for Republican fund-raising. "It's also going to be about someone who understands the job -- who understands the Senate and the House -- because he's not going to want to waste one minute in office."
This article is based on interviews with nearly a dozen Republican operatives and politicians who are familiar with Mr. Trump's deliberations, some of whom have ties to the possible contenders and all of whom insisted on anonymity to discuss the private conversations.
In some cases, Mr. Trump is still getting to know potential contenders.
After a recent meeting at Mar-a-Lago with former Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, a Democrat-turned-independent who has become popular among conservatives, he made clear to advisers that she should be on his list of options.
In other cases, Mr. Trump has fixated on the whimsical over the practical. He has asked several people about running with Robert F. Kennedy Jr., saying he is intrigued by the branding potential of a "Trump-Kennedy" ticket despite his recent attacks on Mr. Kennedy and the unlikelihood of such a scenario. Mr. Trump's campaign team remains adamantly opposed to the idea, and Mr. Kennedy, who is already running for president as an independent, has said he would not consider such an offer.
It is also unclear among Mr. Trump's advisers whether he ultimately intends to give considerable weight to a contender's fund-raising ability, or whether his recent focus is a consequence of his overall concerns about cash. That fixation has permeated both his presidential bid and his costly legal defense in his four criminal cases -- and further blurred the line between the two.
The former president relied on one of his political fund-raising vehicles, the Save America PAC, to pay for roughly $ 50 million in legal expenses last year. He has started replenishing that fund with help from the Republican National Committee, where recently installed Trump loyalists now control the purse strings.
Mr. Trump's campaign team, meanwhile, has acknowledged that it expects to be outspent by Mr. Biden and the Democratic Party. Mr. Trump has responded with a furious pace of fund-raising, despite his typical prickliness at the idea of having to ask wealthy donors for cash.
"There is no shortage of immensely qualified people President Trump can choose from," said Steven Cheung, a Trump campaign spokesman. "He'll make his decision when he is ready and at the appropriate time."
If fund-raising concerns further influence his vice-presidential search, that path could lead toward a pair of former Republican presidential primary opponents, Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota and Ms. Haley, and a coterie of members of Congress, including Representative Elise Stefanik of New York and Senators Marco Rubio of Florida, Tim Scott of South Carolina and J.D. Vance of Ohio.
Mr. Trump has signaled interest in all of them as potential running mates, except for Ms. Haley. To some people, he is said to have shown indifference when asked about Ms. Haley's joining his ticket. To others, he has savaged her with brutal and personal criticisms.
Still, one of the truisms of Trump World is that no one is ever completely cast out unless they want to be left out. For her part, Ms. Haley said during the campaign that she would not serve as anybody's No. 2.
But when it comes to supplementing Mr. Trump's own fund-raising ability, Ms. Haley could prove a compelling choice. Ms. Haley's presidential campaign and allied groups collected more than $ 146 million, according to Open Secrets, which tracks campaign fund-raising.
Of that total, $ 14.3 million came in small contributions collected mostly online -- an impressive sum considering that her team needed to find email addresses and phone numbers for donors not already supporting Mr. Trump.
Mr. Burgum, for his part, did not raise much for his presidential campaign, but he is worth hundreds of millions of dollars due largely to the sale of his computer program business to Microsoft in 2001.
Mr. Trump also has a history of populating his inner circle with wealthy businessmen. Mr. Burgum attended a fund-raiser at Mar-a-Lago this month and, at Mr. Trump's request, addressed the crowd of about 100 donors, as did Mr. Scott and Vivek Ramaswamy, a businessman who ran for president this year, The Wall Street Journal reported.
Mr. Rubio built a formidable fund-raising operation for his own presidential bid in 2016. And while many of those donors, such as Isaac Perlmutter, the former chairman of Marvel Entertainment, are already supportive of Mr. Trump, others are not.
Norman Braman, a billionaire South Florida auto dealer, and Paul Singer, the founder of the Elliott Management hedge fund, two key financial backers of Mr. Rubio in 2016, both put money behind presidential primary opponents of Mr. Trump this year. Mr. Braman supported Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, and Mr. Singer donated to Ms. Haley.
One complication for Mr. Rubio's vice-presidential prospects is that he and Mr. Trump are both residents of the same state, which could run afoul of a constitutional rule.
While Mr. Trump maintains additional homes in New Jersey and New York, and switched his residency as president, he has told people Mr. Rubio would have to legally move to another state to join the ticket.
Mr. Trump has told these people that it would probably be difficult for Mr. Rubio to move his family but that Florida voters would be too upset to lose the former president as a resident.
Mr. Scott, the only Black Republican in the Senate, has already started helping Mr. Trump raise money.
Ahead of a Trump fund-raiser at Mar-a-Lago this month, he called several donors to urge them to pitch in. He was also one of the hosts of a fund-raiser in Greenville, S.C., held days before the state's presidential primary, that netted a reported $ 6 million for the former president.
As Mr. Scott ran for president last year, donors plowed $ 45.9 million into his campaign and allied groups, about two-thirds of which came from large donations, according to Open Secrets.
Larry Ellison, a co-founder of Oracle and a longtime Scott supporter, has lobbied Mr. Trump to add the South Carolina senator to his ticket. Mr. Ellison's involvement was first reported by Puck, which has also described Mr. Trump's interest in contenders who are strong fund-raisers.
Ms. Stefanik's network of donors comes from across the conservative spectrum.
A former aide in President George W. Bush's White House, Ms. Stefanik has received support since her first House victory a decade ago from several wealthy establishment donors, including Cliff Asness, a billionaire founder of AQR Capital Management, who backed Ms. Haley's presidential bid, and Mr. Singer. She met with recently with Mr. Singer and laid out why she thought Mr. Trump would win in November, and Mr. Asness hosted a small group meeting for her at his office where she did the same.
Since vigorously defending Mr. Trump against his first impeachment in 2019, Ms. Stefanik has also developed relationships with donors affiliated more closely with his conservative movement. Mr. Perlmutter has hosted fund-raisers for her along with Steve Wynn, the casino mogul, who has privately urged Mr. Trump to consider Ms. Stefanik.
Ms. Stefanik, who replaced former Representative Liz Cheney as the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, has also drawn interest more recently from donors compelled by her push to investigate antisemitism on college campuses. In the first three months of the year, she collected $ 7.1 million for her own re-election and other Republican causes, her campaign announced this month.
Mr. Vance is close with Donald Trump Jr., the former president's eldest son and a key political adviser, and the pair helped raise money to pay for a Trump rally in Ohio to benefit Bernie Moreno, the Republican nominee for Senate in the state.
Mr. Vance also has ties to Silicon Valley from his time working as a venture capitalist in San Francisco for Peter Thiel, the billionaire founder of PayPal. Mr. Thiel was one of Mr. Trump's biggest donors in 2016 and spent roughly $ 35 million on Republicans in 2022 but has said he does not plan to be involved in the presidential contest this year.
One of Mr. Thiel's close associates, David Sacks, gave more than $ 1 million to political causes in 2022. He was involved with the announcement of Mr. DeSantis's primary challenge against Mr. Trump but was also spotted at a fund-raiser Mr. Vance held his year for Mr. Moreno, where Mr. Sacks spent time chatting with the younger Mr. Trump.
Mr. Vance and Blake Masters, an Arizona House candidate and fellow Thiel acolyte, are exploring a Silicon Valley fund-raiser for the elder Mr. Trump, although a person familiar with the matter said the event was still in the planning stages.
Photograph Tulsi Gabbard, a former Democratic congresswoman who has shifted to the right, is seen as a possible vice-presidential pick. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE LUIS MAGANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is not considered a serious prospect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Representative Elise Stefanik has a network of donors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Gov. Doug Burgum is worth hundreds of millions of dollars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MABANGLO/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOC); Senator J.D. Vance raised money with Donald Trump Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VALERIE PLESCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Senator Tim Scott drew donor interest in his presidential run. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Senator Marco Rubio has support from G.O.P. donors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA ANDRADE-RHOADES/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page A13.

Subject: Fund raising; Political campaigns; Donations; Presidential elections; Political finance; Vice Presidents

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

Location: South Carolina; Florida; New York; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Mar-a-Lago Club; NAICS: 713910; Name: Senate-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/14/us/politics/trump-vice-president-pick.html

Title: The Ability to Raise Cash Enters Trump's Vice-Presidential Calculations:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.13

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 15, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3038254523

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ability-raise-cash-enters-trumps-vice/docview/3038254523/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Trump Ponders VP Contenders, He Asks: Can They Help Me Raise Cash?

Author: Bender, Michael C

Publication info: Bender, Michael C. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-trump-ponders-vp-contenders-he-asks-can-they/docview/3038214755/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — As former President Donald Trump sifts through potential running mates, he has peppered some advisers and associates with a direct question: Which Republican could best help him raise money for the rest of the presidential campaign?
That inquiry reflects the evolving calculations of Trump’s vice-presidential search — and how his scramble to keep up with President Joe Biden’s colossal fundraising totals may be weighing on his mind as he considers his options.
Trump’s selection process, which is still in its early stages, has largely revolved around conventional questions like who could step in as president if needed, political calculations including contenders’ position on abortion rights and more Trumpian curiosities like whether a politician physically resembles his idea of a vice president.
But Trump has asked several people about the fundraising prowess of possible running mates, according to three people with direct knowledge of the conversations, signaling a fresh angle in his search for a running mate.
The initial feedback has pointed him toward a handful of members of Congress with strong donor connections and at least one deep-pocketed governor. One long-shot possibility with a proven record of raising piles of cash — former Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina — was only recently a bitter presidential rival, and her name can spark outrage from Trump.
“Trump is going to want a team player, and this is going to be about adding value to the ticket,” said former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, who remains close with Trump and set records for Republican fundraising. “It’s also going to be about someone who understands the job — who understands the Senate and the House — because he’s not going to want to waste one minute in office.”
This article is based on interviews with nearly a dozen Republican operatives and politicians who are familiar with Trump’s deliberations, some of whom have ties to the possible contenders and all of whom insisted on anonymity to discuss the private conversations.
In some cases, Trump is still getting to know potential contenders.
After a recent meeting at Mar-a-Lago with former Rep. Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, a Democrat-turned-independent who has become popular among conservatives, he made clear to advisers that she should be on his list of options.
In other cases, Trump has fixated on the whimsical over the practical. He has asked several people about running with Robert F. Kennedy Jr., saying he is intrigued by the branding potential of a “Trump-Kennedy” ticket despite his recent attacks on Kennedy and the unlikelihood of such a scenario. Trump’s campaign team remains adamantly opposed to the idea, and Kennedy, who is running for president as an independent, has said he would not consider such an offer.
It is also unclear among Trump’s advisers whether he ultimately intends to give considerable weight to a contender’s fundraising ability or whether his recent focus is a consequence of his overall concerns about cash. That fixation has permeated both his presidential bid and his costly legal defense in his four criminal cases — and further blurred the line between the two.
The former president relied on one of his political fundraising vehicles, the Save America PAC, to pay for roughly $50 million in legal expenses last year. He has started replenishing that fund with help from the Republican National Committee, where recently installed Trump loyalists now control the purse strings.
Trump’s campaign team, meanwhile, has acknowledged that it expects to be outspent by Biden and the Democratic Party. Trump has responded with a furious pace of fundraising, despite his typical prickliness at the idea of having to ask wealthy donors for cash.
“There is no shortage of immensely qualified people President Trump can choose from,” said Steven Cheung, a Trump campaign spokesperson. “He’ll make his decision when he is ready and at the appropriate time.”
If fundraising concerns further influence his vice-presidential search, that path could lead toward a pair of former Republican presidential primary opponents, Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota and Haley; and a coterie of members of Congress, including Rep. Elise Stefanik of New York and Sens. Marco Rubio of Florida, Tim Scott of South Carolina and J.D. Vance of Ohio.
Trump has signaled interest in all of them as potential running mates, except for Haley. To some people, he is said to have shown indifference when asked about Haley joining his ticket. To others, he has savaged her with brutal and personal criticisms.
Still, one of the truisms of Trump World is that no one is ever completely cast out unless they want to be left out. For her part, Haley said during the campaign that she would not serve as anybody’s No. 2.
But when it comes to supplementing Trump’s own fundraising ability, Haley could prove a compelling choice. Haley’s presidential campaign and allied groups collected more than $146 million, according to Open Secrets, which tracks campaign fundraising.
Of that total, $14.3 million came in small contributions collected mostly online — an impressive sum considering that her team needed to find email addresses and phone numbers for donors not already supporting Trump.
Burgum, for his part, did not raise much for his presidential campaign, but he is worth hundreds of millions of dollars due largely to the sale of his computer program business to Microsoft in 2001.
Trump also has a history of populating his inner circle with wealthy businesspeople. Burgum attended a fundraiser at Mar-a-Lago this month and, at Trump’s request, addressed the crowd of about 100 donors, as did Scott and Vivek Ramaswamy, a businessperson who ran for president this year, The Wall Street Journal reported.
Rubio built a formidable fundraising operation for his own presidential bid in 2016. And while many of those donors, such as Isaac Perlmutter, the former chair of Marvel Entertainment, are supportive of Trump, others are not.
Norman Braman, a billionaire South Florida auto dealer, and Paul Singer, founder of the Elliott Management hedge fund, two key financial backers of Rubio in 2016, both put money behind presidential primary opponents of Trump this year. Braman supported Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, and Singer donated to Haley.
One complication for Rubio’s vice-presidential prospects is that he and Trump are both residents of the same state, which could run afoul of a constitutional rule.
While Trump maintains additional homes in New Jersey and New York, and switched his residency as president, he has told people Rubio would have to legally move to another state to join the ticket.
Trump has told these people that it would probably be difficult for Rubio to move his family but that Florida voters would be too upset to lose the former president as a resident.
Scott, the only Black Republican in the Senate, is already helping Trump raise money.
Ahead of a Trump fundraiser at Mar-a-Lago this month, he called several donors to urge them to pitch in. He was also one of the hosts of a fundraiser in Greenville, South Carolina, held days before the state’s presidential primary, that netted a reported $6 million for the former president.
As Scott ran for president last year, donors plowed $45.9 million into his campaign and allied groups, about two-thirds of which came from large donations, according to Open Secrets.
Larry Ellison, a co-founder of Oracle and a longtime Scott supporter, has lobbied Trump to add the South Carolina senator to his ticket. Ellison’s involvement was first reported by Puck, which has also described Trump’s interest in contenders who are strong fundraisers.
Stefanik’s network of donors comes from across the conservative spectrum.
A former aide in President George W. Bush’s White House, Stefanik has received support since her first House victory a decade ago from several wealthy establishment donors, including Cliff Asness, a billionaire founder of AQR Capital Management, who backed . Haley’s presidential bid; and Singer. She met with recently with Singer and laid out why she thought Trump would win in November, and Asness hosted a small group meeting for her at his office where she did the same.
Since vigorously defending Trump against his first impeachment in 2019, Stefanik has also developed relationships with donors affiliated more closely with his conservative movement. Perlmutter has hosted fundraisers for her along with Steve Wynn, the casino mogul, who has privately urged Trump to consider Stefanik.
Stefanik, who replaced former Rep. Liz Cheney as the chair of the House Republican Conference, has also drawn interest more recently from donors compelled by her push to investigate antisemitism on college campuses. In the first three months of the year, she collected $7.1 million for her own reelection and other Republican causes, her campaign announced this month.
Vance is close with Donald Trump Jr., the former president’s eldest son and a key political adviser, and the pair helped raise money to pay for a Trump rally in Ohio to benefit Bernie Moreno, the Republican nominee for Senate in the state.
Vance also has ties to Silicon Valley from his time working as a venture capitalist in San Francisco for Peter Thiel, the billionaire founder of PayPal. Thiel was one of Trump’s biggest donors in 2016 and spent roughly $35 million on Republicans in 2022 but has said he does not plan to be involved in the presidential contest this year.
One of Thiel’s close associates, David Sacks, gave more than $1 million to political causes in 2022. He was involved with the announcement of DeSantis’ primary challenge against Trump but was also spotted at a fundraiser Vance held this year for Moreno, where Sacks spent time chatting with the younger Trump.
Vance and Blake Masters, an Arizona House candidate and fellow Thiel acolyte, are exploring a Silicon Valley fundraiser for the elder Trump, although a person familiar with the matter said the event was still in the planning stages.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fund raising; Political campaigns; Donations; Presidential elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations

Location: South Carolina; North Dakota; New York; United States--US; Florida; Iowa

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Mar-a-Lago Club; NAICS: 713910; Name: Senate-US; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Presidential Election Of 2020; Thiel, Peter A; San Francisco (Calif); New York State; Masters, Blake (1986 ); Desantis, Ron; Microsoft Corp; Braman, Norman; Gabbard, Tulsi (1981 ); Primaries And Caucuses; Kennedy, Robert F Jr; House Of Representatives; Elliott Management Corp; Hedge Funds; Senate; Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Singer, Paul E; Florida; Impeachment; North Dakota; Aqr Capital Management Llc; Stefanik, Elise; United States; Conservatism (Us Politics); Arizona; Bush, George W; Ellison, Lawrence J; Politics And Government; Marvel E ntertainment; Mccarthy, Kevin (1965 ); Elections, House Of Representatives; Presidential Election Of 2016; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Wynn, Stephen A; Vance, J D; Presidential Election Of 2024; Ohio; United States Politics And Government; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Republican National Committee; Scott, Timothy Eugene; Moreno, Bernie (1967 ); Wall Street Journal; Federal State Relations (Us); Computers And The Internet; Burgum, Douglas; Entrepreneurship; South Carolina; Sacks, David O; New Jersey; Mar A Lago (Palm Beach, Fla); Greenville (Sc); Search And Seizure; Democrat ic Party; States (Us); Newspapers; Republican Party; Rubio, Marco; Haley, Nikki R; United States International Relations; Kennedy, Robert Francis; Hawaii; Trump, Donald J; High Net Worth Individuals; Trump, Donald J Jr; Oracle Corporation; Cheney, Liz; Campaign Finance; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Southern States (Us)

Title: As Trump Ponders VP Contenders, He Asks: Can They Help Me Raise Cash?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 14, 2024

Dateline: 2024-04-14T21:41:24Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3038214755

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-trump-ponders-vp-contenders-he-asks-can-they/docview/3038214755/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Incendiary Commentator Rides Rage Over Israel to Online Prominence: [National Desk]

Author: Steven Lee Myers; Hsu, Tiffany

Publication info: Steven Lee Myers; Hsu, Tiffany. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/incendiary-commentator-rides-rage-over-israel/docview/3037241012/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Jackson Hinkle has cultivated an online persona so incendiary that he has been kicked off YouTube, Twitch and Instagram.
He rages on undaunted, even energized. He produces a regular podcast on Rumble, a website popular with many prominent conservatives. He writes dozens of posts a day on X, where his following has surged to 2.5 million from 417,000 in the six months since Oct. 7 -- the day Hamas fighters mounted their assault on Israel.
Along the way, he has employed false or misleading content, promoted manipulated images and made comments that watchdog organizations have denounced as antisemitic. He calls himself an American patriot even as he praises American adversaries, including Vladimir V. Putin, Xi Jinping and Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
"DROP A LIKE if you stand with IRAN in the face of ISRAELI TERRORISM!" he wrote last week on X after an Israeli airstrike in Syria killed several Iranian military officials. A day later he addressed the Houthi leadership in Yemen over video, praising the group for its attacks on shipping in the Red Sea.
It has all made Mr. Hinkle an online celebrity at age 24, a Gen Z symbol of the modern internet: a place where authenticity is no longer a necessity, and outrage offers attention and even some financial reward.
"It was a godsend for me at the time," he said in an interview about his surge in popularity on X amid the war in Gaza. "I was very fortunate."
His sudden rise may stem from more than good luck.
Two Israeli research companies that specialize in online threats, and that have focused on what they consider disinformation related to the war in Gaza, said they had identified coordinated and possibly state-sponsored networks of bots or inauthentic accounts that were amplifying Mr. Hinkle's provocative brew of political views. China, Russia and other foreign actors are known to use such tactics to achieve their geopolitical goals -- including efforts to influence this fall's presidential election.
Mr. Hinkle has also benefited from changes by X's owner, Elon Musk, including the cancellation of policies that once limited toxic content. With the addition of a premium subscription feature, he now charges certain followers $ 3 a month for what he calls "extra cool stuff," including behind-the-scenes videos and "random thoughts." X allows him to pocket up to 97 percent of the revenue -- money that Mr. Hinkle has told subscribers helps him "continue exposing the Deep State."
Imran Ahmed, the head of the Center for Countering Digital Hate, a research organization, said Mr. Hinkle was part of "a sort of new cadre of people who exploit the algorithms' insatiable desire for highly contentious content to benefit themselves economically."
In a new report, the center documented a staggering rise in followers for 10 prominent accounts on X that spread antisemitic content since the start of the war between Israel and Hamas.
Mr. Hinkle's was at the top, by far.
"It's sort of a sick industry of creators and platforms who benefit from contention," Mr. Ahmed said, "the sort of car-crash nature of how people react to hate."
Mr. Hinkle, for his part, seems to relish the limelight.
To illustrate a post about the Gaza conflict, he used a stylized cartoon of himself dressed in military gear with a rifle in front of a fireball. His profile on X and other platforms includes a doctored image of his bloodied face surrounded by a ring of pistols.
Mr. Hinkle solicits donations and sells merchandise to support his "independent journalism" on platforms like Patreon, having already been barred from PayPal and Venmo.
In the interview, Mr. Hinkle emphasized that he did not accept any payments from foreign governments, but he spoke unapologetically about his support for -- and from -- often hostile foreign powers. He visited Russia and China this year at the invitation of organizations close to the governments, dining with Russia's foreign minister and appearing on state-controlled television networks.
"I think they appreciate support wherever they can get it," he said.
From Bernie bro to MAGA fan
From an early age, Mr. Hinkle understood that zealous support of a cause could win public attention. He grew up in San Clemente, in Southern California, a surfer who heavily marketed his own embrace of environmental activism, gun control measures and progressive politics.
As a teenager, he helped start an environmental cleanup organization and another to encourage young people to run for political office. Teen Vogue recognized him as a top young environmentalist; Reader's Digest included him on a list of inspirational children. He posed in an Instagram photo with the actor Will Smith, whose son Jaden Smith worked with Mr. Hinkle to limit plastic water bottles in schools.
Perry Meade, a progressive organizer who worked with Mr. Hinkle on campaigns as teenagers, said his "overarching understanding of Jackson was that he always wanted to be famous," adding, "Sure, he cared about things, but he came first."
His activities soon turned political. At his high school graduation in 2018, he knelt during the national anthem in protest against police brutality and racial injustice. He twice ran unsuccessfully for San Clemente's City Council, when he was 19 and 20. One local conservative blog called him "an extreme left-wing ideologue."
He said in the interview that, after his political losses, he had "decided to still pursue the issues I cared about -- but on the national stage."
Mr. Hinkle found that stage on YouTube, where one of his big coups, he said, was an interview with Tulsi Gabbard, a Democratic presidential candidate in 2020. At its peak, his channel reached 300,000 subscribers.
His views, like those of Ms. Gabbard, who once joined him surfing, have shifted. The Sierra Club, one of the largest environmental organizations in the world, included Mr. Hinkle in a get-out-the-vote video filmed in 2018. By 2022, he was on social media describing environmentalism as "anti-human."
Today, he says he is a Stalinist and a Maoist who was expelled from the Communist Party of the United States. (Roberta Wood, a party leader in Chicago, said he subscribed to the newsletter but had never joined the party and did not reflect its values.) He once supported Bernie Sanders, but now praises former President Donald J. Trump.
He is, he wrote last year, an "American PATRIOT, GOD fearing, Pro-FAMILY, Marxist Leninist, Pro-PALESTINE, RUSSIA & CHINA, Anti-DEEP STATE, Anti-IMPERIALIST, Anti-WOKE, Pro-GROWTH, ANTI-MONOPOLY, Pro-GUN, Pro-FOSSIL FUEL."
An international pivot
As Mr. Hinkle's focus settled on international affairs, his audiences grew. He supported authoritarian leaders like Bashar al-Assad of Syria, whom he called a "hero." When Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, he embraced Mr. Putin's rationale for the conflict.
Mr. Hinkle has become a "merchant of rage," said Pekka Kallioniemi, who researches social media and disinformation at Tampere University in Finland.
"The way he moves on from one thing to another, it seems very opportunistic to me," Mr. Kallioniemi said.
Mr. Hinkle drew critics' attention for frequently spreading Russian propaganda about Ukraine, including disinformation linked to covert Kremlin campaigns. His affection for Russia was personal, too.
He first traveled there in September with Anna Linnikova, a model crowned Miss Russia in 2022. For a time, they were engaged to be married. Mr. Hinkle posted a photo of the pair posing in front of Moscow's Red Square last year and said they were moving to Miami together. (By the end of 2023, they appeared to have split acrimoniously.)
He visited Russia again recently to attend a conference organized by Konstantin Malofeyev and Aleksandr Dugin, both prominent nationalists who face sanctions in the United States. He said he had been attracted by Mr. Dugin's writings, which glorify Russian culture, as an antidote to corrupted values in the West.
YouTube suspended his channel in October for "repeated violations" of the company's policy that prohibits denying or trivializing major violent events, including the war in Ukraine, according to a company spokesman.
It was only when Hamas invaded Israel that month, though -- when Mr. Hinkle began posting constantly about criticism of Israel and Russian support for Palestinians -- that his account on X reached stratospheric heights.
Several organized networks of inauthentic accounts amplified his posts, according to Next Dim, an Israeli company that studies inauthentic activity online and that previously found evidence of an effort to amplify pro-Beijing messages on X.
One of the organized networks had previously boosted unrelated content -- in Chinese -- that criticized the Japanese government for releasing radioactive wastewater from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in August, the researchers found. Once the fighting began in Gaza, the same network, which had at least 20,000 accounts, began reposting Mr. Hinkle's content.
Another research company in Israel, Cyabra, found that Mr. Hinkle's account gained 1.2 million followers over the first 19 days of the war. A sample of 12,510 of them suggested that roughly 40 percent were fakes.
In the interview, Mr. Hinkle shrugged off the findings of inauthentic support for his account. "There's always going to be bots on social media," he said. He acknowledged that he had made mistakes in some posts, but said they weren't intentional, and he argued that the scale of Israel's retaliation in Gaza vindicated his view of the conflict.
"I think if we're going to focus on people who are putting out false information, an incorrect Twitter photo is not the biggest deal in comparison to lies that are used to sell a war," he said.
Losing his YouTube subscribers, he said, had cost him three-quarters of his salary. He suggested that he had recouped the loss with his activities on X, principally through subscribers. "I'm doing OK, I guess," he said.
He declined to say how much his posts earned, or how many paid subscribers he had. In October, he noted that he had made $ 550 the previous month from X's advertising revenue-sharing model. His profile recently featured ads for a large Emirati airline, a major shoe brand and a popular travel blog, but he said revenue was limited because his posts were too controversial for some advertisers.
Mr. Hinkle spoke admiringly of Tucker Carlson, the former Fox News host who has peddled pro-Russian narratives, and Candace Owens, a conservative commentator who left The Daily Wire's website last month. Mr. Hinkle, who said he had turned down a job offer from a foreign media outlet that he declined to disclose, compared himself to Mr. Carlson and Ms. Owens: "We're all independent -- not by choice."
"You know, of course, I'd be happy if there was any media outlet in the United States that wanted to hire someone like me," he said, "but our values don't align, so I don't think that's in my future."
Photograph After being kicked off YouTube, Twitch and Instagram, Jackson Hinkle, above, found a home for his podcast on Rumble. A Putin magnet adorns the refrigerator in Mr. Hinkle's apartment, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YSA PÉREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A17.

Subject: Politics; Social networks; Antisemitism; False information; Nuclear power plants

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Nuclear power plants

Location: Russia; United States--US; Israel; China; Gaza Strip; San Clemente California; Syria; Ukraine

People: Hinkle, Jackson

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/11/business/media/jackson-hinkle-israel-gaza-misinformation.html

Title: Incendiary Commentator Rides Rage Over Israel to Online Prominence:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 12, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3037241012

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/incendiary-commentator-rides-rage-over-israel/docview/3037241012/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Riding Rage Over Israel to Online Prominence

Author: Steven Lee Myers; Hsu, Tiffany

Publication info: Steven Lee Myers; Hsu, Tiffany. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/riding-rage-over-israel-online-prominence/docview/3037183377/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Jackson Hinkle has cultivated an online persona so incendiary that he has been kicked off YouTube, Twitch and Instagram.
He rages on undaunted, even energized. He produces a regular podcast on Rumble, a website popular with many prominent conservatives. He writes dozens of posts a day on X, where his following has surged to 2.5 million from 417,000 in the six months since Oct. 7 — the day Hamas fighters mounted their assault on Israel.
Along the way, he has employed false or misleading content, promoted manipulated images and made comments that watchdog organizations have denounced as antisemitic. He calls himself an American patriot even as he praises U.S. adversaries, including Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping and Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
“DROP A LIKE if you stand with IRAN in the face of ISRAELI TERRORISM!” he wrote last week on X after an Israeli airstrike in Syria killed several Iranian military officials. A day later he addressed the Houthi leadership in Yemen over video, praising the group for its attacks on shipping in the Red Sea.
It has all made Hinkle an online celebrity at age 24, a Gen Z symbol of the modern internet: a place where authenticity is no longer a necessity, and outrage offers attention and even some financial reward.
“It was a godsend for me at the time,” he said in an interview about his surge in popularity on X amid the war in the Gaza Strip. “I was very fortunate.”
His sudden rise may stem from more than good luck.
Two Israeli research companies that specialize in online threats, and that have focused on what they consider disinformation related to the war in Gaza, said they had identified coordinated and possibly state-sponsored networks of bots or inauthentic accounts that were amplifying Hinkle’s provocative brew of political views. China, Russia and other foreign actors are known to use such tactics to achieve their geopolitical goals — including efforts to influence this fall’s presidential election.
Hinkle has also benefited from changes by X’s owner, Elon Musk, including the cancellation of policies that once limited toxic content. With the addition of a premium subscription feature, he now charges certain followers $3 a month for what he calls “extra cool stuff,” including behind-the-scenes videos and “random thoughts.” X allows him to pocket up to 97% of the revenue — money that Hinkle has told subscribers helps him “continue exposing the Deep State.”
Imran Ahmed, the head of the Center for Countering Digital Hate, a research organization, said Hinkle was part of “a sort of new cadre of people who exploit the algorithms’ insatiable desire for highly contentious content to benefit themselves economically.”
In a new report, the center documented a staggering rise in followers for 10 prominent accounts on X that spread antisemitic content since the start of the war between Israel and Hamas.
Hinkle’s was at the top, by far.
“It’s sort of a sick industry of creators and platforms who benefit from contention,” Ahmed said, “the sort of car-crash nature of how people react to hate.”
Hinkle, for his part, seems to relish the limelight.
To illustrate a post about the Gaza conflict, he used a stylized cartoon of himself dressed in military gear with a rifle in front of a fireball. His profile on X and other platforms includes a doctored image of his bloodied face surrounded by a ring of pistols.
Hinkle solicits donations and sells merchandise to support his “independent journalism” on platforms such as Patreon, having already been banned from PayPal and Venmo.
In the interview, Hinkle emphasized that he did not accept any payments from foreign governments, but he spoke unapologetically about his support for — and from — often hostile foreign powers. He visited Russia and China this year at the invitation of organizations close to the governments, dining with Russia’s foreign minister and appearing on state-controlled television networks.
“I think they appreciate support wherever they can get it,” he said.
From Bernie Bro to MAGA Fan
From an early age, Hinkle understood that zealous support of a cause could win public attention. He grew up in San Clemente, in Southern California, a surfer who heavily marketed his own embrace of environmental activism, gun control measures and progressive politics.
As a teenager, he helped start an environmental cleanup organization and another to encourage young people to run for political office. Teen Vogue recognized him as a top young environmentalist; Reader’s Digest included him on a list of inspirational children. He posed in an Instagram photo with the actor Will Smith, whose son Jaden Smith worked with Hinkle to limit plastic water bottles in schools.
Perry Meade, a progressive organizer who worked with Hinkle on campaigns as teenagers, said his “overarching understanding of Jackson was that he always wanted to be famous,” adding, Sure, he cared about things, but he came first.”
His activities soon turned political. At his high school graduation in 2018, he knelt during the national anthem in protest against police brutality and racial injustice. He twice ran unsuccessfully for San Clemente’s City Council, when he was 19 and 20. One local conservative blog called him “an extreme left-wing ideologue.”
He said in the interview that, after his political losses, he had “decided to still pursue the issues I cared about — but on the national stage.”
Hinkle found that stage on YouTube, where one of his big coups, he said, was an interview with Tulsi Gabbard, a Democratic presidential candidate in 2020. At its peak, his channel reached 300,000 subscribers.
His views, like those of Gabbard, who once joined him surfing, have shifted. The Sierra Club, one of the largest environmental organizations in the world, included Hinkle in a get-out-the-vote video filmed in 2018. By 2022, he was on social media describing environmentalism as “anti-human.”
Today, he says he is a Stalinist and a Maoist who was expelled from the Communist Party of the United States. (Roberta Wood, a party leader in Chicago, said he subscribed to the newsletter but had never joined the party and did not reflect its values.) He once supported Bernie Sanders, but now praises former President Donald Trump.
He is, he wrote last year, an “American PATRIOT, GOD fearing, Pro-FAMILY, Marxist Leninist, Pro-PALESTINE, RUSSIA & CHINA, Anti-DEEP STATE, Anti-IMPERIALIST, Anti-WOKE, Pro-GROWTH, ANTI-MONOPOLY, Pro-GUN, Pro-FOSSIL FUEL.”
An International Pivot
As Hinkle’s focus settled on international affairs, his audiences grew. He supported authoritarian leaders such as Bashar Assad of Syria, whom he called a “hero.” When Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, he embraced Putin’s rationale for the conflict.
Hinkle has become a “merchant of rage,” said Pekka Kallioniemi, who researches social media and disinformation at Tampere University in Finland.
“The way he moves on from one thing to another, it seems very opportunistic to me,” Kallioniemi said.
Hinkle drew critics’ attention for frequently spreading Russian propaganda about Ukraine, including disinformation linked to covert Kremlin campaigns. His affection for Russia was personal, too.
He first traveled there in September with Anna Linnikova, a model crowned Miss Russia in 2022. For a time, they were engaged to be married. Hinkle posted a photo of the pair posing in front of Moscow’s Red Square last year and said they were moving to Miami together. (By the end of 2023, they appeared to have split acrimoniously.)
He visited Russia again recently to attend a conference organized by Konstantin Malofeyev and Aleksandr Dugin, both prominent nationalists who face sanctions in the United States. He said he had been attracted by Dugin’s writings, which glorify Russian culture, as an antidote to corrupted values in the West.
YouTube suspended his channel in October for “repeated violations” of the company’s policy that prohibits denying or trivializing major violent events, including the war in Ukraine, according to a company spokesperson.
It was only when Hamas invaded Israel that month, though — when Hinkle began posting constantly about criticism of Israel and Russian support for Palestinians — that his account on X reached stratospheric heights.
Several organized networks of inauthentic accounts amplified his posts, according to Next Dim, an Israeli company that studies inauthentic activity online and that previously found evidence of an effort to amplify pro-Beijing messages on X.
One of the organized networks had previously boosted unrelated content — in Chinese — that criticized the Japanese government for releasing radioactive wastewater from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in August, the researchers found. Once the fighting began in Gaza, the same network, which had at least 20,000 accounts, began reposting Hinkle’s content.
Another research company in Israel, Cyabra, found that Hinkle’s account gained 1.2 million followers over the first 19 days of the war. A sample of 12,510 of them suggested that roughly 40% were fakes.
In the interview, Hinkle shrugged off the findings of inauthentic support for his account. “There’s always going to be bots on social media,” he said. He acknowledged that he had made mistakes in some posts, but said they weren’t intentional, and he argued that the scale of Israel’s retaliation in Gaza vindicated his view of the conflict.
“I think if we’re going to focus on people who are putting out false information, an incorrect Twitter photo is not the biggest deal in comparison to lies that are used to sell a war,” he said.
Losing his YouTube subscribers, he said, had cost him three-quarters of his salary. He suggested that he had recouped the loss with his activities on X, principally through subscribers. “I’m doing OK, I guess,” he said.
He declined to say how much his posts earned, or how many paid subscribers he had. In October, he noted that he had made $550 the previous month from X’s advertising revenue sharing model. His profile recently featured ads for a large Emirati airline, a major shoe brand and a popular travel blog, but he said revenue was limited because his posts were too controversial for some advertisers.
Hinkle spoke admiringly of Tucker Carlson, the former Fox News host who has peddled pro-Russian narratives, and Candace Owens, a conservative commentator who left The Daily Wire’s website last month. Hinkle, who said he had turned down a job offer from a foreign media outlet that he declined to disclose, compared himself to Carlson and Owens: “We’re all independent — not by choice.”
“You know, of course, I’d be happy if there was any media outlet in the United States that wanted to hire someone like me,” he said, “but our values don’t align, so I don’t think that’s in my future.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Politics; Social networks; Antisemitism; False information; Nuclear power plants

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks Nuclear power plants

Location: Russia; United States--US; Israel; China; Gaza Strip; San Clemente California; Syria; Ukraine

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Sierra Club; Myers, Steven Lee; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Freedom Of The Press; Smith, Will; Putin, Vladimir V; Primaries And Caucuses; Red Square (Moscow); Hamas; War And Armed Conflicts; Vogue; Blogs And Blogging (Internet); Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant (Japan); Assad, Bashar Al; United States; Carlson, Tucker; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Russian Americans; Conservatism (Us Politics); Ukraine; Syria; Presidential Election Of 2020; Palestinians; Israel; Elections; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; California; Iran; Environment; Social Media; Instagram Inc; Rumble Inc; Nuclear Energy; Venmo; Weddings And Engagements; Presidential Election Of 2024; Defense And Military Forces; X (Formerly Twitter); Research; Discrimination; Center For Countering Digital Hate; Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; San Clemente (Calif); International Relations; News And News Media; YoutubeCom; Rumors And Misinformation; Twitch Interactive Inc; The Daily Wire; Dugin, Alexander (1962 ); Polls And Public Opinion; Teen Vogue; Gaza Strip; Japan; Generation Z; Khamenei, Ali; Houthis; Owens, Candace; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Labor And Jobs; Fox News Channel; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Media; Anti Semitism; Instant Messaging; Russia; Television; Trump, Donald J; Moscow (Russia); Nuclear Weapons; Sanders, Bernard; Patreon Inc; Propaganda; Anger (Emotion); Business; Smith, Jaden; Chicago (Ill); Models (Professional); Xi Jinping; Terrorism; Fringe Groups And Movements; Red Sea; Ethics And Official Misconduct; China

Title: Riding Rage Over Israel to Online Prominence

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 11, 2024

Dateline: 2024-04-11T22:08:03Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3037183377

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/riding-rage-over-israel-online-prominence/docview/3037183377/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The British Museum Sues a Former Curator: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Marshall, Alex

Publication info: Marshall, Alex. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/british-museum-sues-former-curator/docview/3014689528/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The museum accuses Peter Higgs, a former keeper of Greek and Roman antiquities, of stealing or damaging at least 1,800 artifacts and selling many on eBay.
A judge has ordered a former curator who the British Museum says stole hundreds of artifacts to return any gems or jewelry from the institution that are in his possession.
The museum claims that the former curator, Peter Higgs, who once ran the museum's Greek and Roman antiquities department, stole or damaged over 1,800 artifacts from its collections and sold hundreds of those items on eBay, according to court documents.
Officials also want Mr. Higgs to explain the whereabouts of other artifacts that they say the former curator sold online. The court documents state that Mr. Higgs disputes the accusations against him.
At a High Court hearing in London, the presiding judge, Heather Williams, ordered Mr. Higgs to return any items within four weeks. Judge Williams also ordered PayPal, the online payments company, to disclose data relating to Mr. Higgs's eBay accounts, including his transaction history.
The missing museum items include engraved gems and jewelry, some of which are thousands of years old.
On Tuesday, Mr. Higgs and his family did not respond to emails and social media messages from The Times. In court papers, the museum's lawyers said the curator was "suffering from severe mental strain" and was "unable to respond effectively to the proceedings."
Since the museum announced the thefts in August, it has only recovered around 350 of the missing artifacts.
The London police are investigating, but a spokeswoman for the force said in an email on Wednesday that it had not charged anyone in connection with the missing artifacts.
The museum said in court documents that it had "compelling evidence" that between 2009 and 2018, Mr. Higgs "abused his position of trust within the museum" to take artifacts, including items that the museum hadn't fully registered in its catalog. Mr. Higgs then sold many of them on eBay to at least 45 different buyers, the museum says. Those buyers allegedly include people from the United States and Denmark.
In the filing, the museum also accuses the former curator of attempting to cover up the thefts by altering the museum's digital catalog, including changing descriptions of missing items.
Although British newspapers had long reported that Mr. Higgs was the curator at the center of the scandal, Tuesday's hearing was the first time that the museum had named him.
When the museum fired Mr. Higgs for gross misconduct in July, he had been working there for over 30 years. In 2021, the museum promoted Mr. Higgs to acting keeper of its Greek and Roman department -- an important position overseeing some of the museum's most treasured artifacts, including the disputed Parthenon Marbles.
Mr. Higgs curated several blockbuster British Museum shows, including a 2016 exhibition on Sicilian history. Another of his exhibitions, "Ancient Greeks: Athletes Warriors and Heroes," toured to Australia and China.
The museum's legal team told the court that the institution was trying to compel Mr. Higgs to give details about the items it says he stole because there was a risk they could soon "become irrecoverable."
"So long as the items are at large, recovery of the stolen items becomes more difficult as items are sold and resold, potentially across borders," the museum's lawyers told the court. "The sooner the museum is able to contact other buyers," it adds, "the more likely it is that further property will be recovered."
Photograph Peter Higgs, right, a former British Museum curator, in 2017 with Hartwig Fischer, who was the museum's director at the time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMUEL DE ROMAN/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Historic artifacts; Court hearings & proceedings; Jewelry; Curators; Scandals; Museums

Business indexing term: Subject: Museums

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/27/arts/design/british-museum-thefts-peter-higgs.html

Title: The British Museum Sues a Former Curator:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 30, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3014689528

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/british-museum-sues-former-curator/docview/3014689528/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 30, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Technology Colossus Finds Itself Besieged By Global Challenges: [National Desk]

Author: Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/technology-colossus-finds-itself-besieged-global/docview/2973000619/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Justice Department's lawsuit against Apple is the latest in a series of regulatory actions that are hitting the tech giant at the same time.
For more than a decade, Apple could do almost no wrong. The iPhone made it the world's most valuable company. The App Store helped launch businesses such as Uber and Airbnb. And the company's new products made it a player in health, Hollywood and finance.
Now, the difficulties are piling up. The Justice Department filed an antitrust lawsuit against Apple on Thursday for giving its own products advantages that it deprived rivals of having. The suit is the latest in a series of actions brought against the company by regulators on four continents.
The troubles are testing the resiliency of Apple's brand and undermining its business dominance, even though Apple's products remain popular and continue to power an extremely profitable business. The company reported $ 97 billion in profit last year on $ 386 billion in sales.
Here's a look at the challenges ahead.
U.S. v. Apple
The Justice Department filed a sweeping antitrust lawsuit against Apple on Thursday that takes direct aim at the company's most important business: the iPhone. The government argued in an 88-page lawsuit that Apple broke antitrust laws by preventing other companies from offering applications that compete with Apple products, like its digital wallet.
The suit follows a yearslong investigation into Apple that focused on the ways that the company has controlled the user experience on iPhones and other devices to create what critics call an uneven playing field. It has granted its own products and services access to core features like its NFC chip and notification system that it denies rivals like PayPal and Garmin smartwatches.
It could be months before the case goes to trial.
European Regulators v. Apple
On March 4, the European Commission fined Apple 1.8 billion euros ( $ 1.95 billion) for thwarting competition by preventing music streaming rivals from offering users promotions and subscription upgrades. Because Apple is the sole gatekeeper controlling developers' access to iPhone customers, European regulators said that it wrote the rules for the App Store in ways that allowed Apple Music to offer benefits that it denied rivals like Spotify.
"From now on, Apple will have to allow music streaming developers to communicate freely with their own users," said Margrethe Vestager, the European Commission executive vice president who oversees competition policy. The size of the fine, she added, "reflects both Apple's financial power and the harm that Apple's conduct inflicted on millions of European users."
Since the fine was issued, Apple has delayed a request by Spotify to inform users of offers on its website, Spotify said. The European Commission has said that Apple could face additional fines if it fails to comply with orders.
South Korea and the Netherlands v. Apple
Apple is facing fines from regulators in the Netherlands and South Korea, as well.
In 2021, Dutch regulators ruled that Apple violated competition laws in the dating app market by preventing services such as Tinder from using payment systems other than the one Apple provides. Rather than allow other payment systems to collect that money, Apple reduced its commission to 27 percent on the price paid per user, from its usual rate of 30 percent. But Dutch regulators said that move didn't comply with the law and last year fined Apple €50 million ( $ 53 million).
A similar situation is playing out in South Korea, where lawmakers were among the first in the world to respond to developer complaints about App Store commissions by passing legislation to force Apple to allow alternative payment systems. Apple relaxed its requirement to 26 percent. The country's telecommunications regulator said it might fine Apple $ 15.4 million for "unfair practices."
Apple said that it disagreed with the findings of Dutch and South Korean regulators. It is appealing the Dutch fine and awaiting the results of a South Korean investigation.
Japan, Australia and Britain v. Apple
Several other countries are exploring legislation or regulation that could force Apple to loosen its grip, including Japan, Australia and Britain. The regulatory changes they are discussing could require Apple to offer alternative payment options and reduce its commissions. Having watched how Apple has complied with similar laws elsewhere, the lawmakers could choose to be more prescriptive in their rule making.
The rules would be the latest to fracture what was once a single App Store into a jumble of digital shops across national borders.
China v. Apple
Last fall, China began telling employees of government agencies not to use iPhones for work. The authorities made no public pronouncements beyond pointing out that there were "media reports" about security flaws in iPhones. But the directive has rippled through the country's smartphone market.
Sales of iPhones in China fell 24 percent in the first six weeks of the year, according to Counterpoint Research, which tracks the smartphone industry. At the same time sales of Huawei, once China's largest smartphone maker, surged 64 percent behind the introduction of a new phone with 5G wireless capabilities.
Epic v. Apple
Apple largely triumphed over Epic Games, the maker of Fortnite, after the video game company sued Apple in 2020 over the App Store. But a federal judge struck a serious blow against Apple's control of the App Store, ruling that it violated California's competition laws by preventing app makers from providing alternative ways to pay for services.
After the Supreme Court decided not to take up the case, Apple said that it would comply with the ruling just as it has complied in the Netherlands: by cutting its commission to 27 percent for developers who use alternative payment options.
Last week, Epic filed a motion in court challenging Apple's compliance, saying that the new fees and rules subvert the judge's order. Meta and Microsoft have filed a brief in support of Epic, setting the table for the court to have to rule again on whether Apple is violating California law.
Developers v. Apple
Before European regulators began enforcing a new competition law to give customers more choice this month, app makers were complaining that Apple's response to the law defied the rules. The company was supposed to open the iPhone to alternative app stores and payment systems, but it added those capabilities alongside new commissions and requirements.
On Monday, developers met with Apple in Europe and questioned how the fees complied with the law, which has several "free of charge" provisions. Apple has insisted that its policies are consistent with the new rules.
European regulators could open a formal investigation into Apple's plans. The process could set up a lengthy legal battle that could force Apple to change or risk fines up to 10 percent of its global annual revenue, which was nearly $ 400 billion last year.
Wall Street v. Apple
Apple's investors are clamoring for it to jump into the world of generative artificial intelligence. The technology, which can answer questions, create images and write code, has been heralded for its potential to create trillions of dollars in economic value.
But at a time when peers such as Microsoft and Google are beginning to build generative A.I. businesses, Apple has yet to introduce a product. Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, has assured investors that something is coming later this year. The company has held talks with Google about adding its A.I. model called Gemini to iPhones.
Investors have sent shares of Apple down more than 3.75 percent this year. At the same time, the Nasdaq Composite Index, which is chock-full of tech stocks, has risen nearly 11 percent.
Photograph Legal and regulatory difficulties around the world are testing the resiliency of Apple's brand and undermining its dominance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A20.

Subject: Antitrust; Smartphones; Commissions; Payment systems; Litigation; Competition

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Smartphones Commissions Payment systems

Location: Netherlands; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; Australia; China; California; Japan; South Korea

Company / organization: Name: European Commission; NAICS: 928120; Name: Spotify AB; NAICS: 516210, 518210; Name: Department of Justice; NAICS: 922130; Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111, 334220, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/21/technology/apple-regulators-world.html

Title: A Technology Colossus Finds Itself Besieged By Global Challenges:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.20

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 22, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2973000619

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/technology-colossus-finds-itself-besieged-global/docview/2973000619/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Finally, an I.P.O. for Reddit: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/finally-i-p-o-reddit/docview/2956989040/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The site, a throwback to an earlier era of social media, is poised to go public as soon as next week. It hasn't been easy to reach this point.
During a leadership crisis in 2015, Reddit asked Steve Huffman, one of its founders, to return to run the social media platform.
Mr. Huffman, who was working on a travel site, was not eager to come back. Reddit was a headache. It was experiencing a revolving door of chief executives. Its sprawling community of users was combative with management. Reddit's ownership was also complicated, and its technology was lagging behind competitors.
"I ran into the burning building," Mr. Huffman said in a 2017 podcast describing his return.
This month, Reddit is poised to reach the stock market in one of the first tech initial public offerings of the year. Its move stands out. Unlike a recent crop of start-ups that are focused entirely on artificial intelligence, the 19-year-old company is a throwback to an earlier era of social media. It is also trying to go public at a time when investors have been skeptical of tech offerings.
But what stands out the most is that Reddit is able to go public at all.
After being early to social media, the San Francisco-based company stagnated for years. It faced questions and controversies for its freewheeling stance toward free speech. It struggled to build a viable business, and was initially resistant to advertising -- until it wasn't.
After Mr. Huffman returned, the company's revenues climbed to more than $ 800 million a year from $ 12 million, and its employees to 2,000 from 80. But Mr. Huffman continued encountering obstacles. Last June, when he increased fees for independent developers who used Reddit's data, many moderators on the site revolted by shutting down sections of the platform. And questions have swirled about the company's role in spreading misinformation.
"Reddit managed to survive, almost in spite of itself," said Ellen Pao, a former chief executive of Reddit who runs Project Include, a nonprofit organization in Silicon Valley focused on diversity.
This week, as Reddit began a roadshow to appeal to potential investors, the hurdles it faced were apparent. The company said it was aiming to raise up to $ 748 million in its offering, selling about 22 million shares at $ 31 to $ 34 each, according to a filing. That would put its valuation at around $ 6.4 billion, below the $ 10 billion valuation it fetched in 2021 during a private round of financing.
Skepticism about the I.P.O. was on display in a well-known Reddit community called WallStreetBets, a forum where people discuss stocks and trading and that helped fuel the rise of "meme stocks." Some commenters said Reddit had not proved that it could make money from its users or its data.
"HOW DO I SHORT THIS DUMPSTER FIRE STOCK!" one WallStreetBets user wrote last month. (Reddit has cited the forum as a risk factor in its regulatory filings, warning that it could cause "extreme volatility" in the company's stock price.)
Others said the public markets were hungry for tech offerings like Reddit. "It feels like there is plenty of demand for a nice I.P.O. story," said Barrett Daniels, a co-leader of U.S. I.P.O. services at Deloitte. "The reluctance here is to be the guinea pig."
Reddit declined to make executives available for an interview, citing the quiet period before an I.P.O.
Mr. Huffman and Alexis Ohanian founded Reddit in 2005 from a University of Virginia dorm room. They wanted to create a start-up that let people pre-order food on a cellphone, called My Mobile Menu or MMM.
They pitched the idea to Paul Graham and Jessica Livingston, who were setting up Y Combinator, a start-up incubator. Mr. Graham and Ms. Livingston rejected the food-ordering proposal but helped the founders come up with what would become Reddit: a social, link-sharing message board.
Reddit is reminiscent of old-school online bulletin boards and forums. With more than 73 million daily users, it is made up of largely text-based forums divided by different topics of interest, called "subreddits." These communities discuss everything from celebrity gossip to cosmetics advice to Bernese Mountain dogs. Thousands of volunteer moderators oversee the subreddits.
"Reddit is one of those rare places on the internet where you find niche interests, and broad interests, all in the same place," said Alfred Lin, a partner at Sequoia Capital, a venture capital firm that has invested in the company.
In 2006, Condé Nast bought Reddit for $ 10 million, turning Mr. Huffman and Mr. Ohanian into young millionaires overnight. Both founders eventually departed, leaving Reddit in the hands of a small team of hard-core "Redditors" who were very protective of the site.
That team was adamantly against evolving how Reddit looked and worked, out of fear it would alienate its core users. Its participants resisted building a mobile application well into the rise of the iPhone era, and were largely uninterested and did not have the bandwidth to turn Reddit into a moneymaking business.
The company also had a laissez-faire attitude to moderating speech on the site, which sometimes landed it in hot water. Some subreddits were toxic and devoted to racist themes or nonconsensual nude photos, the type of content that advertisers found repellent. Many employees were against data collection and more invasive forms of advertising.
"The community continued to grow, but there was just no product innovation," Mr. Lin said. "It kind of stagnated."
In 2011, Condé Nast's parent company, Advance Publications, made Reddit an independent entity after it recognized the site needed "start-up energy," Mr. Lin said.
Yishan Wong, a former Facebook and PayPal engineer, joined Reddit as chief executive in 2012 to turbocharge the site. He later brought on Ms. Pao, a former venture capitalist, to work on business development and partnerships.
Mr. Wong helped jump-start Reddit's development on mobile applications for the iPhone. Because Reddit had gone without an official mobile app for so long, independent developers had created their own versions of a Reddit app that users could pay to download.
When Mr. Wong left Reddit in 2014, Ms. Pao stepped in as interim chief executive. She began altering some of the site's policies on free speech and put resources into building the advertising business, angering many of Reddit's users, who believed she had overstepped.
They criticized Ms. Pao, who stepped down in 2015. Sam Altman, the chief executive of OpenAI, who was then on Reddit's board of directors, said at the time that the attacks on Ms. Pao "were worse on Ellen because she is a woman." Other employees said she was a scapegoat for general user angst.
Reddit asked Mr. Huffman to return. "It was one of the hardest decisions he ever had to make to come back," said Ms. Livingston, whose firm was Reddit's first investor.
Once back at the company, Mr. Huffman continued making policy changes on speech, including banning users and subreddits dedicated to hate speech. The company has built a team to deal with misinformation, and acquired A.I. companies to better detect and remove hate speech. He brought on new executives, such as Jen Wong, the chief operating officer, and Drew Vollero, the company's first chief financial officer.
Under Mr. Huffman, Reddit built out its advertising business. The company has also tapped into its troves of user data, striking deals with companies like Google that want to use the data to train their large language models, a kind of artificial intelligence that underlies chatbots, on how to better understand and replicate human speech. Reddit expects more than $ 200 million in licensing fees over the next few years from these deals.
Reddit has also tried bringing its site out of the Stone Age by updating its design. It is experimenting with revamped features that highlight photos and videos and has improved its algorithms to suggest different posts based on users' interests.
Not everything has gone smoothly, including a revolt by moderators last year. Mr. Huffman said in an interview at the time that there was general anxiety over Reddit's changes as part of a natural "maturation process."
Many current and former employees are relieved that after nearly 20 years of drama as a private company, Reddit is now days away from ringing the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange. In a private Slack group created by former employees, activity is soaring in anticipation of finally being able to sell their company shares, two former employees who are part of the group said.
Ms. Pao said she was "excited that the employees who worked really, really hard for years can finally get some upside."
Some former employees were also trading photographs of a "challenge coin" made to honor their time at Reddit. Stamped on the coin was the company's founding date and mascot (a smiling alien face based on a doodle Mr. Ohanian drew in college), according to a photo shared with The New York Times. The coin also had a brief message on it, using the site's vernacular for when users have read a link: "Been There, Already Reddit."
Photograph After Steve Huffman, the chief executive of Reddit, returned to the company, revenues climbed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY LOMBARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Startups; Employees; Social networks; Executives; Freedom of speech; Initial public offerings; False information; Hate speech; Advertising; Internet stocks

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups Employees Social networks Executives Initial public offerings Advertising Internet stocks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: WallStreetBets; NAICS: 518210; Name: Reddit Inc; NAICS: 5182 10

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/13/technology/reddit-public-offering-stock-market.html

Title: Finally, an I.P.O. for Reddit:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 15, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2956989040

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/finally-i-p-o-reddit/docview/2956989040/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Reddit’s Long, Rocky Road to an Initial Public Offering

Author: Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reddit-s-long-rocky-road-initial-public-offering/docview/2956919093/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — During a leadership crisis in 2015, Reddit asked Steve Huffman, one of its founders, to return to run the social media platform.
Huffman, who was working on a travel site, was not eager to come back. Reddit was a headache. It was experiencing a revolving door of CEOs. Its sprawling community of users was combative with management. Reddit’s ownership was also complicated, and its technology was lagging behind competitors.
“I ran into the burning building,” Huffman said in a 2017 podcast describing his return.
This month, Reddit is poised to reach the stock market in one of the first tech initial public offerings of the year. Its move stands out. Unlike a recent crop of startups that are focused entirely on artificial intelligence, the 19-year-old company is a throwback to an earlier era of social media. It is also trying to go public at a time when investors have been skeptical of tech offerings.
But what stands out the most is that Reddit is able to go public at all.
After being early to social media, the San Francisco-based company stagnated for years. It faced questions and controversies for its freewheeling stance toward free speech. It struggled to build a viable business, and was resistant to advertising — until it wasn’t.
After Huffman returned, the company’s revenues climbed to more than $800 million a year from $12 million, and its employees to 2,000 from 80. But Huffman continued encountering obstacles. In June, when he increased fees for independent developers who used Reddit’s data, many moderators on the site revolted by shutting down sections of the platform. And questions have swirled about the company’s role in spreading misinformation.
“Reddit managed to survive, almost in spite of itself,” said Ellen Pao, a former CEO of Reddit who runs Project Include, a nonprofit organization in Silicon Valley focused on diversity.
This week, as Reddit began a roadshow to appeal to potential investors, the hurdles it faced were apparent. The company said it was aiming to raise up to $748 million in its offering, selling about 22 million shares at $31 to $34 each, according to a filing. That would put its valuation at around $6.4 billion, below the $10 billion valuation it fetched in 2021 during a private round of financing.
Skepticism about the IPO was on display in a well-known Reddit community called WallStreetBets, a forum where people discuss stocks and trading and that helped fuel the rise of “meme stocks.” Some commenters said Reddit had not proved that it could make money from its users or its data.
“HOW DO I SHORT THIS DUMPSTER FIRE STOCK!” one WallStreetBets user wrote last month. (Reddit has cited the forum as a risk factor in its regulatory filings, warning that it could cause “extreme volatility” in the company’s stock price.)
Others said the public markets were hungry for tech offerings like Reddit. “It feels like there is plenty of demand for a nice IPO story,” said Barrett Daniels, a co-leader of U.S. IPO services at Deloitte. “The reluctance here is to be the guinea pig.”
Reddit declined to make executives available for an interview, citing the quiet period before an IPO.
Huffman and Alexis Ohanian founded Reddit in 2005 from a University of Virginia dorm room. They wanted to create a startup that let people preorder food on a cellphone, called My Mobile Menu or MMM.
They pitched the idea to Paul Graham and Jessica Livingston, who were setting up Y Combinator, a startup incubator. Graham and Livingston rejected the food-ordering proposal but helped the founders come up with what would become Reddit: a social, link-sharing message board.
Reddit is reminiscent of old-school online bulletin boards and forums. With more than 73 million daily users, it is made up of largely text-based forums divided by different topics of interest, called “subreddits.” These communities discuss everything from celebrity gossip to cosmetics advice to Bernese Mountain dogs. Thousands of volunteer moderators oversee the subreddits.
“Reddit is one of those rare places on the internet where you find niche interests, and broad interests, all in the same place,” said Alfred Lin, a partner at Sequoia Capital, a venture capital firm that has invested in the company.
In 2006, Condé Nast bought Reddit for $10 million, turning Huffman and Ohanian into young millionaires overnight. Both founders eventually departed, leaving Reddit in the hands of a small team of hardcore “Redditors” who were very protective of the site.
That team was adamantly against evolving how Reddit looked and worked, out of fear it would alienate its core users. Its participants resisted building a mobile application well into the rise of the iPhone era, and were largely uninterested and did not have the bandwidth to turn Reddit into a moneymaking business.
The company also had a laissez-faire attitude toward moderating speech on the site, which sometimes landed it in hot water. Some subreddits were toxic and devoted to racist themes or nonconsensual nude photos, the type of content that advertisers found repellent. Many employees were against data collection and more invasive forms of advertising.
“The community continued to grow, but there was just no product innovation,” Lin said. “It kind of stagnated.”
In 2011, Condé Nast’s parent company, Advance Publications, made Reddit an independent entity after it recognized the site needed “startup energy,” Lin said.
Yishan Wong, a former Facebook and PayPal engineer, joined Reddit as CEO in 2012 to turbocharge the site. He later brought on Pao, a former venture capitalist, to work on business development and partnerships.
Wong helped jump-start Reddit’s development on mobile applications for the iPhone. Because Reddit had gone without an official mobile app for so long, independent developers had created their own versions of a Reddit app that users could pay to download.
When Wong left Reddit in 2014, Pao stepped in as interim CEO. She began altering some of the site’s policies on free speech and put resources into building the advertising business, angering many of Reddit’s users, who believed she had overstepped.
They criticized Pao, who stepped down in 2015. Sam Altman, the CEO of OpenAI, who was then on Reddit’s board of directors, said at the time that the attacks on Pao “were worse on Ellen because she is a woman.” Other employees said she was a scapegoat for general user angst.
Reddit asked Huffman to return. “It was one of the hardest decisions he ever had to make to come back,” said Livingston, whose firm was Reddit’s first investor.
Once back at the company, Huffman continued making policy changes on speech, including banning users and subreddits dedicated to hate speech. The company has built a team to deal with misinformation, and acquired AI companies to better detect and remove hate speech. He brought on new executives, such as Jen Wong, the chief operating officer, and Drew Vollero, the company’s first chief financial officer.
Under Huffman, Reddit built out its advertising business. The company has also tapped into its troves of user data, striking deals with companies such as Google that want to use the data to train their large language models, a kind of artificial intelligence that underlies chatbots, on how to better understand and replicate human speech. Reddit expects more than $200 million in licensing fees over the next few years from these deals.
Reddit has also tried bringing its site out of the Stone Age by updating its design. It is experimenting with revamped features that highlight photos and videos and has improved its algorithms to suggest different posts based on users’ interests.
Not everything has gone smoothly, including a revolt by moderators last year. Huffman said in an interview at the time that there was general anxiety over Reddit’s changes as part of a natural “maturation process.”
Many current and former employees are relieved that after nearly 20 years of drama as a private company, Reddit is now days away from ringing the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange. In a private Slack group created by former employees, activity is soaring in anticipation of finally being able to sell their company shares, two former employees who are part of the group said.
Pao said she was “excited that the employees who worked really, really hard for years can finally get some upside.”
Some former employees were also trading photographs of a “challenge coin” made to honor their time at Reddit. Stamped on the coin was the company’s founding date and mascot (a smiling alien face based on a doodle Ohanian drew in college), according to a photo shared with The New York Times. The coin also had a brief message on it, using the site’s vernacular for when users have read a link: “Been There, Already Reddit.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Startups; Employees; Social networks; Freedom of speech; Initial public offerings; False information; Hate speech; Advertising; Chief executive officers; Internet stocks

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups Employees Social networks Initial public offerings Advertising Chief executive officers Internet stocks

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Pao, Ellen

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: WallStreetBets; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Slack Technologies Inc; Corporations; Photography; Y Combinator; Openai Labs; Wireless Communications; Artificial Intelligence; Virginia; Freedom Of Speech And Expression; Vollero, Drew; Business; Paypal; Locket (Mobile App); Privacy; Project Include; Currency; Venture Capital; Initial Public Offerings; United States; Mobile Applications; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Iphone; Google Inc; Ohanian, Alexis; Social Media; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Online Advertising; Reddit Inc; Capitalism (Theory And Philosophy); Wong, Yishan; Pao, Ellen; Discrimination; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Treasure Troves; Entrepreneurship; Rumors And Misinformation; Volunteers And Community Service; Facebook Inc; University Of Virginia; San Francisco (Calif); Graham, Paul (1964 ); Stocks And Bonds; Graham, Paul (1956 ); Executive Compensation; New York Stock Exchange; Labor And Jobs; Altman, Samuel H; Building (Construction); Sequoia Capital; World Economic Forum; Censorship; Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd; Huffman, Steve (1983 ); Start Ups

Title: Reddit’s Long, Rocky Road to an Initial Public Offering

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 14, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-14T22:40:13Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2956919093

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/reddit-s-long-rocky-road-initial-public-offering/docview/2956919093/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Elon Musk Has a Giant Charity. Its Money Stays Close to Home.

Author: Fahrenthold, David A; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Fahrenthold, David A; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elon-musk-has-giant-charity-money-stays-close/docview/2954534900/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BOCA CHICA, Texas — Before March 2021, Elon Musk’s charitable foundation had never announced any donations to Cameron County, an impoverished region at the southern tip of Texas that is home to his SpaceX launch site and local officials who help regulate it.
Then, at 8:05 one morning that month, a SpaceX rocket blew up, showering the area with a rain of twisted metal.
The Musk Foundation began giving at 9:27 a.m. local time.
“Am donating $20M to Cameron County schools & $10M to City of Brownsville for downtown revitalization,” Musk said on Twitter.
Musk, the world’s second-richest person, according to Forbes, presides over SpaceX, Tesla and other companies that are pushing the boundaries of technology, while also controlling a social media platform, now known as X, formerly Twitter, through which he promotes his often-polarizing political and social views.
At the same time, he runs a charity with billions of dollars, the kind of resources that could make a global impact. But unlike Bill Gates, who has deployed his fortune in an effort to improve health care across Africa, or Walmart’s Walton family, which has spurred change in the American education system, Musk’s philanthropy has been haphazard and largely self-serving — making him eligible for enormous tax breaks and helping his businesses.
Since 2020, he has seeded his charity with tax-deductible donations of stock worth more than $7 billion at the time, making it one of the largest in the country.
The foundation that houses the money has failed in recent years to give away the bare minimum required by law to justify the tax break, exposing it to the risk of having to pay the government a substantial financial penalty.
Musk has not hired any staff for his foundation, tax filings show. Its billions are handled by a board that consists of himself and two volunteers, one of whom reports putting in so little time that it averages out to six minutes per week.
In 2022, the last year for which records are available, they gave away $160 million, which was $234 million less than the law required — the fourth-largest shortfall of any foundation in the country.
Musk is under no obligation to have a charity, and he has made clear that he believes his for-profit enterprises will change the world for the better far more than any philanthropic venture could. But once he set up a nonprofit and filled it with tax-deductible gifts, he was required by law to ensure his foundation served the public and did not operate for the “private benefit” of its leader.
A New York Times analysis found that, of the Musk Foundation’s giving in 2021 and 2022 — the latest years for which full data is available — about half of the donations had some link to Musk, one of his employees or one of his businesses.
Among the donations the Musk Foundation has made, there was $55 million to help a major SpaceX customer meet a charitable pledge. There were the millions that went to Cameron County, Texas, after the rocket blew up. And there were donations to two schools closely tied to his businesses: one walled off inside a SpaceX compound, the other located next to a new subdivision for Musk’s employees.
“The really striking thing about Musk is the disjuncture between his outsized public persona, and his very, very minimal philanthropic presence,” said Benjamin Soskis, who studies philanthropy at the Urban Institute. Where other billionaires have aimed for a broad impact on society, Soskis said Musk’s foundation lacks “any direction or any real focus, outside his business ventures.”
Musk did not respond to requests for comment.
A School for His Children
Musk and his younger brother, Kimbal, started the Musk Foundation in 2001, a year before the sale of PayPal, the online payments company he co-founded, to eBay for $1.5 billion. He made more than $175 million in the sale and would seed his namesake foundation with about $2 million worth of eBay shares.
The Musk Foundation’s website initially included slick animations, featuring pictures of satellite dishes and children in classrooms, while encouraging people to apply for grants. By 2005, however, it was wiped clean, replaced by plain black text stating that the foundation was interested in “science education, pediatric health and clean energy.”
It listed no contact information. It still does not.
By September 2014, Forbes estimated that Musk’s net worth was more than $10 billion, driven up by the value of his holdings of Tesla stock. But he gave little to his own charity. That year, tax filings show, his foundation had $40,121 in the bank.
That fit with Musk’s public stance on philanthropy. His for-profit companies, he said, were his way of changing the world.
“Tesla has done more to help the environment than all other companies combined,” he said last year at The New York Times’ DealBook conference. “As a leader of the company, I’ve done more for the environment than any single human on earth.”
Musk, instead, used his small foundation to help groups tied to him personally, including a food charity run by his brother and a “Temple of Whollyness” that was set on fire at the 2013 Burning Man festival, an annual event that he often attends.
He also founded his own nonprofit school called Ad Astra — Latin for “to the stars” — to explore new ways to teach math and science.
But that school, too, would serve a personal purpose for Musk. In its first year of operation out of his home in the Bel-Air neighborhood of Los Angeles, five of Ad Astra’s 14 students were his own children.
“Kindness and eagerness to learn (and parents that worked at SpaceX) were the only criteria for admission,” wrote Joshua Dahn, the initial head of the school.
Ad Astra later moved to SpaceX’s Hawthorne, California, headquarters and grew to more than 50 students. About half were related to SpaceX employees, Dahn said in an email. Dahn’s contract even said that the intellectual property he developed at the school would be half owned by Musk personally, according to a copy obtained by the Times.
Two former SpaceX executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, recalled that Ad Astra was sometimes discussed as a perk for the children of executives, although it was understood to be nearly impossible for the offspring of rank-and-file employees to gain admission.
Musk made a $254 million gift of Tesla stock to his foundation in 2016, and its grants got bigger, but they still seemed to follow no coherent theme.
The Musk Foundation donated $10 million to OpenAI — the groundbreaking artificial intelligence developer, where he sat on the board of directors. (OpenAI was a nonprofit at the time of the gift, although it has now spun out several for-profit companies.) Musk said in a recent lawsuit against the organization and its founders that he personally gave an additional $34 million before stopping his gifts in 2020. Musk previously said he had given about $100 million to OpenAI.
But Musk’s giving often seemed guided by Twitter, where he made splashy promises in response to challenges from internet celebrities: He gave $1 million to plant trees after prompting from YouTuber Mr. Beast and $1 million to help small businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic after a push from Dave Portnoy, the founder of Barstool Sports.
On July 5, 2018, he began interacting with Amariyanna “Mari” Copeny, a youth activist in Flint, Michigan, who asked him for bicycles for local kids and clean water for her city, which was experiencing a crisis with its water supply. Less than a week later, Musk tweeted “a commitment” that he would “fund fixing the water in any house in Flint that has water contamination above FDA levels.”
“Will organize a weekend in Flint to add filters to those houses with issues,” he said in another tweet.
Karen Williams Weaver, a Democrat who was mayor of Flint at the time, said the city asked Musk to focus initially on helping schools. The Musk Foundation donated about $1 million to schools, paying to install water filters and buy laptops for students. It also gave $125,000 to a charity associated with Copeny that aimed to help Flint children.
Flint asked for much more.
It sent Musk a four-page letter, asking him to fund new water infrastructure and wide-scale pipe replacements in homes. It also asked Musk to open a research office or manufacturing facility in the city.
Few of those wishes came true. Tesla sent a corporate development executive, who offered rides around the City Hall parking lot in a company vehicle, and Musk briefly considered placing a self-driving AI facility in the city, according to communications obtained by the Times. He also visited Flint and Copeny’s school.
But Tesla never opened an office there. And since mid-2019, the Musk Foundation has not listed any more gifts to Flint for home water filters or other causes.
Still, the mayor said she was grateful. “He didn’t have to do anything,” she said.
Big Gift and Big Break
At the end of 2021, Musk had a problem. He had exercised options from a stock bonus plan from Tesla that gave him about $25 billion worth of shares in the automaker. But that came with a price.
“I will pay over $11 billion in taxes this year,” he later posted.
Tax law gives executives sitting on huge stores of their companies’ stock a way to lower that bill: charity. Musk could donate shares of Tesla, whose stock price had boomed in recent years, to a nonprofit and take a tax deduction based on the value of the stock. It did not matter that he might have paid little to obtain the shares.
In October of that year, Musk had publicly flirted with the idea of a charitable mega-gift. On Twitter, he wrote that if the United Nations World Food Program could describe how it would spend the money, he would sell Tesla stock and give the program $6 billion.
The U.N. program replied with a plan, but Musk gave nothing. Instead, Musk gave to his own foundation: 5 million Tesla shares, worth $5.7 billion at the time.
The gift tripled the Musk Foundation’s assets and put it among the 20 largest foundations in the country. Tax experts said it could have saved Musk more than $2 billion off his tax bill.
More donations from Musk meant more responsibility for his foundation. Tax law requires all foundations to give away 5% of their assets every year, so the Musk Foundation was expected to dole out hundreds of millions of dollars each year.
The foundation did not add paid staff to meet that new bench mark. The only recorded change was a tiny one: Matilda Simon, one of Musk’s family-office employees, who also serves as one of the foundation’s three volunteer board members, increased her workload from 0 hours to 0.1 hours, or six minutes a week, according to tax filings.
The foundation’s two other volunteers — Musk and Jared Birchall, who as head of Musk’s family office helps manage his wealth — reported that they each worked an hour a week. Simon and Birchall did not respond to a request for comment.
In 2021, the Musk Foundation fell $41 million short of the minimum required donation, tax filings show. In 2022, it missed the 5% mark by even more: $193 million. That year, Musk’s foundation gave away only about 2.25% of its $7 billion in assets, far below the 5% minimum, tax filings show.
With shortfall piled on shortfall, the Musk Foundation was then left $234 million behind by the end of 2022, the fourth-largest gap of any foundation in the country, according to Cause IQ, a firm that analyzes charity data.
“It tells you it’s not yet ready for prime time,” said Brian Galle, a professor who studies nonprofit law at Georgetown University, referring to the minimal giveaways by the foundation. “It’s not yet a professional organization.”
The Musk Foundation has not released details of what it gave away in 2023 or whether it made up its shortfall from the year before. If it did not, it could owe a penalty tax equal to 30% of the remaining shortfall from 2022.
Some of the money that the Musk Foundation did give away during those years went to groups with no obvious connection to Musk’s businesses.
The foundation, for instance, gave $112 million to the XPRIZE Foundation, to honor researchers who remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and oceans. It gave $10 million to the University of Texas to study human population trends — a matter of concern to Musk, who has said he fears Earth’s population could collapse. That gift was first reported by Bloomberg.
But other grants landed close to Musk’s own interests.
The Musk Foundation, for instance, gave $5 million to a United Nations program that helps countries identify rural schools that need internet access. In at least two cases, those countries then became Musk’s customers, connecting their schools with his Starlink satellite service.
One of the biggest gifts helped one of SpaceX’s customers: Jared Isaacman, a Pennsylvania billionaire, who chartered a trip to orbit on a SpaceX rocket in 2021. Isaacman said the flight would raise $200 million for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital by raffling off one of the four seats on the flight. (Isaacman declined to say at the time how much he paid for the seats he reserved, except that he planned to raise far more for charity than he spent.)
But when Isaacman touched down on Earth, the mission’s Twitter account said it was still short of his $200 million goal.
“Count me in for $50M,” Musk tweeted back. The Musk Foundation eventually paid $55 million, its largest donation that year.
A few months later, Isaacman announced he would pay SpaceX for three more spaceflights. He declined to answer questions about the flights or Musk’s donation.
Experts on nonprofit law said there appeared to be nothing illegal about that gift, because it did not involve the Musk Foundation paying Musk or his customer directly.
But Kathleen Enright, the president of the Council on Foundations, said she would have advised Musk to recuse himself from this decision — and let the other members of the foundation’s board decide whether to give. She said that would ensure that Musk was not letting the needs of his business control the actions of his foundation, which is supposed to be an independent entity with its own charitable goals.
“It’s not his checkbook,” Enright said. “It’s not a private, family-owned company. It’s a charitable organization.”
Money for Texas
Starting in late 2020, Musk began to shift his business operations from California to Texas, and his charities followed.
The Ad Astra School, which had educated some SpaceX employees’ children, moved to a location near the company’s launch site in South Texas. At first, it seemed to be open to the public, according to an archived version of its website from last year.
But that website disappeared. And the Ad Astra campus was placed behind the security gates of a SpaceX-owned compound. At the campus today, there is no sign of a school, only a security guard in a pickup truck and signs that say “Private Property. No Trespassing.”
Musk has also given $100 million from his foundation to a startup Texas charity called “The Foundation,” which says it wants to start schools and eventually a university.
The donation moved money out of the Musk Foundation, helping it get closer to reaching that 5% minimum donation. But it did not move the money out of Musk’s orbit: The new charity is run by Birchall, the head of his family office, and two leaders at Musk’s accounting firm.
Land records show that the new charity used a shell company to purchase a 40-acre plot of land near Bastrop, Texas. The land is two minutes from a 110-home subdivision that one of Musk’s companies, a tunneling startup called The Boring Co., is building for its own workers. Online job postings indicate they are planning to open a new Ad Astra School there this summer. The new charity’s leaders declined to answer questions from the Times.
In South Texas, Musk also used his foundation to rebuild SpaceX’s reputation after the 2021 rocket explosion.
A few days before the blast, Musk had gone to the office of the top elected official in Cameron County, Eddie Treviño Jr., a Democrat, to complain. Musk felt the county, home to Space-X’s Boca Chica launch complex, was taking too long to approve permits and other requests.
Treviño recounted replying that SpaceX needed to do more to help the impoverished community. “I didn’t specifically say, ‘Give us X,’” meaning a specific amount of money, Treviño said. “But I said, ‘Help me raise this community.’”
But after the explosion, the donations Treviño had requested began to flow.
But the money didn’t come from SpaceX. Instead, it came from the Musk Foundation.
The foundation paid at least $18 million to local schools, which they used to buy everything from classroom laptops to pop-up planetariums to tools for teaching welding to adults. “Some of those adult learners are now working at SpaceX,” said Nereida “Nellie” Cantu, the top official in the Brownsville school district.
The foundation also paid to fix up Brownsville’s dusty downtown. The result was to provide more upscale restaurants — like Le Rêve, Brownsville’s first French bistro — at a time when Musk was trying to entice employees to move there.
Without any staff to handle the South Texas donations, Musk had deputized Igor Kurganov — a friend and former professional poker player who was never listed as an employee of the foundation — as a liaison. Kurganov often drilled local officials on the smallest details, like the color of the lights on a Christmas display paid for by the foundation: “‘Cool white’ strikes me as suboptimal.”
Kurganov, who left the Musk Foundation in 2022, did not respond to requests for comment. Brownsville’s mayor said that so far, Musk’s foundation has only given about $4.5 million of the $10 million he promised for downtown beautification in 2021.
But if Musk’s goal was to improve his company’s public image in Brownsville, the donations appear to have helped.
“He’s given to every organization that exists here in Brownsville, from our homeless shelters to the city of Brownsville to our school children — almost anything I can ever think of,” Jessica Tetreau, a member of the city commission, said in a video filmed outside Musk’s rocket launch headquarters.
A fresh mural in Brownsville’s downtown depicts the city’s old landmarks — the cathedral, the zoo, the Gulf of Mexico beach — alongside a new one: SpaceX’s rocket complex.
The name of the charity that helped pay for the mural is listed at the bottom left: The Musk Foundation.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Water; Private Financial Support; Science Education; Science Instruction; Counties

Subject: Students; Schools; Satellite dishes; Science education; Employees; Philanthropy; Charitable foundations; Gifts; Donations; Charities; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Gifts Donations

Location: Texas; New York; Uni ted States--US; Cameron County Texas

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

Identifier / keyword: Isaacman, Jared (1983 ); Walmart Stores Inc; Flint (Mich); Mathematics; Explosions (Accidental); Restaurants; Planets; Small Business; United States; Admissions Standards; Boca Chica; Tesla Motors Inc; Alternative And Renewable Energy; Private Spaceflight; Georgetown University; Relocation Of Business; Philanthropy; Disasters And Emergencies; Forbes Magazine; Barstool Sports Inc; Ebay Inc; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Nonprofit Organizations; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Murals; Gifts; Satellites; United Nations; Gates, Bill; Food And Drug Administration; Grants (Corporate And Foundation); Council On Foundations; Copeny, Mari; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Boards Of Directors; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Online Advertising; Customer Relations; X (Formerly Twitter); Pollution; Texas; Openai Labs; Wages And Salaries; Water Pollution; Pennsylvania; Michigan; Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Trespassing; Los Angeles (Calif); E Commerce; Local Government; Hawthorne (Calif); Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Urban Institute; Volunteers And Community Service; Democratic Party; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Education (K 12); Area Planning And Renewal; Stocks And Bonds; Earth; Income Inequality; Newspapers; Artificial Intelligence; Executive Compensation; Starlink Satellite Constellation (Spacex); Laptop Computers; Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Space And Astronomy; Rural Areas; Boring Company; Labor And Jobs; Mexico; Accounting And Accountants; Africa; Family Business; France; High Net Worth Individuals; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Rocket Science And Propulsion; Water; Poverty; World Food Program; Altruism; Gulf Of Mexico; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Science And Technology; Colleges And Universities; Brownsville (Tex); Start Ups; New York Times; Infrastructure (Public Works); University Of Texas At Austin; Southern States (Us)

Title: Elon Musk Has a Giant Charity. Its Money Stays Close to Home.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 10, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-10T17:33:17Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2954534900

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elon-musk-has-giant-charity-money-stays-close/docview/2954534900/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Musk Charity Keeps Money Close to Home: [National Desk]

Author: Fahrenthold, David A; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Fahrenthold, David A; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/musk-charity-keeps-money-close-home/docview/2954365732/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Before March 2021, Elon Musk's charitable foundation had never announced any donations to Cameron County, an impoverished region at the southern tip of Texas that is home to his SpaceX launch site and local officials who help regulate it.
Then, at 8:05 one morning that month, a SpaceX rocket blew up, showering the area with a rain of twisted metal.
The Musk Foundation began giving at 9:27 a.m. local time.
"Am donating $ 20M to Cameron County schools & $ 10M to City of Brownsville for downtown revitalization," Mr. Musk said on Twitter.
Mr. Musk, the world's second-richest person according to Forbes, presides over SpaceX, Tesla and other companies that are pushing the boundaries of technology, while also controlling a social media platform, now known as X, through which he promotes his often-polarizing political and social views.
At the same time, he runs a charity with billions of dollars, the kind of resources that could make a global impact. But unlike Bill Gates, who has deployed his fortune in an effort to improve health care across Africa, or Walmart's Walton family, which has spurred change in the American education system, Mr. Musk's philanthropy has been haphazard and largely self-serving -- making him eligible for enormous tax breaks and helping his businesses.
Since 2020, he has seeded his charity with tax-deductible donations of stock worth more than $ 7 billion at the time, making it one of the largest in the country.
The foundation that houses the money has failed in recent years to give away the bare minimum required by law to justify the tax break, exposing it to the risk of having to pay the government a substantial financial penalty.
Mr. Musk has not hired any staff for his foundation, tax filings show. Its billions are handled by a board that consists of himself and two volunteers, one of whom reports putting in so little time that it averages out to six minutes per week.
In 2022, the last year for which records are available, they gave away $ 160 million, which was $ 234 million less than the law required -- the fourth-largest shortfall of any foundation in the country.
Mr. Musk is under no obligation to have a charity, and he has made clear that he believes his for-profit enterprises will change the world for the better far more than any philanthropic venture could. But once he set up a nonprofit and filled it with tax-deductible gifts, he was required by law to ensure that his foundation served the public, and that it did not operate for the "private benefit" of its leader.
A New York Times analysis found that, of the Musk Foundation's giving in 2021 and 2022 -- the latest years for which full data is available -- about half of the donations had some link to Mr. Musk, one of his employees or one of his businesses.
Among the donations the Musk Foundation has made, there was $ 55 million to help a major SpaceX customer meet a charitable pledge. There were the millions that went to Cameron County, Texas, after the rocket blew up. And there were donations to two schools closely tied to his businesses: one walled off inside a SpaceX compound, the other located next to a new subdivision for Musk's employees.
"The really striking thing about Musk is the disjuncture between his outsized public persona, and his very, very minimal philanthropic presence," said Benjamin Soskis, who studies philanthropy at the Urban Institute. Where other billionaires have aimed for a broad impact on society, Mr. Soskis said Mr. Musk's foundation lacks "any direction or any real focus, outside his business ventures."
Mr. Musk did not respond to requests for comment.
A school for his children
Mr. Musk and his younger brother, Kimbal, started the Musk Foundation in 2001, a year before the sale of PayPal, the online payments company he co-founded, to eBay for $ 1.5 billion. He made more than $ 175 million in the sale, and would seed his namesake foundation with about $ 2 million worth of eBay shares.
The Musk Foundation's website initially included slick animations, featuring pictures of satellite dishes and children in classrooms, while encouraging people to apply for grants. By 2005, however, it was wiped clean, replaced by plain black text stating that the foundation was interested in "science education, pediatric health and clean energy."
It listed no contact information. It still does not.
By September 2014, Forbes estimated that Mr. Musk's net worth was more than $ 10 billion, driven up by the value of his holdings of Tesla stock. But he gave little to his own charity. That year, tax filings show, his foundation had $ 40,121 in the bank.
That fit with Mr. Musk's public stance on philanthropy. His for-profit companies, he said, were his way of changing the world.
"Tesla has done more to help the environment than all other companies combined," he said last year at The New York Times's DealBook conference. "As a leader of the company, I've done more for the environment than any single human on earth."
Mr. Musk, instead, used his small foundation to help groups tied to him personally, including a food charity run by his brother and a "Temple of Whollyness" that was set on fire at the 2013 Burning Man festival, an annual event that he often attends.
He also founded his own nonprofit school called Ad Astra -- Latin for "to the stars" -- to explore new ways to teach math and science.
But that school, too, would serve a personal purpose for Mr. Musk. In its first year of operation out of his home in the Bel-Air neighborhood of Los Angeles, five of Ad Astra's 14 students were his own children.
"Kindness and eagerness to learn (and parents that worked at SpaceX) were the only criteria for admission," wrote Joshua Dahn, the initial head of the school.
Ad Astra later moved to SpaceX's Hawthorne, Calif., headquarters and grew to more than 50 students. About half were related to SpaceX employees, Mr. Dahn said in an email. Mr. Dahn's contract even said that the intellectual property he developed at the school would be half owned by Mr. Musk personally, according to a copy obtained by The Times.
Two former SpaceX executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, recalled that Ad Astra was sometimes discussed as a perk for the children of executives, though it was understood to be near impossible for the offspring of rank-and-file employees to gain admission.
Mr. Musk made a $ 254 million gift of Tesla stock to his foundation in 2016, and its grants got bigger, but they still seemed to follow no coherent theme.
The Musk Foundation donated $ 10 million to OpenAI -- the groundbreaking artificial intelligence developer, where he sat on the board of directors. (OpenAI was a nonprofit at the time of the gift, though it has now spun out several for-profit companies.) Mr. Musk said in a recent lawsuit against the organization and its founders that he personally gave an additional $ 34 million before stopping his gifts in 2020. Mr. Musk previously said he had given about $ 100 million to OpenAI.
But Mr. Musk's giving often seemed guided by Twitter, where he made splashy promises in response to challenges from internet celebrities: He gave $ 1 million to plant trees after prompting from the YouTuber Mr. Beast and $ 1 million to help small businesses during the Covid-19 pandemic after a push from Dave Portnoy, the founder of Barstool Sports.
On July 5, 2018, he began interacting with Amariyanna "Mari" Copeny, a youth activist in Flint, Mich., who asked him for bicycles for local kids and clean water for her city, which was experiencing a crisis with its water supply. Less than a week later, Mr. Musk tweeted "a commitment" that he would "fund fixing the water in any house in Flint that has water contamination above FDA levels."
"Will organize a weekend in Flint to add filters to those houses with issues," he said in another tweet.
Karen Williams Weaver, a Democrat who was mayor of Flint at the time, said the city asked Mr. Musk to focus initially on helping schools. The Musk Foundation donated about $ 1 million to schools, paying to install water filters and buy laptops for students. It also gave $ 125,000 to a charity associated with Ms. Copeny that aimed to help Flint children.
Flint asked for much more.
It sent Mr. Musk a four-page letter, asking him to fund new water infrastructure and wide-scale pipe replacements in homes. It also asked Mr. Musk to open a research office or manufacturing facility in the city.
Few of those wishes came true. Tesla sent a corporate development executive, who offered rides around the city hall parking lot in a company vehicle, and Mr. Musk briefly considered placing a self-driving artificial intelligence facility in the city, according to communications obtained by The Times. He also visited Flint and Ms. Copeny's school.
But Tesla never opened an office there. And since mid-2019, the Musk Foundation has not listed any more gifts to Flint for home water filters or other causes.
Still, the mayor said she was grateful. "He didn't have to do anything," she said.
A big donation and a big tax break
At the end of 2021, Mr. Musk had a problem. He had exercised options from a stock bonus plan from Tesla that gave him about $ 25 billion worth of shares in the automaker. But that came with a price.
"I will pay over $ 11 billion in taxes this year," he later posted.
Tax law gives executives sitting on huge stores of their companies' stock a way to lower that bill: charity. Mr. Musk could donate shares of Tesla, whose stock price had boomed in recent years, to a nonprofit and take a tax deduction based on the value of the stock. It did not matter that he might have paid little to obtain the shares.
In October of that year, Mr. Musk had publicly flirted with the idea of a charitable mega-gift. On Twitter, he wrote that if the United Nations World Food Program could describe how it would spend the money, he would sell Tesla stock and give the program $ 6 billion.
The U.N. program replied with a plan, but Mr. Musk gave nothing. Instead, Mr. Musk gave to his own foundation: five million Tesla shares, worth $ 5.7 billion at the time.
The gift tripled the Musk Foundation's assets and put it among the 20 largest foundations in the country. Tax experts said it could have saved Mr. Musk more than $ 2 billion off his tax bill.
More donations from Mr. Musk meant more responsibility for his foundation. Tax law requires all foundations to give away 5 percent of their assets every year, so the Musk Foundation was expected to dole out hundreds of millions of dollars each year.
The foundation did not add paid staff to meet that new benchmark. The only recorded change was a tiny one: Matilda Simon, one of Mr. Musk's family-office employees, who also serves as one of the foundation's three volunteer board members, increased her workload from 0 hours to 0.1 hours, or six minutes a week, according to tax filings.
The foundation's two other volunteers -- Mr. Musk and Jared Birchall, who as head of Mr. Musk's family office helps manage his wealth -- reported that they each worked an hour a week. Ms. Simon and Mr. Birchall did not respond to a request for comment.
In 2021, the Musk Foundation fell $ 41 million short of the minimum required donation, tax filings show. In 2022, it missed the 5 percent mark by even more: $ 193 million. That year, Musk's foundation gave away only about 2.25 percent of its $ 7 billion in assets, far below the 5 percent minimum, tax filings show.
With shortfall piled on shortfall, the Musk Foundation was then left $ 234 million behind by the end of 2022, the fourth-largest gap of any foundation in the country, according to Cause IQ, a firm that analyzes charity data.
"It tells you it's not yet ready for prime time," said Brian Galle, a professor who studies nonprofit law at Georgetown University, referring to the minimal giveaways by the foundation. "It's not yet a professional organization."
The Musk Foundation has not released details of what it gave away in 2023, or whether it made up its shortfall from the year before. If it did not, it could owe a penalty tax equal to 30 percent of the remaining shortfall from 2022.
Some of the money that the Musk Foundation did give away during those years went to groups with no obvious connection to Mr. Musk's businesses.
The foundation, for instance, gave $ 112 million to the XPRIZE Foundation, to honor researchers who remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and oceans. It gave $ 10 million to the University of Texas to study human population trends -- a matter of concern to Mr. Musk, who has said he fears Earth's population could collapse.
But other grants landed close to Mr. Musk's own interests.
The Musk Foundation, for instance, gave $ 5 million to a United Nations program that helps countries identify rural schools that need internet access. In at least two cases, those countries then became Mr. Musk's customers, connecting their schools with his Starlink satellite service.
One of the biggest gifts helped one of SpaceX's customers: Jared Isaacman, a Pennsylvania billionaire, who chartered a trip to orbit on a SpaceX rocket in 2021. Mr. Isaacman said the flight would raise $ 200 million for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital by raffling off one of the four seats on the flight. (Mr. Isaacman declined to say at the time how much he paid for the seats he reserved except that he planned to raise far more for charity than he spent.)
But when Mr. Isaacman touched down on Earth, the mission's Twitter account said it was still short of his $ 200 million goal.
"Count me in for $ 50M," Mr. Musk tweeted back. The Musk Foundation eventually paid $ 55 million, its largest donation that year.
A few months later, Mr. Isaacman announced he would pay SpaceX for three more spaceflights. He declined to answer questions about the flights or Mr. Musk's donation.
Experts on nonprofit law said there appeared to be nothing illegal about that gift, because it did not involve the Musk Foundation paying Mr. Musk or his customer directly.
But Kathleen Enright, the president of the Council on Foundations, said she would have advised Mr. Musk to recuse himself from this decision -- and let the other members of the foundation's board decide whether to give. She said that would ensure that Mr. Musk was not letting the needs of his business control the actions of his foundation, which is supposed to be an independent entity with its own charitable goals.
"It's not his checkbook," Ms. Enright said. "It's not a private, family-owned company. It's a charitable organization."
Money for Texas
Starting in late 2020, Mr. Musk began to shift his business operations from California to Texas, and his charities followed.
The Ad Astra School, which had educated some SpaceX employees' children, moved to a location near the company's launch site in South Texas. At first, it seemed to be open to the public, according to an archived version of its website from last year.
But that website disappeared. And the Ad Astra campus was placed behind the security gates of a SpaceX-owned compound. At the campus today, there is no sign of a school, only a security guard in a pickup truck and signs that say "Private Property. No Trespassing."
Mr. Musk has also given $ 100 million from his foundation to a startup Texas charity called "The Foundation," which says it wants to start schools and eventually a university.
The donation moved money out of the Musk Foundation, helping it get closer to reaching that 5 percent minimum donation. But it did not move the money out of Mr. Musk's orbit: the new charity is run by Mr. Birchall, the head of his family office, and two leaders at Mr. Musk's accounting firm.
Land records show that the new charity used a shell company to purchase a 40-acre plot of land near Bastrop, Texas. The land is two minutes from a 110-home subdivision that one of Mr. Musk's companies, a tunneling startup called The Boring Company, is building for its own workers. Online job postings indicate they are planning to open a new Ad Astra School there this summer. The new charity's leaders declined to answer questions from The Times.
In South Texas, Mr. Musk also used his foundation to rebuild SpaceX's reputation after the 2021 rocket explosion.
A few days before the blast, Mr. Musk had gone to the office of the top elected official in Cameron County, Eddie Treviño Jr., a Democrat, to complain. Mr. Musk felt the county, home to SpaceX's Boca Chica launch complex, was taking too long to approve permits and other requests.
Mr. Treviño recounted replying that SpaceX needed to do more to help the impoverished community. "I didn't specifically say 'Give us X,"' meaning a specific amount of money, Mr. Treviño said. "But I said, 'Help me raise this community."'
But after the explosion, the donations Mr. Treviño had requested began to flow.
But the money didn't come from SpaceX. Instead, it came from the Musk Foundation.
The foundation paid local schools at least $ 18 million, which they used to buy everything from classroom laptops to pop-up planetariums to tools for teaching welding to adults. "Some of those adult learners are now working at SpaceX," said Nereida "Nellie" Cantu, the top official in the Brownsville school district.
The foundation also paid to fix up Brownsville's dusty downtown. The result was to provide more upscale restaurants -- like Le Rêve, Brownsville's first French bistro -- at a time when Mr. Musk was trying to entice employees to move there.
Without any staff to handle the South Texas donations, Mr. Musk deputized Igor Kurganov -- a friend and former professional poker player who was never listed as an employee of the foundation -- as a liaison. Mr. Kurganov often drilled local officials on the smallest details, like the color of the lights on a Christmas display paid for by the foundation: "'cool white' strikes me as suboptimal."
Mr. Kurganov, who left the Musk Foundation in 2022, did not respond to requests for comment. Brownsville's mayor said that, so far, Mr. Musk's foundation has only given about $ 4.5 million of the $ 10 million he promised in 2021 for downtown beautification.
But if Mr. Musk's goal was to improve his company's public image in Brownsville, the donations appear to have helped.
"He's given to every organization that exists here in Brownsville, from our homeless shelters to the city of Brownsville to our school children -- almost anything I can ever think of," Jessica Tetreau, a member of the city commission, said in a video filmed outside Mr. Musk's rocket launch headquarters.
A fresh mural in Brownsville's downtown depicts the city's old landmarks -- the cathedral, the zoo, the Gulf of Mexico beach -- alongside a new one: SpaceX's rocket complex.
The name of the charity that helped pay for the mural is listed at the bottom left: The Musk Foundation.
Photograph A mural in Brownsville, Texas, a city near SpaceX's launch site and the recipient of millions of dollars from the Musk Foundation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Above right, a SpaceX starship in Boca Chica, Texas. Following a 2021 explosion, Elon Musk, above left, began showering the community with donations from his charitable organization, including laptops and pop-up planetariums for local schools like Hudson Elementary in Brownsville, top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIR HAMJA/THE NEW YORK TIMES; MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The billionaire Jared Isaacman chartered a SpaceX flight in September 2021, and later his pledge to donate $ 200 million to St. Jude's received a $ 55 million boost from the Musk Foundation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES); Mr. Musk tweeted this "commitment" less than a week after he began interacting with a 9-year-old activist in the city. (A14); The Rocket Bar, above, was one of the Brownsville establishments to receive money from the Musk Foundation. Below, Eduardo Muñiz, 18, practicing welding in a high school classroom that administrators said uses tools funded by the foundation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14, A15.

ERIC Subject: Water; Science Education; Counties; Private Financial Support; Artificial Intelligence; Science Instruction

Subject: Students; Artificial intelligence; Schools; Satellite dishes; Science education; Employees; Philanthropy; Charitable foundations; Gifts; Donations; Charities; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Employees Gifts Donations

Location: Texas; New York; United States--US; Cameron County Texas

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/10/us/elon-musk-charity.html

Title: Musk Charity Keeps Money Close to Home:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 10, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2954365732

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/musk-charity-keeps-money-close-home/docview/2954365732/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Coll ection

____________________________________________________________

Elon Musk Has a Giant Charity. Its Money Stays Close to Home.

Author: Fahrenthold, David A; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Fahrenthold, David A; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elon-musk-has-giant-charity-money-stays-close/docview/2954326667/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BOCA CHICA, Texas — Before March 2021, Elon Musk’s charitable foundation had never announced any donations to Cameron County, an impoverished region at the southern tip of Texas that is home to his SpaceX launch site and local officials who help regulate it.
Then, at 8:05 one morning that month, a SpaceX rocket blew up, showering the area with a rain of twisted metal.
The Musk Foundation began giving at 9:27 a.m. local time.
“Am donating $20M to Cameron County schools & $10M to City of Brownsville for downtown revitalization,” Musk said on Twitter.
Musk, the world’s second-richest person, according to Forbes, presides over SpaceX, Tesla and other companies that are pushing the boundaries of technology, while also controlling a social media platform, now known as X, formerly Twitter, through which he promotes his often-polarizing political and social views.
At the same time, he runs a charity with billions of dollars, the kind of resources that could make a global impact. But unlike Bill Gates, who has deployed his fortune in an effort to improve health care across Africa, or Walmart’s Walton family, which has spurred change in the American education system, Musk’s philanthropy has been haphazard and largely self-serving — making him eligible for enormous tax breaks and helping his businesses.
Since 2020, he has seeded his charity with tax-deductible donations of stock worth more than $7 billion at the time, making it one of the largest in the country.
The foundation that houses the money has failed in recent years to give away the bare minimum required by law to justify the tax break, exposing it to the risk of having to pay the government a substantial financial penalty.
Musk has not hired any staff for his foundation, tax filings show. Its billions are handled by a board that consists of himself and two volunteers, one of whom reports putting in so little time that it averages out to six minutes per week.
In 2022, the last year for which records are available, they gave away $160 million, which was $234 million less than the law required — the fourth-largest shortfall of any foundation in the country.
Musk is under no obligation to have a charity, and he has made clear that he believes his for-profit enterprises will change the world for the better far more than any philanthropic venture could. But once he set up a nonprofit and filled it with tax-deductible gifts, he was required by law to ensure his foundation served the public and did not operate for the “private benefit” of its leader.
A New York Times analysis found that, of the Musk Foundation’s giving in 2021 and 2022 — the latest years for which full data is available — about half of the donations had some link to Musk, one of his employees or one of his businesses.
Among the donations the Musk Foundation has made, there was $55 million to help a major SpaceX customer meet a charitable pledge. There were the millions that went to Cameron County, Texas, after the rocket blew up. And there were donations to two schools closely tied to his businesses: one walled off inside a SpaceX compound, the other located next to a new subdivision for Musk’s employees.
“The really striking thing about Musk is the disjuncture between his outsized public persona, and his very, very minimal philanthropic presence,” said Benjamin Soskis, who studies philanthropy at the Urban Institute. Where other billionaires have aimed for a broad impact on society, Soskis said Musk’s foundation lacks “any direction or any real focus, outside his business ventures.”
Musk did not respond to requests for comment.
A School for His Children
Musk and his younger brother, Kimbal, started the Musk Foundation in 2001, a year before the sale of PayPal, the online payments company he co-founded, to eBay for $1.5 billion. He made more than $175 million in the sale and would seed his namesake foundation with about $2 million worth of eBay shares.
The Musk Foundation’s website initially included slick animations, featuring pictures of satellite dishes and children in classrooms, while encouraging people to apply for grants. By 2005, however, it was wiped clean, replaced by plain black text stating that the foundation was interested in “science education, pediatric health and clean energy.”
It listed no contact information. It still does not.
By September 2014, Forbes estimated that Musk’s net worth was more than $10 billion, driven up by the value of his holdings of Tesla stock. But he gave little to his own charity. That year, tax filings show, his foundation had $40,121 in the bank.
That fit with Musk’s public stance on philanthropy. His for-profit companies, he said, were his way of changing the world.
“Tesla has done more to help the environment than all other companies combined,” he said last year at The New York Times’ DealBook conference. “As a leader of the company, I’ve done more for the environment than any single human on earth.”
Musk, instead, used his small foundation to help groups tied to him personally, including a food charity run by his brother and a “Temple of Whollyness” that was set on fire at the 2013 Burning Man festival, an annual event that he often attends.
He also founded his own nonprofit school called Ad Astra — Latin for “to the stars” — to explore new ways to teach math and science.
But that school, too, would serve a personal purpose for Musk. In its first year of operation out of his home in the Bel-Air neighborhood of Los Angeles, five of Ad Astra’s 14 students were his own children.
“Kindness and eagerness to learn (and parents that worked at SpaceX) were the only criteria for admission,” wrote Joshua Dahn, the initial head of the school.
Ad Astra later moved to SpaceX’s Hawthorne, California, headquarters and grew to more than 50 students. About half were related to SpaceX employees, Dahn said in an email. Dahn’s contract even said that the intellectual property he developed at the school would be half owned by Musk personally, according to a copy obtained by the Times.
Two former SpaceX executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, recalled that Ad Astra was sometimes discussed as a perk for the children of executives, although it was understood to be nearly impossible for the offspring of rank-and-file employees to gain admission.
Musk made a $254 million gift of Tesla stock to his foundation in 2016, and its grants got bigger, but they still seemed to follow no coherent theme.
The Musk Foundation donated $10 million to OpenAI — the groundbreaking artificial intelligence developer, where he sat on the board of directors. (OpenAI was a nonprofit at the time of the gift, although it has now spun out several for-profit companies.) Musk said in a recent lawsuit against the organization and its founders that he personally gave an additional $34 million before stopping his gifts in 2020. Musk previously said he had given about $100 million to OpenAI.
But Musk’s giving often seemed guided by Twitter, where he made splashy promises in response to challenges from internet celebrities: He gave $1 million to plant trees after prompting from YouTuber Mr. Beast and $1 million to help small businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic after a push from Dave Portnoy, the founder of Barstool Sports.
On July 5, 2018, he began interacting with Amariyanna “Mari” Copeny, a youth activist in Flint, Michigan, who asked him for bicycles for local kids and clean water for her city, which was experiencing a crisis with its water supply. Less than a week later, Musk tweeted “a commitment” that he would “fund fixing the water in any house in Flint that has water contamination above FDA levels.”
“Will organize a weekend in Flint to add filters to those houses with issues,” he said in another tweet.
Karen Williams Weaver, a Democrat who was mayor of Flint at the time, said the city asked Musk to focus initially on helping schools. The Musk Foundation donated about $1 million to schools, paying to install water filters and buy laptops for students. It also gave $125,000 to a charity associated with Copeny that aimed to help Flint children.
Flint asked for much more.
It sent Musk a four-page letter, asking him to fund new water infrastructure and wide-scale pipe replacements in homes. It also asked Musk to open a research office or manufacturing facility in the city.
Few of those wishes came true. Tesla sent a corporate development executive, who offered rides around the City Hall parking lot in a company vehicle, and Musk briefly considered placing a self-driving AI facility in the city, according to communications obtained by the Times. He also visited Flint and Copeny’s school.
But Tesla never opened an office there. And since mid-2019, the Musk Foundation has not listed any more gifts to Flint for home water filters or other causes.
Still, the mayor said she was grateful. “He didn’t have to do anything,” she said.
Big Gift and Big Break
At the end of 2021, Musk had a problem. He had exercised options from a stock bonus plan from Tesla that gave him about $25 billion worth of shares in the automaker. But that came with a price.
“I will pay over $11 billion in taxes this year,” he later posted.
Tax law gives executives sitting on huge stores of their companies’ stock a way to lower that bill: charity. Musk could donate shares of Tesla, whose stock price had boomed in recent years, to a nonprofit and take a tax deduction based on the value of the stock. It did not matter that he might have paid little to obtain the shares.
In October of that year, Musk had publicly flirted with the idea of a charitable mega-gift. On Twitter, he wrote that if the United Nations World Food Program could describe how it would spend the money, he would sell Tesla stock and give the program $6 billion.
The U.N. program replied with a plan, but Musk gave nothing. Instead, Musk gave to his own foundation: 5 million Tesla shares, worth $5.7 billion at the time.
The gift tripled the Musk Foundation’s assets and put it among the 20 largest foundations in the country. Tax experts said it could have saved Musk more than $2 billion off his tax bill.
More donations from Musk meant more responsibility for his foundation. Tax law requires all foundations to give away 5% of their assets every year, so the Musk Foundation was expected to dole out hundreds of millions of dollars each year.
The foundation did not add paid staff to meet that new bench mark. The only recorded change was a tiny one: Matilda Simon, one of Musk’s family-office employees, who also serves as one of the foundation’s three volunteer board members, increased her workload from 0 hours to 0.1 hours, or six minutes a week, according to tax filings.
The foundation’s two other volunteers — Musk and Jared Birchall, who as head of Musk’s family office helps manage his wealth — reported that they each worked an hour a week. Simon and Birchall did not respond to a request for comment.
In 2021, the Musk Foundation fell $41 million short of the minimum required donation, tax filings show. In 2022, it missed the 5% mark by even more: $193 million. That year, Musk’s foundation gave away only about 2.25% of its $7 billion in assets, far below the 5% minimum, tax filings show.
With shortfall piled on shortfall, the Musk Foundation was then left $234 million behind by the end of 2022, the fourth-largest gap of any foundation in the country, according to Cause IQ, a firm that analyzes charity data.
“It tells you it’s not yet ready for prime time,” said Brian Galle, a professor who studies nonprofit law at Georgetown University, referring to the minimal giveaways by the foundation. “It’s not yet a professional organization.”
The Musk Foundation has not released details of what it gave away in 2023 or whether it made up its shortfall from the year before. If it did not, it could owe a penalty tax equal to 30% of the remaining shortfall from 2022.
Some of the money that the Musk Foundation did give away during those years went to groups with no obvious connection to Musk’s businesses.
The foundation, for instance, gave $112 million to the XPRIZE Foundation, to honor researchers who remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and oceans. It gave $10 million to the University of Texas to study human population trends — a matter of concern to Musk, who has said he fears Earth’s population could collapse.
But other grants landed close to Musk’s own interests.
The Musk Foundation, for instance, gave $5 million to a United Nations program that helps countries identify rural schools that need internet access. In at least two cases, those countries then became Musk’s customers, connecting their schools with his Starlink satellite service.
One of the biggest gifts helped one of SpaceX’s customers: Jared Isaacman, a Pennsylvania billionaire, who chartered a trip to orbit on a SpaceX rocket in 2021. Isaacman said the flight would raise $200 million for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital by raffling off one of the four seats on the flight. (Isaacman declined to say at the time how much he paid for the seats he reserved, except that he planned to raise far more for charity than he spent.)
But when Isaacman touched down on Earth, the mission’s Twitter account said it was still short of his $200 million goal.
“Count me in for $50M,” Musk tweeted back. The Musk Foundation eventually paid $55 million, its largest donation that year.
A few months later, Isaacman announced he would pay SpaceX for three more spaceflights. He declined to answer questions about the flights or Musk’s donation.
Experts on nonprofit law said there appeared to be nothing illegal about that gift, because it did not involve the Musk Foundation paying Musk or his customer directly.
But Kathleen Enright, the president of the Council on Foundations, said she would have advised Musk to recuse himself from this decision — and let the other members of the foundation’s board decide whether to give. She said that would ensure that Musk was not letting the needs of his business control the actions of his foundation, which is supposed to be an independent entity with its own charitable goals.
“It’s not his checkbook,” Enright said. “It’s not a private, family-owned company. It’s a charitable organization.”
Money for Texas
Starting in late 2020, Musk began to shift his business operations from California to Texas, and his charities followed.
The Ad Astra School, which had educated some SpaceX employees’ children, moved to a location near the company’s launch site in South Texas. At first, it seemed to be open to the public, according to an archived version of its website from last year.
But that website disappeared. And the Ad Astra campus was placed behind the security gates of a SpaceX-owned compound. At the campus today, there is no sign of a school, only a security guard in a pickup truck and signs that say “Private Property. No Trespassing.”
Musk has also given $100 million from his foundation to a startup Texas charity called “The Foundation,” which says it wants to start schools and eventually a university.
The donation moved money out of the Musk Foundation, helping it get closer to reaching that 5% minimum donation. But it did not move the money out of Musk’s orbit: The new charity is run by Birchall, the head of his family office, and two leaders at Musk’s accounting firm.
Land records show that the new charity used a shell company to purchase a 40-acre plot of land near Bastrop, Texas. The land is two minutes from a 110-home subdivision that one of Musk’s companies, a tunneling startup called The Boring Co., is building for its own workers. Online job postings indicate they are planning to open a new Ad Astra School there this summer. The new charity’s leaders declined to answer questions from the Times.
In South Texas, Musk also used his foundation to rebuild SpaceX’s reputation after the 2021 rocket explosion.
A few days before the blast, Musk had gone to the office of the top elected official in Cameron County, Eddie Treviño Jr., a Democrat, to complain. Musk felt the county, home to Space-X’s Boca Chica launch complex, was taking too long to approve permits and other requests.
Treviño recounted replying that SpaceX needed to do more to help the impoverished community. “I didn’t specifically say, ‘Give us X,’” meaning a specific amount of money, Treviño said. “But I said, ‘Help me raise this community.’”
But after the explosion, the donations Treviño had requested began to flow.
But the money didn’t come from SpaceX. Instead, it came from the Musk Foundation.
The foundation paid at least $18 million to local schools, which they used to buy everything from classroom laptops to pop-up planetariums to tools for teaching welding to adults. “Some of those adult learners are now working at SpaceX,” said Nereida “Nellie” Cantu, the top official in the Brownsville school district.
The foundation also paid to fix up Brownsville’s dusty downtown. The result was to provide more upscale restaurants — like Le Rêve, Brownsville’s first French bistro — at a time when Musk was trying to entice employees to move there.
Without any staff to handle the South Texas donations, Musk had deputized Igor Kurganov — a friend and former professional poker player who was never listed as an employee of the foundation — as a liaison. Kurganov often drilled local officials on the smallest details, like the color of the lights on a Christmas display paid for by the foundation: “‘Cool white’ strikes me as suboptimal.”
Kurganov, who left the Musk Foundation in 2022, did not respond to requests for comment. Brownsville’s mayor said that so far, Musk’s foundation has only given about $4.5 million of the $10 million he promised for downtown beautification in 2021.
But if Musk’s goal was to improve his company’s public image in Brownsville, the donations appear to have helped.
“He’s given to every organization that exists here in Brownsville, from our homeless shelters to the city of Brownsville to our school children — almost anything I can ever think of,” Jessica Tetreau, a member of the city commission, said in a video filmed outside Musk’s rocket launch headquarters.
A fresh mural in Brownsville’s downtown depicts the city’s old landmarks — the cathedral, the zoo, the Gulf of Mexico beach — alongside a new one: SpaceX’s rocket complex.
The name of the charity that helped pay for the mural is listed at the bottom left: The Musk Foundation.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Water; Private Financial Support; Science Education; Science Instruction; Counties

Subject: Students; Schools; Satellite dishes; Science education; Employees; Philanthropy; Charitable foundations; Gifts; Donations; Charities; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Gifts Donations

Location: Texas; New York; Uni ted States--US; Cameron County Texas

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

Identifier / keyword: Isaacman, Jared (1983 ); Walmart Stores Inc; Flint (Mich); Mathematics; Explosions (Accidental); Restaurants; Planets; Small Business; United States; Admissions Standards; Boca Chica; Tesla Motors Inc; Alternative And Renewable Energy; Private Spaceflight; Georgetown University; Relocation Of Business; Philanthropy; Disasters And Emergencies; Forbes Magazine; Barstool Sports Inc; Ebay Inc; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Nonprofit Organizations; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Murals; Gifts; Satellites; United Nations; Gates, Bill; Food And Drug Administration; Grants (Corporate And Foundation); Council On Foundations; Copeny, Mari; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Boards Of Directors; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Online Advertising; Customer Relations; X (Formerly Twitter); Pollution; Texas; Openai Labs; Wages And Salaries; Water Pollution; Pennsylvania; Michigan; Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Trespassing; Los Angeles (Calif); E Commerce; Local Government; Hawthorne (Calif); Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Urban Institute; Volunteers And Community Service; Democratic Party; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Education (K 12); Area Planning And Renewal; Stocks And Bonds; Earth; Income Inequality; Newspapers; Artificial Intelligence; Executive Compensation; Starlink Satellite Constellation (Spacex); Laptop Computers; Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Space And Astronomy; Rural Areas; Boring Company; Labor And Jobs; Mexico; Accounting And Accountants; Africa; Family Business; France; High Net Worth Individuals; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Rocket Science And Propulsion; Water; Poverty; World Food Program; Altruism; Gulf Of Mexico; Tax Credits, Deductions And Exemptions; Science And Technology; Colleges And Universities; Brownsville (Tex); Start Ups; New York Times; Infrastructure (Public Works); University Of Texas At Austin; Southern States (Us)

Title: Elon Musk Has a Giant Charity. Its Money Stays Close to Home.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 9, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-09T22:05:43Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2954326667

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/elon-musk-has-giant-charity-money-stays-close/docview/2954326667/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pay Attention: The Devil Is in the Details: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Tara Siegel Bernard

Publication info: Tara Siegel Bernard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pay-attention-devil-is-details/docview/2933854868/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: There are tax breaks for electric car purchases, SALT workarounds, benefits for retirees and a new system for eligible taxpayers to file their returns.
Filing your tax return serves as an annual reminder of just how tediously complex the American tax code is -- and this year is no exception.
It's not as messy as the pandemic years, but there are plenty of new provisions taking effect, and some changes could potentially land midseason.
Procrastination may cost you: Interest on unpaid taxes and late penalties (yes, even penalties accrue interest) have more than doubled to 8 percent from just a couple years ago.
Here are some of the latest changes to keep in mind as the filing deadline -- April 15, or April 17 for Maine and Massachusetts residents -- approaches.
Can I file my return using the Internal Revenue Service's new -- and free -- service?
Starting in mid-March, certain residents in a dozen states are expected to have the option to electronically file their returns using the I.R.S.'s Direct File program. The system, which is in a limited pilot, is slowly rolling out in phases, and will be accessible only to taxpayers with relatively simple tax situations.
To be eligible, taxpayers must have income limited to wages reported on Form W-2, Social Security or unemployment, as well as interest income of $ 1,500 or less. They must also claim the standard deduction (and not itemize their deductions).
Filers must also live in one of the 12 states participating in the pilot. Eight of those states don't have a state income tax (Florida, New Hampshire, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington and Wyoming) and four do (Arizona, California, Massachusetts, and New York). The tool doesn't provide state-tax returns yet, but guides taxpayers to a state-supported tool that can be used to prepare and file state tax returns.
For more details, check out my colleague Ann Carrns' story.
I bought a new electric car. Am I eligible for any tax benefits?
Maybe. People who bought a new electric vehicle may again qualify for a tax credit of up to $ 7,500 in 2023 (and through 2032), but the eligibility rules have tightened: Your income and the car price must fall below a certain ceiling, and the vehicle itself must check a series of boxes.
To start, single tax filers must have modified adjusted gross income of $ 150,000 or less; and married joint filers must have earned $ 300,000 or less; and $ 225,000 for heads of households. (You can use your income from the year you get the car or the year earlier, whichever is lower.)
The vehicle's manufacturer suggested retail price can't exceed $ 80,000 for vans, sports utility vehicles and pickup trucks, and $ 55,000 for all other vehicles. There are plenty of finer details -- the vehicles must have had their final assembly in North America, for example, and they must have certain battery components. You can visit the U.S. Department of Energys's site to see whether your vehicle qualifies.
Your exact credit amount will vary based on when you received the car and whether it meets certain criteria. The credit is nonrefundable, which means you can't get back more money than you owe in taxes and you can't apply any excess to future tax bills.
Starting this year, buyers of new cars can transfer the credit to the dealership for an upfront discount rather than waiting to get the money during the 2025 tax filing season.
"They will, in theory, give you a reduction in the purchase price," said Mark Luscombe, principal federal tax analyst for Wolters Kluwer, an information services firm.
What about used cars?
Starting this year, if you bought a qualified used electric vehicle from a licensed dealer for $ 25,000 or less, you may be eligible for a nonrefundable credit equal to 30 percent -- up to $ 4,000 -- of the sale price.
I made my home more energy efficient. Are there any new tax breaks to offset some of the costs?
Yes. Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, tax breaks in these categories became more generous and now cover more expenses -- and some taxpayers may become eligible again even if they used up their previous credits in the past.
Starting in the tax year 2023, the energy-efficient home improvement credit lets taxpayers claim as much as $ 1,200 each year -- up from a $ 500 lifetime maximum -- for certain improvements made through 2032, including items like exterior doors, windows and insulation materials. Additionally, there's another credit worth up to $ 2,000 annually for various new water heaters, heat pumps and boilers.
The residential clean energy property credit -- for items like solar panels, solar water heaters or wind turbines -- is also available again. From 2022 to 2032, the credit is 30 percent of qualified costs (then it's later reduced to lower amounts).
The child credit could change midseason. Does that mean I should wait to file my taxes?
Nope. The House passed a bipartisan bill that would temporarily expand the child tax credit, which, if enacted, would largely benefit lower-income families, particularly those with multiple children. But it must first clear the Senate, where it faces challenges. Whatever happens, taxpayers shouldn't put off filing -- the I.R.S. would be able to pay any refunds due retroactively.
"No amended return would be needed," said Julie Welch, director of taxation at Meara Welch Browne, P.C., in Kansas City, Mo.
The existing child tax credit is worth up to $ 2,000 for each qualifying dependent under 17, but it is reduced for married filers once their income exceeds $ 400,000, or $ 200,000 for singles and heads of household. (The I.R.S.'s Interactive Tax Assistant can help determine eligibility.)
But a portion of that credit -- up to $ 1,600 -- is refundable: That means after the credit reduces taxes owed, dollar for dollar, any remaining credit is paid in the form of a refund.
Inflation stung. Did the I.R.S. make any changes to mitigate this?
Indeed. The I.R.S. raised the outer limits of the federal tax brackets, or the income thresholds at which a higher tax rate applies, by about 7 percent to account for high inflation. Without the adjustments, people who received raises would have had more of their income taxed at higher rates, even if their income was simply keeping pace with higher prices.
For the 2023 tax year, for example, the 24 percent tax bracket kicks in on income over $ 95,375 for single taxpayers and $ 190,751 for married joint filers, with similar changes in other tax brackets. The standard deduction for single filers rose to $ 13,850 for 2023, up $ 900; for married people filing jointly, it rose to $ 27,700, up $ 1,800; it increased to $ 20,800 for heads of household.
The amount people could have saved in 401(k) plans in 2023 rose to $ 22,500, up from $ 20,500 in 2022. But qualifying taxpayers have until they file their returns to max out 2023 savings in their I.R.A.s. The total contributions can't be more than $ 6,500, or $ 7,500 for those 50 and older.
For the 2024 tax year (returns filed in 2025) these levels moved up again.
I use Venmo for my side hustle. Is the I.R.S. tracking more of those earnings this year?
Not yet.
Freelancers, gig workers, small businesses -- or anyone with a side job -- have always been obligated to track and report income to the I.R.S. when their profits exceed $ 400. But to increase compliance, online processors and marketplaces -- like Venmo, PayPal, eBay or Airbnb -- were supposed to record and report more of this sales activity in 2023. That would be documented on I.R.S. Form 1099-K, which would be sent to both the I.R.S. and the taxpayer.
People who collect income through these online payment processors or marketplaces were supposed to receive these tax forms for all payments exceeding $ 600, but that requirement has been pushed back by the I.R.S. for a second consecutive year.
For this tax season, the old rules still apply: 1099-Ks will be required to be issued to people selling goods or services only once their activity exceeds 200 transactions and $ 20,000 in aggregate payments annually.
For the 2024 tax year, the I.R.S. said it planned to lower that threshold to $ 5,000 in aggregate payments annually, with no transaction minimums, before it eventually lowers it to its permanent level of $ 600 in total payments. But some people may still receive the forms for amounts above the lower thresholds anyway.
Ultimately, the I.R.S. decided it needed more time to work out the kinks that might arise when you send out millions of new forms to people who might not be expecting them -- or not even owe any tax.
The agency is working on ways to ensure the Form 1099-Ks are only issued to those who should receive them.
The state and local tax (SALT) tax break was capped, but I heard there is a workaround. Am I eligible?
Many taxpayers in high-tax states sorely miss the more generous version of the SALT tax break, which let them deduct all income, property and sales taxes paid to state and local governments without limitation.
That all changed in late 2017, when the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act put a $ 10,000 cap on the SALT deduction through 2025. Residents grumbled, and before too long more than 30 states came up with workarounds.
Though state strategies vary greatly, the gist is this: Under federal tax rules, the SALT ceiling applies to individual taxpayers, but not businesses structured as pass-through entities -- say, a construction company, or a small law firm -- according to tax professionals. So if the pass-through entity -- usually S Corporations or partnerships -- pays the tax, then the individual owners can deduct the entity's taxes on their personal tax returns, instead of their own state and local taxes.
"However, these workarounds are not available in all states, and their effectiveness can vary depending on the specific situation," said Mark Friedlich, vice president of government affairs at Wolters Kluwer.
It's also complicated -- and the rules and deadlines to opt into this tax vary across states, which is why its necessary to work with a pro who is well-versed in the rules.
I waded into crypto. What do I need to know?
When anyone sells stocks, bonds or other investments, they're required to report any profits (capital gains) or losses on their tax returns, as well as any interest or dividends earned. To make that easier, your brokerage firm is required to prepare tax forms -- including the 1099-B and 1099-DIV -- that help track these items, which are reported to the I.R.S.
Brokerage firms haven't been required to report transactions on cryptocurrency and other digital assets, though that may soon change: A rule proposed last year would require them to send a new form -- called a 1099-DA, for digital assets -- starting for the tax year 2025.
But that doesn't let taxpayers off the hook for tax year 2023 (or any year).
"Regardless of whether someone gets a tax form, it is their responsibility to report all of their income," said Eric Bronnenkant, head of tax at Betterment, an investment firm. You can find more information on how that's done inside the 1040 instructions as well as the Taxpayer Advocate Service and I.R.S. websites.
If you bought or sold cryptocurrency held in a traditional investment wrappers -- like Bitcoin E.T.F., for example -- those transactions are still tracked on the existing 1099-B, just like any other exchange-traded fund or stock.
Are there any changes for retirees (or those nearing retirement)?
A law that took effect last year lets retirees delay making required minimum withdrawals from tax advantaged retirement accounts until the year a person turns 73, up from 72 in 2022.
In practice, that means if you turned 72 in 2023, you can delay your first required withdrawal (for 2024) another year, or until April 1, 2025, said David Oh, head of tax and estate planning at Arta Finance.
But if you turned 73 in 2023 (and were 72 in 2022), you're subject to the older rules -- and have a deadline approaching: Your next required withdrawal must be taken by April 1, 2024.
These rules apply to traditional I.R.A.s, SEP I.R.A.s and SIMPLE I.R.A.s. People with 401(k)s can put off withdrawals until after they retire, while Roth I.R.A.s aren't subject to them until after the account owner dies.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Fines & penalties; Taxes; Tax rates; Cost control; Tax returns; Water heaters; Tax cuts; Electric vehicles; Child tax credit; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Taxes Tax rates Cost control Tax returns Tax cuts Child tax credit Automobile dealers

Location: United States--US; Massachusetts

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/02/business/tax-breaks-2024.html

Title: Pay Attention: The Devil Is in the Details:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 3, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2933854868

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pay-attention-devil-is-details/docview/2933854868/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How to Keep Streaming As Costs Rise: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-keep-streaming-as-costs-rise/docview/2932768794/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Canceling is simple. The tough part is remembering to do it.
The dream of streaming -- watch what you want, whenever you want, for a sliver of the price of cable! -- is coming to an end.
With all the price increases for video streaming apps like Amazon Prime Video, Netflix and Hulu, the average household that subscribes to four streaming apps may now end up paying just as much as a cable subscriber, according to research by Deloitte.
To name a few of the price jumps for streaming video (without ads) in just over the past year: Amazon's ad-free Prime Video is now $ 12 a month, up from $ 9; Netflix raised the price of its premium plan for watching content on four devices to $ 23 a month, from $ 20; Disney increased the price of its Hulu service to $ 18 a month, from $ 15; and HBO's Max now costs $ 16 a month, up from $ 15.
If, like many people, you subscribe to all those services, you are paying about $ 70 a month, roughly the same as a modest cable TV package.
More changes on the horizon will have people paying more for streaming. Disney announced this month that it would crack down on password sharing for Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+. Netflix told shareholders last month to expect more price increases.
Streaming services still offer more flexibility and potential to save than a cable bundle. If that's what drew you to streaming, the solution may seem obvious: You could be more judicious about managing your subscriptions -- by canceling Netflix as soon as you're done bingeing "Love Is Blind," for instance.
But that's harder than it sounds. The streaming apps are designed to make us forget we can unsubscribe.
You will not get a reminder that your subscription is up for renewal, said Tony Hu, a program director for engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "When you go into a casino, you don't see the exit signs prominently placed," he added.
So it helps to be aware of what the companies are doing to help you manage your subscriptions. Here's what to look out for.
Why We Forget to Unsubscribe
In May, Caroline Sinders, a designer and artist, published the results of an independent study on how companies including Netflix, Hulu, Vimeo and The New York Times make it hard to unsubscribe from their services.
The study found that some media companies like The Times created friction in the process -- requiring, in some instances, a phone call to cancel a subscription.
Though streaming services like Netflix and Hulu are easier to cancel, you may stay subscribed longer than you want to because of what they don't do, Mx. Sinders said. They don't send emails reminding you that you have a bill coming up. When you're billed, they generally don't send emails of payment receipts.
Harry Brignull, a user-experience consultant and author of a book about the tricks that tech companies use to control you, pointed out that the streaming industry had made consumers accustomed to accepting this practice, even though we would scoff at it for nearly any other transaction.
"How come we're all OK with this?" he asked, adding that if "you walk out of a store, you want to be handed a receipt."
The streaming apps do, however, send lots of emails after you've canceled, hoping to lure you back with marketing messages about new TV shows and movies.
Netflix declined to comment on why it didn't send monthly payment receipts or renewal notices, and it said the best way for people to manage their subscriptions and view past payments was through their account settings on the website. Hulu, Disney and Max did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
"Is a lack of a reminder a harmful design pattern?" Mx. Sinders said. "I would say so. It does put a lot of onus on the user to remember."
Create a Reminder System
The practices mentioned above have become the industry norm, so it's on us to create a system to remind ourselves when to unsubscribe to a streaming service.
Setting up a monthly reminder a few days before a subscription renewal is due would go a long way, Mr. Brignull said. And Mr. Hu, the M.I.T. director, keeps a list of the streaming apps he pays for to track the shows that he and his family are watching on each one, which helps them determine when it's time to cancel.
Paying through a third party is another way to get reminders. When subscribing to a streaming service through Apple's App Store, for instance, you are billed by Apple, which emails monthly payment receipts. PayPal does the same. Apple also makes it simple to see all your subscriptions and renewal dates in one place inside its settings app, so you can cull them more easily.
I take a more aggressive approach. To disable automatic renewal, I cancel a subscription as soon as I sign up. That means that if I want to keep the membership going after the current billing cycle, I have to resubscribe each time, but I think it's worth it for the control it gives me over the billing process.
Whatever avenue you choose, the most important step is to slow down, Mx. Sinders said. When you're ready to unsubscribe, do it on a laptop or tablet rather than on your phone, where you can easily be interrupted or distracted. And when you create reminders in your calendar to cancel your subscriptions, set them up for several days before the next bill hits your credit card.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Subscriptions; Receipts; Streaming services; Streaming media

Business indexing term: Subject: Receipts Streaming services

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/28/technology/personaltech/streaming-service-subscription-costs.html

Title: How to Keep Streaming As Costs Rise:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 29, 2024

column: H Fix

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2932768794

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-keep-streaming-as-costs-rise/docview/2932768794/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

I.R.S. Commissioner Warns Budget Cuts Would Add to Deficit: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Rappeport, Alan

Publication info: Rappeport, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-r-s-commissioner-warns-budget-cuts-would-add/docview/2927047510/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Daniel Werfel, the Internal Revenue Service commissioner, pushed back against claims from Republicans that he had not been following the law.
The head of the Internal Revenue Service warned on Thursday that proposed cuts to his agency's budget would ultimately cost the federal government more money and pushed back against accusations that he had been disregarding laws for political purposes.
The comments by the I.R.S. commissioner, Daniel Werfel, came in testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee as he approaches his first full year on the job. He has been overseeing a $ 60 billion overhaul of the tax collection agency. That funding, under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, had been scaled back from $ 80 billion, and Republican lawmakers are seeking further cuts.
"For every $ 100 million taken from the I.R.S., the deficit grows by $ 600 million over 10 years," Mr. Werfel said, citing Treasury Department data.
Republicans extracted $ 20 billion from the I.R.S. last year when they struck a deal with Democrats to lift the debt limit. They have called for additional clawbacks during negotiations with the White House over how to pay for additional aid for Ukraine.
The threats of budget cuts have added uncertainty to the Biden administration's plans to upgrade the technology the I.R.S. uses to process tax returns and beef up the agency's ability to conduct audits, which Mr. Werfel has pledged will be focused on complex corporate partnerships and wealthy individuals.
Mr. Werfel said the agency had made substantial progress in the past year improving its responsiveness to taxpayers, clearing a backlog of unprocessed tax returns and taking steps to tighten security of taxpayer data after the financial information of wealthy taxpayers, including former President Donald J. Trump, were leaked in high profile security breaches.
Mr. Werfel was pressed over his management of the agency and whether he had been flouting tax laws for political purposes. Republican lawmakers expressed particular concern about his decision to delay enforcement of a contentious tax policy that would require users of digital wallets and e-commerce platforms like Venmo, PayPal and Etsy to start reporting small transactions to the I.R.S.
"I'm extremely concerned that the I.R.S. has been just a little too focused on following political directions of the Biden administration instead of fulfilling its congressionally mandated duties," said Representative Carol Miller, a Republican of West Virginia, who accused the agency of engaging in an "illegal overreach."
Mr. Werfel defended the delay and said that his job allowed him to carry out tax legislation so that taxpayers were not harmed by policies that could cause widespread confusion.
"I believe the I.R.S. commissioner has the authority to implement laws in a manner that ensures taxpayer rights," he said.
For years, the I.R.S. has faced accusations that it acts with a political agenda, as well as conspiracy theories about armed agents coming to harass businesses and taxpayers.
In response to questions about weapons and stocks of ammunition that the agency possesses, Mr. Werfel said that very few I.R.S. agents used weapons and that most of the ammunition was for training purposes. The Treasury Department has said that only about 1 percent of the new agents will work in jobs that require carrying guns.
"Most I.R.S. employees are customer service reps," Mr. Werfel said. "They're armed only with phone headsets, and all of our accountants are armed only with calculators."
Photograph Daniel Werfel, the commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, testified before the House Committee on Ways and Means at a hearing on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAIYUN JIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Federal budget; Tax returns; Politics; Taxpayers; Congressional committees

Business indexing term: Subject: Federal budget Tax returns Taxpayers

People: Werfel, Daniel

Company / organization: Name: Internal Revenue Service--IRS; NAICS: 921130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/15/us/politics/internal-revenue-service-budget-cuts-hearing.html

Title: I.R.S. Commissioner Warns Budget Cuts Would Add to Deficit:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 16, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Sourcetype: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2927047510

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-r-s-commissioner-warns-budget-cuts-would-add/docview/2927047510/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

I.R.S. Commissioner Looks to Lay Out Agency's Progress in an Effort to Fend Off Budget Cuts: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Rappeport, Alan

Publication info: Rappeport, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-r-s-commissioner-looks-lay-out-agencys-progress/docview/2926355393/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Daniel Werfel will try to persuade skeptical Republicans on Thursday that funding the tax agency is a good investment.
At his Senate confirmation last February, Daniel Werfel told lawmakers that if given the job of Internal Revenue Service commissioner he would work to increase "public trust" in the beleaguered agency and use the $ 80 billion that Congress had granted it to build a "more modern and high-performing" organization.
A year later, Mr. Werfel has overseen the clearing of a backlog of thousands of tax filings, shrinking wait times on the I.R.S. telephone lines and the creation of a system that lets qualified taxpayers submit their federal returns with no cost. But those achievements have not been enough to satisfy Republicans, who have accused Mr. Werfel of making the I.R.S. more intrusive and even engaging in lawless behavior.
Hostile congressional hearings are routine for I.R.S. commissioners and when Mr. Werfel testifies before the House Ways and Means Committee on Thursday, he will receive a frosty reception as he fends off efforts to cut his agency's budget.
For Mr. Werfel, the face-off is an opportunity to explain why even skeptics would benefit from a well-funded I.R.S.
"I think the most powerful statement the I.R.S. can make, when there's a proposal to significantly cut our budget, is to show our work and to demonstrate that we're on a strong path to improving tax operations in a way that benefits taxpayers," Mr. Werfel said in an interview this week.
The I.R.S. was supposed to get $ 80 billion as part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, and that money was expected to help the agency crack down on tax cheats and modernize its antiquated technology. As part of an agreement to raise the debt limit last year, Democrats went along with Republicans' demands to claw back $ 20 billion of those funds. And Republican lawmakers have in recent months been eyeing additional cuts amid negotiations related to paying for other policies.
During his first year on the job, Mr. Werfel has tried to ease concerns fomented by critics of the agency that the I.R.S. would be hiring thousands of armed agents to harass middle-class Americans and small businesses. To do that, he has focused on efforts to make the I.R.S. more accessible by staffing up customer service centers and making it possible for taxpayers to reach the agency without having to wait for hours on the telephone.
As part of its modernization campaign, the I.R.S. also announced initiatives to crack down on wealthy tax evaders, stopped its practice of sending agents unannounced to residences to collect unpaid taxes and started introducing artificial intelligence technology into its audits.
But top Republicans have argued that any signs of progress at the I.R.S. are overshadowed by lingering problems. They insist that Mr. Werfel's agency, which they believe has a history of targeting conservatives, is influenced by politics and favors Democrats.
Those concerns have been inflamed by recent security breaches. The I.R.S. has been under pressure to improve its data security protocols after a former contractor who was accused of leaking the tax documents of Donald J. Trump and other wealthy Americans was sentenced to five years in prison. A report published last week by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration found that as of July, more than 200 former I.R.S. employees or contractors still had access to sensitive information.
Members of the tax committee are expected to press Mr. Werfel on Thursday about why he delayed enforcement of a contentious tax policy that would require users of digital wallets and e-commerce platforms like Venmo, PayPal, Cash App, StubHub and Etsy to start reporting small transactions to the tax collection agency. The policy was enacted as part of the American Rescue Plan of 2021 and has faced criticism because it would increase scrutiny of lower- and middle-class taxpayers. Although Republicans loathe the policy, they contend that Mr. Werfel's delays are flouting the law.
"The I.R.S. should not be shielding Democrats from the consequences of their own bad lawmaking," Representative Jason Smith of Missouri, the Republican chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said in a statement. "The I.R.S. cannot sidestep the Constitution and simply rewrite laws."
Mr. Werfel said he planned to argue that he was within his rights to delay the so-called Venmo tax because the law, as written, would cause widespread confusion and potentially harm taxpayers. And he would make the case that data security at the agency had significantly improved in the past year. Such incidents, however, have provided critics of the I.R.S. with fodder to argue that it does not deserve the additional funding that it has received.
"Whenever you have some negotiation about budget things, you want money for Ukraine or Israel or something, we'll take it out of the I.R.S. piggy bank," said Grover Norquist, founder and president of Americans for Tax Reform, a group that promotes lower taxes. "Because they've shown no seriousness about being better about anything."
The Biden administration has said the continuing attacks on the I.R.S. are part of a strategy to weaken the agency so it does not have the capacity to catch wealthy taxpayers who evade paying what they owe. The Treasury Department estimates that the United States has a nearly $ 700 billion "tax gap" of revenue that is uncollected every year and argues that stronger enforcement of the tax code is critical for reducing America's reliance on borrowed money.
"There are those who have power and those who have wealth who would like nothing more than for the I.R.S. to not have the resources to go after them and make them pay their fair share," Wally Adeyemo, the deputy Treasury secretary, said in an interview.
The frequent discussions about chipping away at the agency's funding have left Mr. Werfel looking over his shoulder as he tries to carry out the priorities in the ambitious multiyear operating plan that the agency produced last year.
Mr. Werfel said that the barrage of criticism directed at the I.R.S. over the years had taken a toll on its staff but that he believed that morale was starting to improve. He likens the role of the agency to that of an impartial referee who is necessary for government to function, but he acknowledges the challenge of staying out of politics.
"I think most people see us as the tax collector, and that is not the most popular action that the government takes," Mr. Werfel said. "It becomes the reality that when the debate is about the role of government, the size of government, the actions of government, that the I.R.S. is going to be front and center in that debate."
Photograph Daniel Werfel, the I.R.S. commissioner, has faced G.O.P. accusations that he's made the agency more intrusive. This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Tax gap; Middle class; Budgets; Funding; Politics

Business indexing term: Subject: Tax gap Budgets

People: Werfel, Daniel

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/14/us/politics/irs-budget-congressional-hearing.html

Title: I.R.S. Commissioner Looks to Lay Out Agency's Progress in an Effort to Fend Off Budget Cuts:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 15, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2926355393

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-r-s-commissioner-looks-lay-out-agencys-progress/docview/2926355393/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Buoyed by Strong Data, Wall Street Holds Near Record Levels: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/buoyed-strong-data-wall-street-holds-near-record/docview/2923691000/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Stocks ticked higher on Thursday to set more records as further evidence piled up to show the job market remained remarkably solid.
The S&P 500 inched up 0.1 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average also set a record after edging up by 0.1 percent. The Nasdaq composite gained 0.2 percent.
During the day, the S&P 500 briefly topped the 5,000 level for the first time. Such milestones don't mean much in a market that's supposed to be dictated by math and dollars and cents. But it can offer a psychological boost for a market that can often move on emotion as well.
"It is a great reminder of how far we've come, and it wasn't that long ago that everyone on TV was telling us about a near-certain bear market and recession," said Ryan Detrick, chief market strategist at Carson Group.
The U.S. economy has blown past earlier expectations for a recession, and the latest show of strength came from a report indicating fewer workers applied for unemployment benefits last week than expected. The number remains low relative to history, even if layoffs at Google's parent company, Macy's and other big-name companies have been getting attention recently.
In prior months, such a report may have hurt the stock market because of concerns that it would mean a longer wait for cuts to interest rates from the Federal Reserve. But investors have been coming around to the idea that good news on the economy is good for stocks because it will drive profits for companies.
The latest set of earnings reports from big companies also kept the stock market mixed overall.
The Walt Disney Co. jumped 11.5 percent after it reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. It benefited from cost cuts and growth at its theme parks.
Ralph Lauren was another winner, rising 16.8 percent after its profit and revenue topped Wall Street's forecasts. It said it saw strong holiday sales around the world, led by Asia.
U.S.-listed shares of Arm Holdings, a British-based semiconductor company, soared 47.9 percent after it also topped analysts' expectations.
Helping to offset those gains was PayPal, which slumped 11.2 percent even though it reported stronger profit than expected. It gave a forecast for expected profit across 2024 that fell short of analysts' expectations.
S&P Global was also one of the heavier weights on the S&P 500 and fell 5 percent after reporting weaker profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected.
New York Community Bancorp had another sharp zigzag day and went from an early loss of nearly 10 percent to a gain and back to a loss of 6.5 percent. Its stock has dropped nearly 60 percent since it shocked investors across the banking industry with a surprise loss last week, and Moody's cut its credit rating to "junk" status earlier this week.
Analysts have said its problems are specific to it, particularly as it absorbs the purchase of much of Signature Bank, which was one of the banks that fell in last year's mini-crisis for the industry. But worries remain high about a problem affecting banks worldwide: commercial real estate weakness.
Stocks of other regional banks have also swung sharply lately, reanimating uncomfortable memories of last year's banking crisis. The KBW Nasdaq Regional Banking index flipped between gains and losses through the day before finishing 0.3 percent higher.
In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 4.15 percent from 4.12 percent late Wednesday.
Traders have taken heed of warnings from the Federal Reserve that its first cut to rates following years of rapid hikes won't come soon.
Traders still expect rate cuts to come, just later in the year than they were hoping before. The Fed has said it doesn't want to overdo high rates, which would create unnecessary pain for the economy.
Credit: By The Associated Press
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Dow Jones averages; Stock exchanges; Bear markets; Interest rates; Regional banks; Securities markets; Banking

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock exchanges Bear markets Interest rates Regional banks Securities markets Banking

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02 /08/business/09markets.html

Title: Buoyed by Strong Data, Wall Street Holds Near Record Levels:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 9, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2923691000

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/buoyed-strong-data-wall-street-holds-near-record/docview/2923691000/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 9, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Most Investors Should Resist Crypto Assets' Temptations: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Sommer, Jeff

Publication info: Sommer, Jeff. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/most-investors-should-resist-crypto-assets/docview/2918856476/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Fear of missing out isn't a great reason for investing in the new Bitcoin funds, our columnist says. Plus, Bitcoin may already be hidden in your portfolio.
Exchange-traded funds come in many shapes and sizes. Some are plain vanilla, diversified index funds that let you invest in the entire stock and bond markets, and are excellent core holdings for the great majority of people.
Then there are the quirky, narrowly focused E.T.F.s like the Inverse Cramer Tracker, which enables you to bet against the stock picks of the CNBC television host Jim Cramer. The fund is legal, approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission -- and a money-loser since its inception last year. Betting against Jim Cramer just isn't a great investing strategy.
Neither is fear of missing out. Yet FOMO is the main reason for putting money into Bitcoin, which remains highly speculative, difficult to categorize and without an immediately identifiable economic function.
The S.E.C. this month approved 11 new E.T.F.s that track the price of Bitcoin, and the decision has been heralded by promoters of Bitcoin -- and of the new funds -- as an important event, legitimizing Bitcoin as an asset class.
I don't think so.
The S.E.C.'s action, in itself, doesn't give Bitcoin any new stature. It merely adds Bitcoin funds to a long list of E.T.F.s that are perfectly legal and simple to buy, but that don't belong in anybody's core portfolio. I'd put the Inverse Cramer Tracker in this category, as well as E.T.F.s that track a single stock like Tesla, PayPal or Nvidia, or that use leverage to triple a bet on energy prices or quadruple one on the S&P 500. I could go on and on.
Simply being legal doesn't make a strategy sensible for most investors. In fact, while approving the Bitcoin E.T.F.s, the agency also issued an explicit warning against FOMO investing in so-called digital assets -- as it has done many times before.
"Just because others around you might be buying into these kinds of opportunities, it doesn't mean you have to," said Lori Schock, director of the S.E.C.'s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy.
The agency's approval of the new Bitcoin funds does change things in one important sense, though. Until now, it was easy for me to avoid discussing Bitcoin in the context of investing. Why bring attention to something that isn't right for most people? But now that major financial services companies like BlackRock, Fidelity, Franklin Templeton, Invesco and Wisdom Tree are beginning to operate Bitcoin E.T.F.s, and make them available to their clients, silence seems unnatural and, maybe, irresponsible.
So here goes.
Making Sense of Bitcoin
I don't want to dismiss Bitcoin entirely.
Granted, it's possible to make -- and lose -- a great deal of money buying and selling it. And Bitcoin is a serious proposition, in terms of its underlying structure. The use of blockchain, the decentralized, peer-to-peer structure and the complex mathematical code demand respect. Concepts embedded in Bitcoin and other so-called cryptocurrencies could have real-world importance at some point, and in some way, though perhaps not as Bitcoin.
As Bryan Armour, who directs research into strategies based on index funds at Morningstar, told me, "Not believing that Bitcoin E.T.F.s are a good investment doesn't mean that blockchain isn't a good or useful technology."
But Bitcoin itself? He put it politely. "I'd say Bitcoin is still in the price discovery stage. We're still trying to figure out what it might be worth."
For large corporations or other big institutional investors interested in getting some Bitcoin exposure, the new E.T.F.s may be a better and more convenient option, said Samara Cohen, chief investment officer of E.T.F. and index investments at BlackRock. "It's the start of a journey," she said.
But for ordinary people investing for important things like retirement or a house or a child's education, I'd be very careful. The collapse of the FTX trading platform in 2022 and the fraud and conspiracy conviction of Sam Bankman-Fried only a few months ago are reminders that Bitcoin is extremely risky. Its future is uncertain, and so is its very definition.
Defining Terms
Just to start, I find the term cryptocurrency to be a misnomer. These things aren't currencies because they can't be widely exchanged for products and services in the real world. But even if they were currencies, it wouldn't make sense for ordinary people to invest in them. Major corporations hedge against fluctuations in currency values, but most of us invest in assets that at least have the potential of producing income and cash flow -- assets that can be purchased with currency.
Then we get to the central claim for the new E.T.F.s -- that they are helping to create "an asset class," one that "protects you" in times of uncertainty, much as gold did "for thousands of years," in the words of Laurence D. Fink, the chairman of BlackRock. This comparison, I think, is strained.
Gold has a historical cachet, has actually served as money, is still held by central banks, has commercial uses in jewelry and industry and has an important cultural role in countries like India. Bitcoin has none of those attributes.
But in one sense I agree with the comparison. Gold is not an important part of a modern diversified investment portfolio, which contains stocks, bonds and cash.
Small amounts of gold may not hurt you much, but they won't help much either, numerous studies have shown. The stock market has done better over the long run than gold as an inflation hedge. Nobody needs gold as an investment now.
That's true of Bitcoin, too, which, in its brief life since its inception during the financial crisis of 2008-9, has not been an effective inflation hedge.
But it's different from gold. Bitcoin has added considerable risk to the portfolios of those who have held it.
A Morningstar study last year by Madeline Hume found that as little as a 2 percent holding of Bitcoin can transform a conservative stock-bond portfolio into a far riskier one. Investors may be tempted by Bitcoin when its price is rising, but beware: "Compared with other assets, though, Bitcoin's volatility is more kerosene than kindling," the report said.
Already Exposed
In a very small way, even without the new E.T.F.s, there's a good chance that you already have exposure to Bitcoin in your portfolio.
Most of the new E.T.F.s rely on Coinbase, which calls itself "a trusted and easy-to-use platform for accessing the broader cryptoeconomy," for important functions: converting cash into Bitcoin and Bitcoin into cash, storage and safekeeping of Bitcoin, assistance in monitoring the fund's operations and sometimes all of these.
Coinbase is a publicly traded company, and the largest holders of most such companies are mutual funds and E.T.F.s run by giants like Vanguard, BlackRock, State Street and Fidelity. I checked: My Vanguard workplace retirement accounts include broad, diversified stock index funds that hold Coinbase.
And that's not all. They also include small shares of companies like MicroStrategy, which owns a lot of Bitcoin. Then there are firms like Riot Platforms and CleanSpark that call themselves "Bitcoin miners" -- entities that run the computers that generate new Bitcoin and keep the Bitcoin universe spinning.
I don't see a great social purpose for Bitcoin mining. A 2022 White House report said global electricity consumption for "crypto assets" was greater than "the total annual electricity usage of many individual countries, such as Argentina or Australia." That's hard to justify in an age of global warming.
I'm not happy about this, but I have a stake in them, and you probably do, too. That's the way index fund investing goes. You hold part of the entire universe of publicly traded companies. On the positive side, if it turns out that I'm wrong about Bitcoin, and that it really is the next big thing -- and, somehow, is needed to save the planet -- well, these companies will grow in size, and my portfolio will swell, too. That would be a win-win, though I'm not counting on it.
Vanguard, I should point out, has taken a principled stand against Bitcoin. Its broad index funds own the companies involved with crypto because those funds own all companies. But if you want to buy the new Bitcoin E.T.F.s -- or, as of Jan. 12, older ones that tracked Bitcoin futures markets -- you can't do it at Vanguard.
In an email, Karyn Baldwin, a spokeswoman, said: "We also have no plans to offer Vanguard Bitcoin E.T.F.s or other crypto-related products." Instead, she said, Vanguard is "focused on asset classes such as equities, bonds, and cash, which Vanguard views as the building blocks of a well-balanced, long-term investment portfolio."
That makes sense to me. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are not a legitimate asset class, at least not yet. Publicly traded Bitcoin companies are. I can live with that oddity.
In short, although the new E.T.F.s may help the companies involved with them and may well cause interest in Bitcoin to grow, Bitcoin still isn't important for serious individual investors.
Nothing the S.E.C. has done this month has changed that.
That doesn't mean you should avoid Bitcoin. Owning some might be fun and profitable. But I'd make the same statement about buying lottery tickets, spending evenings at a casino, making online bets on your favorite sports team -- or purchasing shares of the Inverse Cramer Tracker.
If you can afford to spend your money on entertainments like these, by all means, enjoy yourself. But don't kid yourself that you're making a solid long-term investment.
.
.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Digital currencies; Blockchain; Currency; Bond portfolios; Institutional investments; Index funds; Investors; Portfolio management

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Blockchain Currency Bond portfolios Institutional investments Index funds Portfolio management

People: Cramer, James J

Company / organization: Name: Coinbase Inc; NAICS: 518210, 523160

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/19/business/crypto-bitcoin-funds-investing.html

Title: Most Investors Should Resist Crypto Assets' Temptations:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 28, 2024

column: Strategies

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2918856476

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/most-investors-should-resist-crypto-assets/docview/2918856476/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Apple Eases Its Iron Grip On App Shop For Europe: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Satariano, Adam; Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Satariano, Adam; Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/apple-eases-iron-grip-on-app-shop-europe/docview/2918427169/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: An E.U. law taking effect in March forced Apple to loosen its grip on the App Store, changes it had long resisted.
Since Apple introduced the App Store in 2008, it has tightly controlled the apps and services allowed on iPhones and iPads, giving the company an iron grip on one of the digital economy's most valuable storefronts.
Now Apple is weakening its hold on the store, in one of the most consequential signs to date of how new European regulations are changing consumer technology.
To comply with a European Union competition law taking effect on March 7, Apple on Thursday announced major changes to the App Store and other services for consumers in Europe. Users of iPhones and iPads in the 27-nation bloc will for the first time be able to use alternative app stores to download games, productivity tools and other apps. Banks and shopping services can offer competing payment methods inside their apps. People who buy new iPhones in the future will also see a new menu for downloading alternative browsers to Apple's Safari, such as Chrome and Firefox.
The changes are some of the most tangible examples of how a checkerboard of laws and regulations is now fracturing people's technology experiences, depending on where they live. In China, government rules force Apple to block apps like virtual-private networks, known as VPNs, which would give users access to the unfiltered internet. In Europe, customers will now have access to competing app stores and other services. In the United States, where there are fewer laws and regulations, Apple and other tech giants have more flexibility to operate as they please.
The shifts in the App Store stem from a 2022 law called the Digital Markets Act. The far-reaching law was aimed at loosening the power of the world's largest tech companies in areas like e-commerce, social media and messaging. Amazon, Meta, Google and Microsoft have also announced changes to comply with the new rules.
"The changes we're announcing today comply with the Digital Markets Act's requirements in the European Union, while helping to protect E.U. users from the unavoidable increased privacy and security threats this regulation brings," Phil Schiller, who leads the App Store, said in a statement.
Europe accounts for about 6 percent of Apple's App Store sales, which are estimated to be $ 24 billion annually worldwide.
E.U. regulators have long raised alarms that Apple abuses its control over the App Store to stifle competition. The Silicon Valley company has argued that its gatekeeper role protects customers from malware, privacy breaches and flawed apps. But app developers like Spotify and Epic Games, the maker of Fortnite, have said Apple misuses its power by demanding that they pay high fees and forcing them to use underlying technology that it makes.
For years, Apple has resisted making the kinds of changes it announced on Thursday. It is unclear if the moves will satisfy European regulators who have vowed to aggressively enforce compliance with the Digital Markets Act.
A spokesman for the European Commission, the European Union's executive branch, declined to comment on Apple's announcement.
Apple said it would maintain some oversight of new marketplaces and apps working outside its App Store, but warned that the new E.U. policies would give hackers and criminals a new path to distribute malware and defraud customers. The company said it had created a system to monitor all iOS apps, approve alternative app stores and track alternative payment systems.
Apple said developers would also be charged a fee of 50 euro cents for every download of their app after it has been downloaded one million times or more within a 12-month period, regardless of whether it was through the App Store or an alternative. This will also apply to free apps, but not apps distributed by government, education and nonprofit organizations.
The new rules could dent Apple's finances. The App Store's policy of taking up to 30 percent of developers' sales has made it a critical piece of the company's nearly $ 400 billion business. But it has also opened Apple to criticism and regulatory scrutiny because many developers complained that the fees were unjust.
In Europe, Apple said, developers using the App Store will have the option to continue using the existing commission terms, or move to a new fee structure. This will include a reduced commission fee of up to 17 percent for digital goods and services. An additional fee of 3 percent will be charged to developers who use Apple's payment system.
Tim Sweeney, the chief executive of Epic Games, said Apple's new policies were a "horror show" for developers, filled with "new junk fees on downloads and Apple taxes on payments they don't process." He said Apple was also maintaining the power to block a company like Epic from introducing a games store.
"Apple proposes that it can choose which stores are allowed to compete with their App Store," he said in a post on X.
Apple said its fees covered the costs of developing its software and providing tools to developers.
Developers who distribute their app through a competing app store will not be subject to any Apple commission. And developers who provide links to complete payments outside their apps can also forgo certain transaction fees.
Developers will also be able to avoid what some of them have said is a cumbersome review process by Apple of the apps it distributes in its store. But the company has created a new system, which it calls notarization, to maintain some control over the apps distributed across iPhones. Every iPhone app will include an installation key to provide Apple with information on when it was installed and allow the company to do automated scans for malware.
As part of the notarization process, apps will provide Apple with descriptions and screenshots of the services they offer, as well as the names of the developers. Apple will share that information with iPhone users before an app is downloaded.
Spotify did not immediately have a comment on Apple's announcement. In a blog post this week, Spotify said the Digital Markets Act would help developers offer new services to customers.
"Developers everywhere are continuing to ask other governments to pass their own laws like the D.M.A.," the company said.
Apple also introduced a feature for customers to use alternatives to its Wallet app for mobile payments, an increasingly common form of payment for public transportation, restaurants and cafes. Major banks and businesses like PayPal can now offer competing services.
Apple has challenged some elements of the new European law, including a requirement that would open its messaging service, iMessage, to work more smoothly with Android devices. The company has argued that iMessage isn't subject to the requirements because it is free to customers.
The European Union has not made a final decision on the messaging issue.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Malware; Mobile commerce; Privacy; Fees & charges

Business indexing term: Subject: Mobile commerce

Location: Europe

Company / organization: Name: Epic Games; NAICS: 513210; Name: Eu ropean Union; NAICS: 926110, 928120; Name: Spotify AB; NAICS: 516210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/25/technology/apple-app-store-europe.html

Title: Apple Eases Its Iron Grip On App Shop For Europe:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 26, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2918427169

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/apple-eases-iron-grip-on-app-shop-europe/docview/2918427169/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Rightsizing': [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rightsizing/docview/2913829486/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Various companies have used the term to describe job cuts, but some criticize the language as opaque.
/rīt-sī-zĭng/
A term that has been used by various companies to describe job cuts that they say are meant to adjust for overhiring over the last few years; a way to avoid using the dreaded term "laying off."
As the era of low interest rates came to a halt over the past two years, hundreds of tech companies slashed jobs.
Alphabet, Google's parent company, cut 12,000 jobs, or about 6 percent of its global work force, at the start of 2023. Meta laid off more than 10,000 employees, or roughly 13 percent of its staff. So did dozens of other household-name behemoths, including Microsoft, Amazon and Disney. More than 260,000 tech employees were laid off in 2023, according to Layoffs.fyi, a site that tracks job cuts across the tech industry. Google just announced more cuts this month.
Some executives were squeamish about using the term "laid off," so many cloaked such discussions in opaque language.
"The term 'rightsizing' sounds more neutral," Roger Lee, the creator of Layoffs.fyi, said, adding that the phrase is also used "to convey the fact that these companies did a lot of hiring the past couple years, and now realize, given the current economic reality, it makes sense for the business to go back to a smaller size."
Some layoffs were announced in the strange, isolating environment of remote work settings -- with workers shutting down their laptops, in their living rooms, knowing they might never speak to their teammates again.
When Wayfair, the furniture retailer, announced it was laying off 1,750 employees, or 10 percent of its work force, last January, the company said it was part of a "rightsizing" plan. That same month, when PayPal eliminated 2,000 full-time roles, or 7 percent of its overall staff, the company also discussed "rightsizing our cost structure."
But experts caution that avoiding the phrase "job cuts" doesn't soften the blow for employees who lose work. "This language can dehumanize the process," Mr. Lee said, "and perhaps have the unintended effect of making the employee feel that the company doesn't fully realize the real impact the decision has."
Sandra Sucher, a Harvard professor of management who has studied layoffs, said using euphemisms during a layoff process could reflect the psychological phenomenon of "moral disengagement," in which business leaders rely on squishy language to distance themselves from the ethics of the decisions they make. But for workers, the term "rightsizing" means one thing: They've been laid off.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Layoffs; Employees; Employment

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Employees Employment

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/11/why-are-so-many-companies-rightsizing.html

Title: 'Rightsizing':   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 14, 2024

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2913829486

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rightsizing/docview/2913829486/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pay-Later Loans Put Some At Risk for 'Phantom Debt': [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Casselman, Ben; Holman, Jordyn

Publication info: Casselman, Ben; Holman, Jordyn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pay-later-loans-put-some-at-risk-phantom-debt/docview/2904514756/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Buying mattresses, clothes and other goods on installment plans has propped up spending, but economists worry that such loans could put some people at risk.
"Buy now, pay later" loans are helping to fuel a record-setting holiday shopping season. Economists worry they could also be masking and exacerbating cracks in Americans' financial well-being.
The loans, which allow consumers to pay for purchases in installments, often interest-free, have soared in popularity because of high prices and interest rates. Retailers have used them to attract customers and to get people to spend more.
But such loans may be encouraging younger and lower-income Americans to take on too much debt, according to consumer groups and some lawmakers. And because such loans aren't routinely reported to credit bureaus or captured in public data, they could also represent a hidden source of risk to the financial system.
"The more I dig into it, the more concerned I am," said Tim Quinlan, a Wells Fargo economist who recently published a report that described pay-later loans as "phantom debt."
Traditional measures of consumer credit indicate that U.S. household finances overall are relatively healthy. But, Mr. Quinlan said, "if those are missing the fastest-growing piece of the market, then those reassurances aren't worth a darn."
Estimates of the size of this market vary widely. Mr. Quinlan thinks that spending through pay-later options was about $ 46 billion this year. That is small when compared with the more than $ 3 trillion that Americans put on their credit cards last year.
But such loans -- offered by companies like Klarna, Affirm, Afterpay and PayPal -- have climbed fast at a moment when the finances of some Americans are showing early signs of strain.
Credit card borrowing is at a record high in dollar terms -- though not as a share of income -- and delinquencies, though low by historical standards, are rising. That stress is especially evident among younger adults.
People in their 20s and 30s are by far the biggest users of pay-later loans, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. That could be both a sign of financial problems -- young people may be using pay-later loans after maxing out credit cards -- and a cause of it by encouraging them to spend excessively.
Liz Cisneros, a 23-year-old college student in Chicago who works part time at Home Depot, said she was surprised by the ease of pay-later programs. During the pandemic, she saw influencers on TikTok promoting the loans, and a friend said they helped her buy designer shoes.
Ms. Cisneros started using them to buy clothes, shoes and Sephora beauty products. She often had multiple loans at a time. She realized she was overspending when she didn't have enough money while in a grocery checkout line. A pay-later company had withdrawn funds from her bank account that morning, and she had lost track of her payment schedule.
"It's easy when you keep continually clicking and clicking and clicking, and then it's not," she said, referring to when she realizes she has spent too much.
Ms. Cisneros said the problem was particularly intense around Christmas, and this year she was not shopping for the holiday so she could pay off her debts.
Pay-later loans became available in the United States years ago, but they took off during the pandemic when online shopping surged.
The products are somewhat similar to the layaway programs offered decades earlier by retailers. Online shoppers can choose from pay-later options at checkout or on the apps of pay-later companies. The loans are also available at some physical stores; Affirm said on Tuesday that it had started offering pay-later loans at the self-checkout counters at Walmart stores.
The most common loans require buyers to pay a quarter of the purchase price upfront with the rest usually paid in three installments over six weeks. Such loans are typically interest-free, though users sometimes end up owing fees. Pay-later companies make most of their money by charging fees to retailers.
Some lenders also offer interest-bearing loans with repayment terms that can last a few months to more than a year.
Pay-later companies say their products are better for borrowers than credit cards or payday loans. They say that by offering shorter loans, they can better assess borrowers' ability to repay.
"We're able to identify and extend credit to consumers who have the ability and willingness to repay above that of revolving credit accounts," Michael Linford, Affirm's chief financial officer, said in an interview.
In its most recent quarter, 2.4 percent of Affirm's loans were delinquent by 30 days or longer, down from 2.7 percent a year earlier. Those numbers exclude its four-payment loans.
The service makes the most sense for certain purchases, like buying an expensive sweater that will last many years, said the chief executive of Klarna, Sebastian Siemiatkowski.
He said pay later probably made less sense for more frequent purchases like groceries, though Klarna and other companies do make their loans available at some grocery stores.
Mr. Siemiatkowski acknowledged that people could misuse his company's loans.
"Obviously it's still credit, and so you're going to find a subset of individuals who unfortunately are using it in not the way intended," said Mr. Siemiatkowski, who founded Klarna in 2005. He said the company tried to identify those users and deny them loans or impose stricter terms on them.
Klarna, which is based in Stockholm, says its global default rates are less than 1 percent. In the United States, more than a third of customers repay loans early.
Kelsey Greco made her first pay-later purchase about four years ago to buy a mattress. Paying $ 1,200 in cash would have been difficult, and putting the purchase on a credit card seemed unwise. So she got a 12-month, interest-free loan from Affirm.
Since then, Ms. Greco, 30, has used Affirm regularly, including for a Dyson hair tool and car brakes. Some of the loans charged interest, but she said that even then she preferred this form of borrowing because it was clear how much she would pay and when.
"With a credit card, you can swipe it all day long and be like, 'Wait, what did I just get myself into?"' Ms. Greco, a Denver resident, said. "Whereas with Affirm, it's giving you these clear-cut numbers where you can see, 'OK, this makes sense' or 'This doesn't make sense."'
Ms. Greco, who was introduced to The New York Times by Affirm, said pay-later loans helped her avoid credit card debt, with which she previously had trouble.
But not all consumers use pay-later options carefully. A report from the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau this year found that nearly 43 percent of pay-later users had overdrawn a bank account in the previous 12 months, compared with 17 percent of nonusers.
"This is just a more vulnerable portion of the population," said Ed deHaan, a researcher at Stanford University.
In a paper published last year, Mr. deHaan and three other scholars found that within a month of first using pay-later loans, people became more likely to experience overdrafts and to start accruing credit card late fees.
Financial advisers who work with low-income Americans say more clients are using pay-later loans.
Barbara L. Martinez, a financial counselor in Chicago who works at Heartland Alliance, a nonprofit group, said many of her clients used cash advances to cover pay-later loans. When paychecks arrive, they don't have enough to cover bills, forcing them to turn to more pay-later loans.
"It is not that the product is bad," she added, but "it can get out of control really fast and cause a lot of damage that could be prevented."
Briana Gordley learned about pay-later products in college. She was working part time and couldn't get approved for a credit card, but pay-later providers were eager to extend her credit. She started falling behind when her work hours were reduced. Eventually, family and friends helped her repay the debts.
Ms. Gordley, who testified about her experience last year in a listening session hosted by the Senate, now works on consumer finance issues for Texas Appleseed, a progressive policy organization. She said pay-later loans could be an important source of credit for communities that lacked access to traditional loans. She still uses them occasionally for larger purchases.
But she said companies and regulators needed to make sure that borrowers could afford the debt they were taking on. "If we're going to create these products and build out these systems for people, we also just have to have some checks and balances in place."
The Truth in Lending Act of 1968 requires credit card companies and other lenders to disclose interest rates and fees and provides borrowers with various protections, including the ability to dispute charges. But the act applies only to loans with more than four payment installments, effectively excluding many pay-later loans.
Many such loans also aren't reported to credit agencies. As a result, consumers could have multiple loans with Klarna, Afterpay and Affirm without the companies knowing about the other debts.
"It's a huge blind spot right now, and we all know that," said Liz Pagel, a senior vice president at TransUnion who oversees the company's consumer lending business.
TransUnion and other major credit bureaus and pay-later companies all say they are supportive of more reporting.
But there are practical hurdles. The credit-rating system rates borrowers more highly for having longer-term loans, including longstanding credit card accounts. Each pay-later purchase qualifies as a separate loan. As a result, those loans could lower the scores of borrowers even if they repay them on time.
Ms. Pagel said TransUnion had created a new reporting system for the loans. Other credit bureaus, such as Experian and Equifax, are doing the same.
Pay-later firms say they are reporting certain loans, particularly ones with longer terms. But most are not reporting and won't commit to reporting loans with just four payments.
That worries economists who say they are particularly concerned about how such loans will play out when the economy weakens and workers start losing their jobs.
Marco di Maggio, a Harvard Business School professor who has studied pay-later products, said that when times were tough more people would use such loans for smaller expenses and get into trouble. "You only need one more shock to push people into default."
Photograph Pay-later loans took off during the pandemic when online shopping surged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Barbara L. Martinez, left, a financial counselor, says many of her clients use cash advances to cover pay-later loans. Above, Briana Gordley had to turn to family and friends for help in repaying debts after her work hours were cut. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE KELTER DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MONTINIQUE MONROE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Credit card industry; Consumers; Borrowing; Purchasing; Pandemics; Consumer credit; Credit bureaus; Shopping; Interest rates; Debt; Loans; Credit cards; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Credit card industry Consumers Borrowing Consumer credit Credit bureaus Interest rates Debt Loans Credit cards Grocery stores

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/20/business/economy/pay-later-credit-debt.html

Title: Pay-Later Loans Put Some At Risk for 'Phantom Debt':   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 22, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2904514756

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pay-later-loans-put-some-at-risk-phantom-debt/docview/2904514756/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Americans May Be Taking on Too Much Pay-Later ‘Phantom Debt’

Author: Casselman, Ben; Holman, Jordyn

Publication info: Casselman, Ben; Holman, Jordyn. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/americans-may-be-taking-on-too-much-pay-later/docview/2904423888/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
“Buy now, pay later” loans are helping to fuel a record-setting holiday shopping season. Economists worry they could also be masking and exacerbating cracks in Americans’ financial well-being.
The loans, which allow consumers to pay for purchases in installments, often interest-free, have soared in popularity because of high prices and interest rates. Retailers have used them to attract customers and to get people to spend more.
But such loans may be encouraging younger and lower-income Americans to take on too much debt, according to consumer groups and some lawmakers. And because such loans aren’t routinely reported to credit bureaus or captured in public data, they could also represent a hidden source of risk to the financial system.
“The more I dig into it, the more concerned I am,” said Tim Quinlan, a Wells Fargo economist who recently published a report that described pay-later loans as “phantom debt.”
Traditional measures of consumer credit indicate that U.S. household finances overall are relatively healthy. But, Quinlan said, “if those are missing the fastest-growing piece of the market, then those reassurances aren’t worth a darn.”
Estimates of the size of this market vary widely. Quinlan thinks that spending through pay-later options was about $46 billion this year. That is small when compared with the more than $3 trillion that Americans put on their credit cards last year.
But such loans — offered by companies like Klarna, Affirm, Afterpay and PayPal — have climbed fast at a moment when the finances of some Americans are showing early signs of strain.
Credit card borrowing is at a record high in dollar terms — although not as a share of income — and delinquencies, although low by historical standards, are rising. That stress is especially evident among younger adults.
People in their 20s and 30s are by far the biggest users of pay-later loans, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. That could be both a sign of financial problems — young people may be using pay-later loans after maxing out credit cards — and a cause of it by encouraging them to spend excessively.
Liz Cisneros, a 23-year-old college student in Chicago who works part time at Home Depot, said she was surprised by the ease of pay-later programs. During the pandemic, she saw influencers on TikTok promoting the loans, and a friend said they helped her buy designer shoes.
Cisneros started using them to buy clothes, shoes and Sephora beauty products. She often had multiple loans at a time. She realized she was overspending when she didn’t have enough money while in a grocery checkout line. A pay-later company had withdrawn funds from her bank account that morning and she had lost track of her payment schedule.
“It’s easy when you keep continually clicking and clicking and clicking, and then it’s not,” she said, referring to when she realizes she has spent too much.
Cisneros said the problem was particularly intense around Christmas, and this year she was not shopping for the holiday so she could pay off her debts.
Pay-later loans became available in the United States years ago, but they took off during the pandemic when online shopping surged.
The products are somewhat similar to the layaway programs offered decades earlier by retailers. Online shoppers can choose from pay-later options at checkout or on the apps of pay-later companies. The loans are also available at some physical stores; Affirm said Tuesday that it had started offering pay-later loans at the self-checkout counters at Walmart stores.
The most common loans require buyers to pay one-quarter of the purchase price upfront, with the rest usually paid in three installments over six weeks. Such loans are typically interest-free, although users sometimes end up owing fees. Pay-later companies make most of their money by charging fees to retailers.
Some lenders also offer interest-bearing loans with repayment terms that can last a few months to more than a year.
Pay-later companies say their products are better for borrowers than credit cards or payday loans. They say that by offering shorter loans, they can better assess borrowers’ ability to repay.
“We’re able to identify and extend credit to consumers who have the ability and willingness to repay above that of revolving credit accounts,” Michael Linford, Affirm’s chief financial officer, said in an interview.
In its most recent quarter, 2.4% of Affirm loans were delinquent by 30 days or longer, down from 2.7% a year earlier. Those numbers exclude its four-payment loans.
The service makes the most sense for certain purchases, like buying an expensive sweater that will last many years, Klarna CEO Sebastian Siemiatkowski said.
He said that pay later probably made less sense for more frequent purchases like groceries, although Klarna and other companies do make their loans available at some grocery stores.
Siemiatkowski acknowledged that people could misuse his company’s loans.
“Obviously it’s still credit and so you’re going to find a subset of individuals who unfortunately are using it in not the way intended,” said Siemiatkowski, who founded Klarna in 2005. He said the company tried to identify those users and deny them loans or impose stricter terms on them.
Klarna, which is based in Stockholm, said its global default rates are less than 1%. In the United States, more than one-third of customers repay loans early.
Kelsey Greco made her first pay-later purchase about four years ago to buy a mattress. Paying $1,200 in cash would have been difficult, and putting the purchase on a credit card seemed unwise. So she got a 12-month, interest-free loan from Affirm.
Since then, Greco, 30, has used Affirm regularly, including for a Dyson hair tool and car brakes. Some of the loans charged interest, but she said that even then she preferred this form of borrowing because it was clear how much she would pay and when.
“With a credit card, you can swipe it all day long and be like, ‘Wait, what did I just get myself into?’” said Greco, a Denver resident. “Whereas with Affirm, it’s giving you these clear-cut numbers where you can see, ‘OK, this makes sense’ or ‘This doesn’t make sense.’”
Greco, who was introduced to The New York Times by Affirm, said pay-later loans helped her avoid credit card debt, with which she previously had trouble.
But not all consumers use pay-later options carefully. A report from the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau this year found that nearly 43% of pay-later users had overdrawn a bank account in the previous 12 months, compared with 17% of nonusers.
“This is just a more vulnerable portion of the population,” said Ed deHaan, a researcher at Stanford University.
In a paper published last year, deHaan and three other scholars found that within a month of first using pay-later loans, people became more likely to experience overdrafts and to start accruing credit card late fees.
Financial advisers who work with low-income Americans say more clients are using pay-later loans.
Barbara L. Martinez, a financial counselor in Chicago who works at Heartland Alliance, a nonprofit group, said many of her clients used cash advances to cover pay-later loans. When paychecks arrive, they don’t have enough to cover bills, forcing them to turn to more pay-later loans.
“It is not that the product is bad,” she added, but “it can get out of control really fast and cause a lot of damage that could be prevented.”
Briana Gordley learned about pay-later products in college. She was working part time and couldn’t get approved for a credit card, but pay-later providers were eager to extend her credit. She started falling behind when her work hours were reduced. Eventually, family and friends helped her repay the debts.
Gordley, who testified about her experience last year in a listening session hosted by the Senate, now works on consumer finance issues for Texas Appleseed, a progressive policy organization. She said pay-later loans could be an important source of credit for communities that lacked access to traditional loans. She still uses them occasionally for larger purchases.
But she said companies and regulators needed to make sure that borrowers could afford the debt they were taking on. “If we’re going to create these products and build out these systems for people, we also just have to have some checks and balances in place.”
The Truth in Lending Act of 1968 requires credit card companies and other lenders to disclose interest rates and fees and provides borrowers with various protections, including the ability to dispute charges. But the act applies only to loans with more than four payment installments, effectively excluding many pay-later loans.
Many such loans also aren’t reported to credit agencies. As a result, consumers could have multiple loans with Klarna, Afterpay and Affirm without the companies knowing about the other debts.
“It’s a huge blind spot right now, and we all know that,” said Liz Pagel, a senior vice president at TransUnion who oversees the company’s consumer lending business.
TransUnion and other major credit bureaus and pay-later companies all say they are supportive of more reporting.
But there are practical hurdles. The credit-rating system rates borrowers more highly for having longer-term loans, including long-standing credit card accounts. Each pay-later purchase qualifies as a separate loan. As a result, those loans could lower the scores of borrowers even if they repay them on time.
Pagel said TransUnion had created a new reporting system for the loans. Other credit bureaus, such as Experian and Equifax, are doing the same.
Pay-later firms say they are reporting certain loans, particularly ones with longer terms. But most are not reporting and won’t commit to reporting loans with just four payments.
That worries economists who say they are particularly concerned about how such loans will play out when the economy weakens and workers start losing their jobs.
Marco di Maggio, a Harvard Business School professor who has studied pay-later products, said that when times were tough, more people would use such loans for smaller expenses and get into trouble. “You only need one more shock to push people into default.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Credit card industry; Consumers; Borrowing; Purchasing; Pandemics; Consumer credit; Credit bureaus; Shopping; Interest rates; Debt; Loans; Credit cards; Nonprofit organizations; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Credit card industry Consumers Borrowing Consumer credit Credit bureaus Interest rates Debt Loans Credit cards Grocery stores

Location: Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Affirm Inc; United States; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Shopping And Retail; E Commerce; Truth In Lending Act (1968); Education (K 12); Transunion Llc; Afterpay Touch Group Ltd; Texas Appleseed; Poverty; Sephora; United States Economy; Senate; Banking And Financial Institutions; Fines (Penalties); Income; Consumer Behavior; Credit Scores; Holidays And Special Occasions; Politics And Government; Interest Rates; Credit And Debt; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Home Depot Inc; Supermarkets And Grocery Stores; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Klarna Ab; Personal Finances; Stockholm (Sweden); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Part Time Employment; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Texas; Bank Of New York Mellon Corporation; Experian Plc; Harvard Business School; Labor And Jobs; Payday Loans; Equifax Inc; Stanford University; Walmart Stores Inc; Credit Cards; Federal Reserve Bank Of New York; Business; Colleges And Universities; Chicago (Ill); New York Times; Wells Fargo & Company; Age, Chronological

Title: Americans May Be Taking on Too Much Pay-Later ‘Phantom Debt’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-22T00:01:13Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2904423888

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/americans-may-be-taking-on-too-much-pay-later/docview/2904423888/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

When Money Is Tight, Points Bridge the Gap: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Holman, Jordyn; Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-money-is-tight-points-bridge-gap/docview/2899582809/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The programs and the incentives that come with them will be critical for retailers hoping to attract cash-strapped customers over the next month.
Chrissy West is taking a new approach to her Christmas shopping this year. When buying gifts for her family, she plans to finance them by cashing in her Ulta loyalty points.
A makeup aficionado who enjoys buying lip gloss and blush, Ms. West has racked up hundreds of loyalty points at Ulta, the beauty retailer. During a shopping haul in September, she redeemed over 800 points, which brought an $ 89 bill down to $ 57.
Ms. West has focused on spending less money this year, and using her loyalty points is the way she plans to actually do that during the holiday shopping season. She has 233 points left.
"I would just use my points on the gifts for my sisters because I kind of have all the products that I want," said Ms. West, a 23-year-old graduate student in Tallahassee, Fla. "I would like to use it to the point where it's almost free, but because I have so little it's just going to be a discount."
Ms. West is not alone in her approach. This holiday season, 39 percent of shoppers plan to use rewards and cash-back offers to buy gifts for others, according to a PayPal survey released in November. Nearly the same proportion of people said they would use their rewards points on items for themselves.
Retailers are taking notice. These programs and the incentives that come with them will be critical to attracting shoppers, who are slowing their overall spending and holding out for deals before buying. Stores recruit customers into their loyalty programs throughout the year, but the programs become a major attraction at the end of the year -- when retailers can make up to a third of their annual revenue. Retailers are also spending the year testing different incentive strategies, but they roll them out en masse during December.
Customers see the benefit in these programs, with the money they spend getting rewarded through free products or other perks. One in four shoppers feels that buying gifts using rewards is getting something for free, according to the PayPal survey.
"This is the time of year that brands put on their most aggressive loyalty tactic," said Stephanie Meltzer-Paul, a Mastercard executive who helps retail clients shape their loyalty programs.
The shoe retailer DSW, with 27 million members, is among the companies leaning into their loyalty programs. On Black Friday and Cyber Monday, it offered a four-piece travel kit as a gift with purchase -- an incentive it does just five times a year. Online, it's pushing a "12 days of V.I.P. deals" program to loyalty shoppers.
"Those extra incentives to get them to convert give them validation that they're making the right choice, but doing so in a fun experience," Julie Roy, DSW's chief marketing officer, said in an interview.
Many retailers, like Sephora, are turning the act of earning points into a game. The beauty retailer is allowing loyalty members to rack up points by performing certain tasks, such as signing up for text alerts or buying something online and picking it up in a store.
Ulta, which has among the biggest U.S. retail loyalty programs, with 42 million members, knows that people like the feeling of accumulating points. Fifty-six percent of shoppers told Ulta that earning points was a main reason they shopped during Black Friday and Cyber Monday.
Typically, Ulta offers shoppers points that are equal to the price of the item. Spend $ 80, get 80 points. During promotions this holiday season, it is offering customers the opportunity to boost their points by five times the amount of a purchase. So that $ 80 can now equal 400 points. The calculations can get complicated, though, and there are TikTok channels dedicated to decoding "Ulta math." For example, one creator explained in a video that if she bought beauty products on a day when Ulta was offering double points for purchases, she had money for a future purchase that would then feel free to her.
"People are genuinely trying to maximize volume in very different ways, and the points are a critical enabler of that," Michelle Crossan-Matos, Ulta's chief marketing officer, said in an interview.
Kim Spader, a 44-year-old secretary at a middle school in Mystic, Conn., in October posted a video on TikTok about how she combined her 10,000 Ulta points with a 20 percent coupon for a shopping spree worth $ 800 in October. The video has been viewed more than 2.5 million times.
Ms. Spader, who last year was paid by Ulta to create content on social media but is not currently compensated by the retailer, estimated that she spent $ 1,200 on makeup, hair care and skin care starting in April, much of which she used when creating content. She boosted her overall point count by timing her purchases of certain brands or products to when Sephora offered deals that would multiply her points.
"You don't want to buy a product just because there is a point multiplier," Ms. Spader said. "Don't put it on credit cards for the sake of buying it. But if you're buying the product anyway, and can earn more points quickly, it's a great way to get 'free' makeup."
Toward the end of the year, shoppers also race to secure a higher tier of status within many loyalty programs. Generally companies boost incentives for members who hold higher status. For example, Ulta loyalty members of the highest tier earn 1.5 points for every purchase they make. Each year, shoppers look to secure and boost their status, before the process starts all over again come January. Recognizing this, Ulta is not shy about sending emails to remind members that they are close to reaching a new tier -- if they spend more.
"People are obsessed about elevating in their tiers," Ms. Crossan-Matos said. "They feel like they're getting extra benefits. People love the concept of building points so that when they do see something that they absolutely love that might be a stretch cash-wise, that they can invest in themselves or invest in gifts."
Of course, encouraging shoppers to spend is beneficial to Ulta, where the end-of-the-year shopping period brings in nearly a third of its annual sales.
For retailers, the holidays can be an opportune time to turn customers into new loyalty members, hoping the programs will get customers to return in the coming year.
"If you get somebody to redeem a reward, they'll spend more later," said Kate Hogenson, a principal consultant at the Mallett Group, a brand-loyalty consulting firm. "Ulta has the highest penetration of any loyalty program out there, and 95 percent of its revenue is attached to a loyalty member."
When Ulta offered a 20 percent discount on its Dyson Airwrap hair dryer (which retails for $ 600), it saw a spike in sales as people cashed in their points to purchase it. During major sales like these, shoppers go to TikTok to giddily share the moment when their bill dropped precipitously after their points are redeemed at the register.
"We see a number of loyalty programs, including ours, that people really enjoy being able to share what they're doing with their loyalty points and being rewarded for it," Ms. Crossan-Matos said. "Gamification" -- adding competitive elements to the shopping process -- "on its own is not that exciting," she added. "It's when you feel like you're part of a community that is celebrating who you are, what you're doing and it infuses more points and rewards for you."
Ms. West, the graduate student in Florida, has posted on TikTok about her Ulta purchases and the free black Fenty tote bag that she got when she made a purchase. Still, she knows there's always room to be savvier.
"Because of the way I spent this year, I have a new strategy for next year," Ms. West said. "Don't spend all my points in one go."
Photograph Thirty-nine percent of shoppers plan to use rewards and cash-back offers to buy gifts, and about as many plan to use points to treat themselves, according to a PayPal survey. (B1); When Ulta, above, offered a 20 percent discount on its Dyson Airwrap hair dryer, far right, which retails for $ 600, it saw a spike in sales as people cashed in points to purchase it. Many retailers, like Sephora, are turning the act of earning points into a game. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Retail stores; Hair; Shopping; Purchasing; Loyalty programs; Graduate students; Incentives

Business indexing term: Subject: Retail stores Loyalty programs Incentives

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/09/business/holiday-shopping-loyalty-programs.html

Title: When Money Is Tight, Points Bridge the Gap:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899582809

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-money-is-tight-points-bridge-gap/docview/2899582809/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 9, 2023

Last updated: 2024-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Money, Ego and Fear Lit A.I.'s Fuse: [Series]

Author: Metz, Cade; Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Metz, Cade; Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-money-ego-fear-lit-i-s-fuse/docview/2896672295/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk celebrated his 44th birthday in July 2015 at a three-day party thrown by his wife at a California wine country resort dotted with cabins. It was family and friends only, with children racing around the upscale property in Napa Valley.
This was years before Twitter became X and Tesla had a profitable year. Mr. Musk and his wife, Talulah Riley -- an actress who played a beautiful but dangerous robot on HBO's science fiction series "Westworld" -- were a year from throwing in the towel on their second marriage. Larry Page, a party guest, was still the chief executive of Google. And artificial intelligence had pierced the public consciousness only a few years before, when it was used to identify cats on YouTube -- with 16 percent accuracy.
A.I. was the big topic of conversation when Mr. Musk and Mr. Page sat down near a firepit beside a swimming pool after dinner the first night. The two billionaires had been friends for more than a decade, and Mr. Musk sometimes joked that he occasionally crashed on Mr. Page's sofa after a night playing video games.
But the tone that clear night soon turned contentious as the two debated whether artificial intelligence would ultimately elevate humanity or destroy it.
As the discussion stretched into the chilly hours, it grew intense, and some of the more than 30 partyers gathered closer to listen. Mr. Page, hampered for more than a decade by an unusual ailment in his vocal cords, described his vision of a digital utopia in a whisper. Humans would eventually merge with artificially intelligent machines, he said. One day there would be many kinds of intelligence competing for resources, and the best would win.
If that happens, Mr. Musk said, we're doomed. The machines will destroy humanity.
With a rasp of frustration, Mr. Page insisted his utopia should be pursued. Finally he called Mr. Musk a "specieist," a person who favors humans over the digital life-forms of the future.
That insult, Mr. Musk said later, was "the last straw."
Many in the crowd seemed gobsmacked, if amused, as they dispersed for the night, and considered it just another one of those esoteric debates that often break out at Silicon Valley parties.
But eight years later, the argument between the two men seems prescient. The question of whether artificial intelligence will elevate the world or destroy it -- or at least inflict grave damage -- has framed an ongoing debate among Silicon Valley founders, chatbot users, academics, legislators and regulators about whether the technology should be controlled or set free.
That debate has pitted some of the world's richest men against one another: Mr. Musk, Mr. Page, Mark Zuckerberg of Meta, the tech investor Peter Thiel, Satya Nadella of Microsoft and Sam Altman of OpenAI. All have fought for a piece of the business -- which one day could be worth trillions of dollars -- and the power to shape it.
At the heart of this competition is a brain-stretching paradox. The people who say they are most worried about A.I. are among the most determined to create it and enjoy its riches. They have justified their ambition with their strong belief that they alone can keep A.I. from endangering Earth.
Mr. Musk and Mr. Page stopped speaking soon after the party that summer. A few weeks later, Mr. Musk dined with Mr. Altman, who was then running a tech incubator, and several researchers in a private room at the Rosewood hotel in Menlo Park, Calif., a favored deal-making spot close to the venture capital offices of Sand Hill Road.
That dinner led to the creation of a start-up called OpenAI later in the year. Backed by hundreds of millions of dollars from Mr. Musk and other funders, the lab promised to protect the world from Mr. Page's vision.
Thanks to its ChatGPT chatbot, OpenAI has fundamentally changed the technology industry and has introduced the world to the risks and potential of artificial intelligence. OpenAI is valued at more than $ 80 billion, according to two people familiar with the company's latest funding round, though Mr. Musk and Mr. Altman's partnership didn't make it. The two have since stopped speaking.
"There is disagreement, mistrust, egos," Mr. Altman said. "The closer people are to being pointed in the same direction, the more contentious the disagreements are. You see this in sects and religious orders. There are bitter fights between the closest people."
Last month, that infighting came to OpenAI's boardroom. Rebel board members tried to force out Mr. Altman because, they believed, they could no longer trust him to build A.I. that would benefit humanity. Over five chaotic days OpenAI looked as if it were going to fall apart, until the board -- pressured by giant investors and employees who threatened to follow Mr. Altman out the door -- backed down.
The drama inside OpenAI gave the world its first glimpse of the bitter feuds among those who will determine the future of A.I.
But years before OpenAI's near meltdown, there was a little-publicized but ferocious competition in Silicon Valley for control of the technology that is now quickly reshaping the world, from how children are taught to how wars are fought. The New York Times spoke with more than 80 executives, scientists and entrepreneurs, including two people who attended Mr. Musk's birthday party in 2015, to tell that story of ambition, fear and money.
The Birth of DeepMind
Five years before the Napa Valley party and two before the cat breakthrough on YouTube, Demis Hassabis, a 34-year-old neuroscientist, walked into a cocktail party at Peter Thiel's San Francisco townhouse and realized he'd hit pay dirt. There in Mr. Thiel's living room, overlooking the city's Palace of Fine Arts and a swan pond, was a chess board. Dr. Hassabis had once been the second-best player in the world in the under-14 category.
"I was preparing for that meeting for a year," Dr. Hassabis said. "I thought that would be my unique hook in: I knew that he loved chess."
In 2010, Dr. Hassabis and two colleagues, who all lived in Britain, were looking for money to start building "artificial general intelligence," or A.G.I., a machine that could do anything the brain could do. At the time, few people were interested in A.I. After a half century of research, the artificial intelligence field had failed to deliver anything remotely close to the human brain.
Still, some scientists and thinkers had become fixated on the downsides of A.I. Many, like the three young men from Britain, had a connection to Eliezer Yudkowsky, an internet philosopher and self-taught A.I. researcher. Mr. Yudkowsky was a leader in a community of people who called themselves Rationalists or, in later years, effective altruists.
They believed that A.I. could find a cure for cancer or solve climate change, but they worried that A.I. bots might do things their creators had not intended. If the machines became more intelligent than humans, the Rationalists argued, the machines could turn on their creators.
Mr. Thiel had become enormously wealthy through an early investment in Facebook and through his work with Mr. Musk in the early days of PayPal. He had developed a fascination with the singularity, a trope of science fiction that describes the moment when intelligent technology can no longer be controlled by humanity.
With funding from Mr. Thiel, Mr. Yudkowsky had expanded his A.I. lab and created an annual conference on the singularity. Years before, one of Dr. Hassabis's two colleagues had met Mr. Yudkowsky, and he snagged them speaking spots at the conference, ensuring they'd be invited to Mr. Thiel's party.
Mr. Yudkowsky introduced Dr. Hassabis to Mr. Thiel. Dr. Hassabis assumed that lots of people at the party would be trying to squeeze their host for money. His strategy was to arrange another meeting. There was a deep tension between the bishop and the knight, he told Mr. Thiel. The two pieces carried the same value, but the best players understood that their strengths were vastly different.
It worked. Charmed, Mr. Thiel invited the group back the next day, where they gathered in the kitchen. Their host had just finished his morning workout and was still sweating in a shiny tracksuit. A butler handed him a Diet Coke. The three made their pitch, and soon Mr. Thiel and his venture capital firm agreed to put 1.4 million British pounds (roughly $ 2.25 million) into their start-up. He was their first major investor.
They named their company DeepMind, a nod to "deep learning," a way for A.I. systems to learn skills by analyzing large amounts of data; to neuroscience; and to the Deep Thought supercomputer from the sci-fi novel "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy." By the fall of 2010, they were building their dream machine. They wholeheartedly believed that because they understood the risks, they were uniquely positioned to protect the world.
"I don't see this as a contradictory position," said Mustafa Suleyman, one of the three DeepMind founders. "There are huge benefits to come from these technologies. The goal is not to eliminate them or pause their development. The goal is to mitigate the downsides."
Having won over Mr. Thiel, Dr. Hassabis worked his way into Mr. Musk's orbit. About two years later, they met at a conference organized by Mr. Thiel's investment fund, which had also put money into Mr. Musk's company SpaceX. Dr. Hassabis secured a tour of SpaceX headquarters. Afterward, with rocket hulls hanging from the ceiling, the two men lunched in the cafeteria and talked.
Mr. Musk explained that his plan was to colonize Mars to escape overpopulation and other dangers on Earth. Dr. Hassabis replied that the plan would work -- so long as superintelligent machines didn't follow and destroy humanity on Mars, too.
Mr. Musk was speechless. He hadn't thought about that particular danger. Mr. Musk soon invested in DeepMind alongside Mr. Thiel so he could be closer to the creation of this technology.
Flush with cash, DeepMind hired researchers who specialized in neural networks, complex algorithms created in the image of the human brain. A neural network is essentially a giant mathematical system that spends days, weeks or even months identifying patterns in large amounts of digital data. First developed in the 1950s, these systems could learn to handle tasks on their own. After analyzing names and addresses scribbled on hundreds of envelopes, for instance, they could read handwritten text.
DeepMind took the concept further. It built a system that could learn to play classic Atari games like Space Invaders, Pong and Breakout to illustrate what was possible.
This got the attention of another Silicon Valley powerhouse, Google, and specifically Larry Page. He saw a demonstration of Deep Mind's machine playing Atari games. He wanted in.
The Talent Auction
In the fall of 2012, Geoffrey Hinton, a 64-year-old professor at the University of Toronto, and two graduate students published a research paper that showed the world what A.I. could do. They trained a neural network to recognize common objects like flowers, dogs and cars.
Scientists were surprised by the accuracy of the technology built by Dr. Hinton and his students. One who took particular notice was Yu Kai, an A.I. researcher who had met Dr. Hinton at a research conference and had recently started working for Baidu, the giant Chinese internet company. Baidu offered Dr. Hinton and his students $ 12 million to join the company in Beijing, according to three people familiar with the offer.
Dr. Hinton turned Baidu down, but the money got his attention.
The Cambridge-educated British expatriate had spent most of his career in academia, except for occasional stints at Microsoft and Google, and was not especially driven by money. But he had a neurodivergent child, and the money would mean financial security.
"We did not know how much we were worth," Dr. Hinton said. He consulted lawyers and experts on acquisitions and came up with a plan: "We would organize an auction, and we would sell ourselves." The auction would take place during an annual A.I. conference at the Harrah's hotel and casino on Lake Tahoe.
Big Tech took notice. Google, Microsoft, Baidu and other companies were beginning to believe that neural networks were a path to machines that could not only see, but hear, write, talk and -- eventually -- think.
Mr. Page had seen similar technology at Google Brain, his company's A.I. lab, and he thought Dr. Hinton's research could elevate his scientists' work. He gave Alan Eustace, Google's senior vice president of engineering, what amounted to a blank check to hire any A.I. expertise he needed.
Mr. Eustace and Jeff Dean, who led the Brain lab, flew to Lake Tahoe and took Dr. Hinton and his students out to dinner at a steakhouse inside the hotel the night before the auction. The smell of old cigarettes was overpowering, Dr. Dean recalled. They made the case for coming to work at Google.
The next day, Dr. Hinton ran the auction from his hotel room. Because of an old back injury, he rarely sat down. He turned a trash can upside down on a table, put his laptop on top and watched the bids roll in over the next two days.
Google made an offer. So did Microsoft. DeepMind quickly bowed out as the price went up. The industry giants pushed the bids to $ 20 million and then $ 25 million, according to documents detailing the auction. As the price passed $ 30 million, Microsoft quit, but it rejoined the bidding at $ 37 million.
"We felt like we were in a movie," Dr. Hinton said.
Then Microsoft dropped out a second time. Only Baidu and Google were left, and they pushed the bidding to $ 42 million, $ 43 million. Finally, at $ 44 million, Dr. Hinton and his students stopped the auction. The bids were still climbing, but they wanted to work for Google. And the money was staggering.
It was an unmistakable sign that deep-pocketed companies were determined to buy the most talented A.I. researchers -- which was not lost on Dr. Hassabis at DeepMind. He had always told his employees that DeepMind would remain an independent company. That was, he believed, the best way to ensure its technology didn't turn into something dangerous.
But as Big Tech entered the talent race, he decided he had no choice: It was time to sell.
By the end of 2012, Google and Facebook were angling to acquire the London lab, according to three people familiar with the matter. Dr. Hassabis and his co-founders insisted on two conditions: No DeepMind technology could be used for military purposes, and its A.G.I. technology must be overseen by an independent board of technologists and ethicists.
Google offered $ 650 million. Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook offered a bigger payout to DeepMind's founders, but would not agree to the conditions. DeepMind sold to Google.
Mr. Zuckerberg was determined to build an A.I. lab of his own. He hired Yann LeCun, a French computer scientist who had also done pioneering A.I. research, to run it. A year after Dr. Hinton's auction, Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. LeCun flew to Lake Tahoe for the same A.I. conference. While padding around a suite at the Harrah's casino in his socks, Mr. Zuckerberg personally interviewed top researchers, who were soon offered millions of dollars in salary and stock.
A.I. was once laughed off. Now the richest men in Silicon Valley were shelling out billions to keep from being left behind.
The Lost Ethics Board
When Mr. Musk invested in DeepMind, he broke his own informal rule -- that he would not invest in any company he didn't run himself. The downsides of his decision were already apparent when, only a month or so after his birthday spat with Mr. Page, he again found himself face to face with his former friend and fellow billionaire.
The occasion was the first meeting of DeepMind's ethics board, on Aug. 14, 2015. The board had been set up at the insistence of the start-up's founders to ensure that their technology did no harm after the sale. The members convened in a conference room just outside Mr. Musk's office at SpaceX, with a window looking out onto his rocket factory, according to three people familiar with the meeting.
But that's where Mr. Musk's control ended. When Google bought DeepMind, it bought the whole thing. Mr. Musk was out. Financially he had come out ahead, but he was unhappy.
Three Google executives now firmly in control of DeepMind were there: Mr. Page; Sergey Brin, a Google co-founder and Tesla investor; and Eric Schmidt, Google's chairman. Among the other attendees were Reid Hoffman, another PayPal founder, and Toby Ord, an Australian philosopher studying "existential risk."
The DeepMind founders reported that they were pushing ahead with their work, but that they were aware the technology carried serious risks.
Mr. Suleyman, the DeepMind co-founder, gave a presentation called "The Pitchforkers Are Coming." A.I. could lead to an explosion in disinformation, he told the board. He fretted that as the technology replaced countless jobs in the coming years, the public would accuse Google of stealing their livelihoods. Google would need to share its wealth with the millions who could no longer find work and provide a "universal basic income," he argued.
Mr. Musk agreed. But it was pretty clear that his Google guests were not prepared to embark on a redistribution of (their) wealth. Mr. Schmidt said he thought the worries were completely overblown. In his usual whisper, Mr. Page agreed. A.I. would create more jobs than it took away, he argued.
Eight months later, DeepMind had a breakthrough that stunned the A.I community and the world. A DeepMind machine called AlphaGo beat one of the world's best players at the ancient game of Go. The game, streamed over the internet, was watched by 200 million people across the globe. Most researchers had assumed that A.I. needed another 10 years to muster the ingenuity to do that.
Rationalists, effective altruists and others who worried about the risks of A.I. claimed the computer's win validated their fears.
"This is another indication that A.I. is progressing faster than even many experts anticipated," Victoria Krakovna, who would soon join DeepMind as an "A.I. safety" researcher, wrote in a blog post.
DeepMind's founders were increasingly worried about what Google would do with their inventions. In 2017, they tried to break away from the company. Google responded by increasing the salaries and stock award packages of the DeepMind founders and their staff. They stayed put.
The ethics board never had a second meeting.
The Breakup
Convinced that Mr. Page's optimistic view of A.I. was dead wrong, and angry at his loss of DeepMind, Mr. Musk built his own lab.
OpenAI was founded in late 2015, just a few months after he met with Sam Altman at the Rosewood hotel in Silicon Valley. Mr. Musk pumped money into the lab, and his former PayPal buddies, Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Thiel, came along for the ride. The three men and others pledged to put $ 1 billion into the project, which Mr. Altman, who was 30 at the time, would help run. To get them started, they poached Ilya Sutskever from Google. (Dr. Sutskever was one of the graduate students Google "bought" in Dr. Hinton's auction.)
Initially, Mr. Musk wanted to operate OpenAI as a nonprofit, free from the economic incentives that were driving Google and other corporations. But by the time Google wowed the tech community with its Go stunt, Mr. Musk was changing his mind about how it should be run. He desperately wanted OpenAI to invent something that would capture the world's imagination and close the gap with Google, but it wasn't getting the job done as a nonprofit.
In late 2017, he hatched a plan to wrest control of the lab from Mr. Altman and the other founders and transform it into a commercial operation that would join forces with Tesla and rely on supercomputers the car company was developing, according to four people familiar with the matter.
When Mr. Altman and others pushed back, Mr. Musk quit and said he would focus on his own A.I. work at Tesla. In February 2018, he announced his departure to OpenAI's staff on the top floor of the start-up's offices in a converted truck factory, three people who attended the meeting said. When he said that OpenAI needed to move faster, one researcher retorted at the meeting that Mr. Musk was being reckless.
Mr. Musk called the researcher a "jackass" and stormed out, taking his deep pockets with him.
OpenAI suddenly needed new financing in a hurry. Mr. Altman flew to Sun Valley for a conference and ran into Satya Nadella, Microsoft's chief executive. A tie-up seemed natural. Mr. Altman knew Microsoft's chief technology officer, Kevin Scott. Microsoft had bought LinkedIn from Mr. Hoffman, an OpenAI board member. Mr. Nadella told Mr. Scott to get it done. The deal closed in 2019.
Mr. Altman and OpenAI had formed a for-profit company under the original nonprofit, they had $ 1 billion in fresh capital, and Microsoft had a new way to build artificial intelligence into its vast cloud computing service.
Not everyone inside OpenAI was happy.
Dario Amodei, a researcher with ties to the effective altruist community, had been on hand at the Rosewood hotel when OpenAI was born. Dr. Amodei, who endlessly twisted his curls between his fingers as he talked, was leading the lab's efforts to build a neural network called a large language model that could learn from enormous amounts of digital text. By analyzing countless Wikipedia articles, digital books and message boards, it could generate text on its own. It also had the unfortunate habit of making things up. It was called GPT-3, and it was released in the summer of 2020.
Researchers inside OpenAI, Google and other companies thought this rapidly improving technology could be a path to A.G.I.
But Dr. Amodei was unhappy about the Microsoft deal because he thought it was taking OpenAI in a really commercial direction. He and other researchers went to the board to try to push Mr. Altman out, according to five people familiar with the matter. After they failed, they left. Like DeepMind's founders before them, they worried that their new corporate overlords would favor commercial interests over safety.
In 2021, the group of about 15 engineers and scientists created a new lab called Anthropic. The plan was to build A.I. the way the effective altruists thought it should done -- with very tight controls.
"There was no attempt to remove Sam Altman from OpenAI by the co-founders of Anthropic," said an Anthropic spokeswoman, Sally Aldous. "The co-founders themselves came to the conclusion that they wished to depart OpenAI to start their own company, made this known to OpenAI's leadership, and over several weeks negotiated an exit on mutually agreeable terms."
Anthropic accepted a $ 4 billion investment from Amazon and another $ 2 billion from Google two years later.
The Reveal
After OpenAI received another $ 2 billion from Microsoft, Mr. Altman and another senior executive, Greg Brockman, visited Bill Gates at his sprawling mansion on the shores of Lake Washington, outside Seattle. The Microsoft founder was no longer involved in the company day to day but kept in regular touch with its executives.
Over dinner, Mr. Gates told them he doubted that large language models could work. He would stay skeptical, he said, until the technology performed a task that required critical thinking -- passing an A.P. biology test, for instance.
Five months later, on Aug. 24, 2022, Mr. Altman and Mr. Brockman returned and brought along an OpenAI researcher named Chelsea Voss. Ms. Voss had been a medalist in an international biology Olympiad as a high schooler. Mr. Nadella and other Microsoft executives were there, too.
On a huge digital display on a stand outside Mr. Gates's living room, the OpenAI crew presented a technology called GPT-4.
Mr. Brockman gave the system a multiple-choice advanced biology test, and Ms. Voss graded the answers. The first question involved polar molecules, groups of atoms with a positive charge at one end and a negative charge at the other. The system answered correctly and explained its choice. "It was only trained to provide an answer," Mr. Brockman said. "The conversational nature kind of fell out, almost magically." In other words, it was doing things they hadn't really designed it to do.
There were 60 questions. GPT-4 got only one answer wrong.
Mr. Gates sat up in his chair, his eyes opened wide. In 1980, he had a similar reaction when researchers showed him the graphical user interface that became the basis for the modern personal computer. He thought GPT was that revolutionary.
By October, Microsoft was adding the technology across its online services, including its Bing search engine. And two months later OpenAI released its ChatGPT chatbot, which is now used by 100 million people every week.
OpenAI had beat the effective altruists at Anthropic. Mr. Page's optimists at Google scurried to release their own chatbot, Bard, but were widely perceived to have lost the race to OpenAI. Three months after ChatGPT's release, Google stock was down 11 percent. Mr. Musk was nowhere to be found.
But it was just the beginning.
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Susan Beachy contributed research.
Illustration \This article appeared in print on page A1, A14, A15.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Startups; Debates; Chatbots; Science fiction & fantasy; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; Napa Valley; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

People: Musk, Elon; Page, Larry; Altman, Sam; Thiel, Peter

Company / organization: Name: Google DeepMind; NAICS: 513210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/03/technology/ai-openai-musk-page-altman.html

Title: How Money, Ego and Fear Lit A.I.'s Fuse:   [Series ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 4, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2896672295

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-money-ego-fear-lit-i-s-fuse/docview/2896672295/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ego, Fear and Money: How the Artificial Intelligence Fuse Was Lit

Author: Metz, Cade; Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike

Publication info: Metz, Cade; Weise, Karen; Grant, Nico; Isaac, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ego-fear-money-how-artificial-intelligence-fuse/docview/2896494555/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — Elon Musk celebrated his 44th birthday in July 2015 at a three-day party thrown by his wife at a California wine country resort dotted with cabins. It was family and friends only, with children racing around the upscale property in Napa Valley.
This was years before Twitter became X, and Tesla had a profitable year. Musk and his wife, Talulah Riley, were a year from throwing in the towel on their second marriage. Larry Page, a party guest, was still CEO of Google. And artificial intelligence had pierced the public consciousness only a few years before, when it was used to identify cats on YouTube — with 16% accuracy.
AI was the big topic of conversation when Musk and Page sat down near a fire pit beside a swimming pool after dinner the first night. The two billionaires had been friends for more than a decade.
But the tone that clear night soon turned contentious as the two debated whether AI would ultimately elevate humanity or destroy it.
As the discussion stretched into the chilly hours, it grew intense, and some of the more than 30 partyers gathered closer to listen. Page, hampered for more than a decade by an unusual ailment in his vocal cords, described his vision of a digital utopia in a whisper. Humans would eventually merge with artificially intelligent machines, he said. One day there would be many kinds of intelligence competing for resources, and the best would win.
If that happens, Musk said, we’re doomed. The machines will destroy humanity.
With a rasp of frustration, Page insisted his utopia should be pursued. Finally, he called Musk a “specieist,” a person who favors humans over the digital life-forms of the future.
That insult, Musk said later, was “the last straw.”
Eight years later, the argument between the two men seems prescient. The question of whether AI will elevate the world or destroy it — or at least inflict grave damage — has framed an ongoing debate among Silicon Valley founders, chatbot users, academics, legislators and regulators about whether the technology should be controlled or set free.
That debate has pitted some of the world’s richest men against one another: Musk, Page, Mark Zuckerberg of Meta, tech investor Peter Thiel, Satya Nadella of Microsoft and Sam Altman of OpenAI. All have fought for a piece of the business and the power to shape it.
At the heart of this competition is a brain-stretching paradox. The people who say they are most worried about AI are among the most determined to create it and enjoy its riches. They have justified their ambition with their strong belief that they alone can keep AI from endangering Earth.
Musk and Page stopped speaking soon after the party that summer. A few weeks later, Musk dined with Altman, who was then running a tech incubator, and several researchers in a private room at the Rosewood hotel in Menlo Park, California.
That dinner led to the creation of a startup called OpenAI later in the year. Backed by hundreds of millions of dollars from Musk and other funders, the lab promised to protect the world from Page’s vision.
Thanks to its ChatGPT chatbot, OpenAI has fundamentally changed the technology industry and has introduced the world to the risks and potential of artificial intelligence. OpenAI is valued at more than $80 billion, according to two people familiar with the company’s latest funding round, although Musk and Altman’s partnership didn’t make it. The two have since stopped speaking.
“There is disagreement, mistrust, egos,” Altman said. “The closer people are to being pointed in the same direction, the more contentious the disagreements are. You see this in sects and religious orders. There are bitter fights between the closest people.”
Last month, that infighting came to OpenAI’s boardroom. Rebel board members tried to force out Altman because, they believed, they could no longer trust him to build AI that would benefit humanity. Over five chaotic days, OpenAI looked as if it were going to fall apart, until the board — pressured by giant investors and employees who threatened to follow Altman out the door — backed down.
The drama inside OpenAI gave the world its first glimpse of the bitter feuds among those who will determine the future of AI.
But years before OpenAI’s near meltdown, there was a little-publicized but ferocious competition in Silicon Valley for control of the technology that is now quickly reshaping the world. The New York Times spoke with more than 80 executives, scientists and entrepreneurs, including two people who attended Musk’s birthday party in 2015, to tell that story of ambition, fear and money.
The Birth of DeepMind
Five years before the Napa Valley party and two before the cat breakthrough on YouTube, Demis Hassabis, a 34-year-old neuroscientist, walked into a cocktail party at Thiel’s San Francisco town house and realized he had hit pay dirt. There in Thiel’s living room was a chessboard. Hassabis had once been the second-best player in the world in the under-14 category.
“I was preparing for that meeting for a year,” Hassabis said. “I thought that would be my unique hook in: I knew that he loved chess.”
In 2010, Hassabis and two colleagues, who all lived in Britain, were looking for money to start building “artificial general intelligence,” or AGI, a machine that could do anything the brain could do. At the time, few people were interested in AI.
Still, some scientists and thinkers had become fixated on the downsides of AI. Many, including the three young men from Britain, had a connection to Eliezer Yudkowsky, an internet philosopher and self-taught AI researcher. Yudkowsky was a leader in a community of people who called themselves Rationalists or, in later years, effective altruists.
Thiel had become enormously wealthy through an early investment in Facebook and through his work with Musk in the early days of PayPal. He had developed a fascination with the singularity, a trope of science fiction that describes the moment when intelligent technology can no longer be controlled by humanity.
With funding from Thiel, Yudkowsky had expanded his AI lab and created an annual conference on the singularity. Years before, one of Hassabis’ two colleagues had met Yudkowsky, and he snagged them speaking spots at the conference, ensuring they’d be invited to Thiel’s party.
Yudkowsky introduced Hassabis to Thiel.
Charmed, Thiel invited the group back the next day. The three made their pitch, and soon Thiel and his venture capital firm agreed to put 1.4 million British pounds (roughly $2.25 million) into their startup. He was their first major investor.
They named their company DeepMind, a nod to “deep learning,” a way for AI systems to learn skills by analyzing large amounts of data; to neuroscience; and to the Deep Thought supercomputer from the sci-fi novel “The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.” By the fall of 2010, they were building their dream machine. They wholeheartedly believed that because they understood the risks, they were uniquely positioned to protect the world.
“I don’t see this as a contradictory position,” said Mustafa Suleyman, one of the three DeepMind founders. “There are huge benefits to come from these technologies. The goal is not to eliminate them or pause their development. The goal is to mitigate the downsides.”
Having won over Thiel, Hassabis worked his way into Musk’s orbit. About two years later, they met at a conference organized by Thiel’s investment fund, which had also put money into Musk’s company SpaceX. Hassabis secured a tour of SpaceX headquarters. Afterward, the two men lunched in the cafeteria and talked.
Musk explained that his plan was to colonize Mars to escape overpopulation and other dangers on Earth. Hassabis replied that the plan would work — so long as superintelligent machines didn’t follow and destroy humanity on Mars, too.
Musk was speechless. He hadn’t thought about that particular danger. Musk soon invested in DeepMind alongside Thiel.
Flush with cash, DeepMind hired researchers who specialized in neural networks, complex algorithms created in the image of the human brain. A neural network is essentially a giant mathematical system that spends days, weeks or even months identifying patterns in large amounts of digital data. First developed in the 1950s, these systems could learn to handle tasks on their own. After analyzing names and addresses scribbled on hundreds of envelopes, for instance, they could read handwritten text.
DeepMind took the concept further. It built a system that could learn to play classic Atari games to illustrate what was possible.
This got the attention of another Silicon Valley powerhouse, Google, and specifically Page.
The Talent Auction
In the fall of 2012, Geoffrey Hinton, a 64-year-old professor at the University of Toronto, and two graduate students published a research paper that showed the world what AI could do. They trained a neural network to recognize common objects such as flowers, dogs and cars.
Scientists were surprised by the accuracy of the technology built by Hinton and his students. One who took particular notice was Yu Kai, an AI researcher who had met Hinton at a research conference and had recently started working for Baidu, a giant Chinese internet company. Baidu offered Hinton and his students $12 million to join the company in Beijing, according to three people familiar with the offer.
Hinton turned Baidu down, but the money got his attention.
“We did not know how much we were worth,” Hinton said. He consulted lawyers and experts on acquisitions and came up with a plan: “We would organize an auction, and we would sell ourselves.” The auction would take place during an annual AI conference at the Harrah’s hotel and casino on Lake Tahoe.
Google made an offer. So did Microsoft. DeepMind quickly bowed out. The industry giants pushed the bids to $20 million and then $25 million. As the price passed $30 million, Microsoft quit, but it rejoined the bidding at $37 million.
Then Microsoft dropped out a second time. Only Baidu and Google were left, and they pushed the bidding to $42 million, $43 million. Finally, at $44 million, Hinton and his students stopped the auction. The bids were still climbing, but they wanted to work for Google. And the money was staggering.
It was an unmistakable sign that deep-pocketed companies were determined to buy the most talented A.I. researchers — which was not lost on Hassabis at DeepMind. He had always told his employees that DeepMind would remain an independent company. That was, he believed, the best way to ensure its technology didn’t turn into something dangerous.
But as Big Tech entered the talent race, he decided he had no choice: It was time to sell.
By the end of 2012, Google and Facebook were angling to acquire the London lab, according to three people familiar with the matter. Hassabis and his co-founders insisted on two conditions: No DeepMind technology could be used for military purposes, and its AGI technology must be overseen by an independent board of technologists and ethicists.
Google offered $650 million. Zuckerberg of Facebook offered a bigger payout to DeepMind’s founders but would not agree to the conditions. DeepMind sold to Google.
The Lost Ethics Board
When Musk invested in DeepMind, he broke his own informal rule — that he would not invest in any company he didn’t run himself. The downsides of his decision were already apparent when, only a month or so after his birthday spat with Page, he again found himself face to face with his former friend and fellow billionaire.
The occasion was the first meeting of DeepMind’s ethics board, on Aug. 14, 2015. The board had been set up at the insistence of the startup’s founders to ensure that their technology did no harm after the sale. The members convened in a conference room just outside Musk’s office at SpaceX, according to three people familiar with the meeting.
But that’s where Musk’s control ended. When Google bought DeepMind, it bought the whole thing. Musk was out.
Three Google executives now firmly in control of DeepMind were there: Page; Sergey Brin, a Google co-founder and Tesla investor; and Eric Schmidt, Google’s chair. Among the other attendees were Reid Hoffman, another PayPal founder; and Toby Ord, an Australian philosopher studying “existential risk.”
The DeepMind founders reported that they were pushing ahead with their work but that they were aware the technology carried serious risks.
Eight months later, DeepMind had a breakthrough that stunned the AI community and the world. A DeepMind machine called AlphaGo beat one of the world’s best players at the ancient game of Go. The game, streamed over the internet, was watched by 200 million people across the globe. Most researchers had assumed that AI needed another 10 years to muster the ingenuity to do that.
The Breakup
Convinced that Page’s optimistic view of AI was dead wrong, and angry at his loss of DeepMind, Musk built his own lab.
OpenAI was founded in late 2015.
In late 2017, he hatched a plan to wrest control of the lab from Altman and the other founders and transform it into a commercial operation that would join forces with Tesla and rely on supercomputers the car company was developing, according to four people familiar with the matter.
When Altman and others pushed back, Musk quit and said he would focus on his own AI work at Tesla. In February 2018, he announced his departure to OpenAI’s staff on the top floor of the startup’s offices in a converted truck factory, three people who attended the meeting said.
OpenAI suddenly needed new financing in a hurry. Altman flew to Sun Valley for a conference and ran into Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s CEO. A tie-up seemed natural. The deal closed in 2019.
Altman and OpenAI had formed a for-profit company under the original nonprofit, they had $1 billion in fresh capital, and Microsoft had a new way to build AI into its vast cloud computing service.
The Reveal
After OpenAI received another $2 billion from Microsoft, Altman and another senior executive, Greg Brockman, visited Bill Gates at his sprawling mansion on the shores of Lake Washington, outside Seattle.
Over dinner, Gates told them he doubted that large language models could work. He would stay skeptical, he said, until the technology performed a task that required critical thinking — passing an Advanced Placement biology test, for instance.
Five months later, on Aug. 24, 2022, Altman and Brockman returned and brought along an OpenAI researcher named Chelsea Voss. Voss had been a medalist in an international biology Olympiad as a high schooler.
On a huge digital display on a stand outside Gates’ living room, the OpenAI crew presented a technology called GPT-4.
Brockman gave the system a multiple-choice advanced biology test, and Voss graded the answers.
There were 60 questions. GPT-4 got only one answer wrong.
Gates sat up in his chair, his eyes opened wide. In 1980, he had a similar reaction when researchers showed him the graphical user interface that became the basis for the modern personal computer. He thought GPT was that revolutionary.
By that October, Microsoft was adding the technology across its online services, including its Bing search engine. And two months later, OpenAI released its ChatGPT chatbot, which is now used by 100 million people every week.
OpenAI had beat the effective altruists at Anthropic. Page’s optimists at Google scurried to release their own chatbot, Bard, but were widely perceived to have lost the race to OpenAI. Three months after ChatGPT’s release, Google stock was down 11%. Musk was nowhere to be found.
But it was just the beginning.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Artificial intelligence; Startups; Debates; Neural networks; Science fiction & fantasy; Venture capital; Chatbots; Mars

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence Startups Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; California; Napa Valley

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Google DeepMind; NAICS: 513210; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

Identifier / keyword: Sun Valley (Calif); Openai Labs; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Ord, Toby; Parties (Social); Great Britain; Venture Capital; Science Fiction; Tesla Motors Inc; Washington (State); Cloud Computing; London (England); Private Spaceflight; Kai (1990 ); Intelligence And Intelligence Tests (Iq); Brin, Sergey; Men And Boys; Sun Valley (Idaho); Hoffman, Reid Garrett; California; Go (Game); Brockman, Greg; Beijing (China); Lake Tahoe (Nev); Seattle (Wash); Gates, Bill; Chelsea (Manhattan, Ny); Thiel, Peter A; Nadella, Satya; Google Inc; Supercomputers; Atari; Social Media; Boards Of Directors; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Search Engines; Chatgpt; Research; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; Entrepreneurship; Deepmind Technologies Ltd; YoutubeCom; Mars (Planet); Twitter; Facebook Inc; Workplace Environment; Biology And Biochemistry; Napa (Calif); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Education (K 12); San Francisco (Calif); Polls And Public Opinion; Hinton, Geoffrey E; Data Mining And Database Marketing; Anthropic Ai Llc; Stocks And Bonds; Earth; Conventions, Fairs And Trade Shows; Artificial Intelligence; Real Estate (Commercial); Navigation; Nepotism; Labor And Jobs; Philosophy; Silicon Valley (Calif); Meta Platforms Inc; Suleyman, Mustafa; Travel And Vacations; High Net Worth Individuals; Baidu Inc; Australia; Altman, Samuel H; Tesla, Nikola; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Nico; Hassabis, Demis; Names, Organizational; Laboratories And Scientific Equipment; Altruism; Birthdays; Washington (Dc); Business; Microsoft Corp; University Of Toronto; Wines; Page, Larry; Start Ups; New York T imes; Menlo Park (Calif); Ethics And Official Misconduct; Paypal

Title: Ego, Fear and Money: How the Artificial Intelligence Fuse Was Lit

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 3, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-03T23:48:29Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2896494555

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ego-fear-money-how-artificial-intelligence-fuse/docview/2896494555/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Often Shunned by Banks, Sex Workers Seek Safe Place: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Tara Siegel Bernard

Publication info: Tara Siegel Bernard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/often-shunned-banks-sex-workers-seek-safe-place/docview/2894616269/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Bella Cummins has run Bella's Hacienda Ranch, her Nevada brothel, for nearly four decades -- and for four decades, she's been shunned by much of the banking industry.
She's been denied a mortgage and several other loans, while many of her employees have had to wait up to two weeks for their paychecks to clear.
"Despite being a legal establishment, there is, of course, still a stigma attached to the work," Ms. Cummins, 74, said from Wells, Nev., the only state where prostitution is legal in certain counties. "There is no bank in Nevada that will lend money to a brothel. So, unlike other businesses, we actually have to make the money to spend the money."
Workers in sex-related industries -- whether working in a brothel or a strip club or selling sexually explicit videos online -- often risk their safety and face social and employment discrimination. But a lesser-known struggle is that it's often difficult to maintain a basic bank account and other financial relationships that most people take for granted.
Banks are shutting down what appear to be an increasing number of customer accounts, usually with little explanation, throwing their customers' lives into chaos. The closures have hit small-business owners who routinely deposit cash, individuals who withdrew larger sums than usual and others who unknowingly transacted with suspected fraudsters, The New York Times has found. But those who work in sex-related industries say they have long lived under that threat of eviction.
Financial institutions are responsible for monitoring the nation's cash flow for potential criminal activities, including human trafficking and money laundering. In the process they've also become quasi-law enforcement, making life-altering calls on who can keep banking and who cannot, based on their own calculus about what kind of risk is worth taking.
But without bank accounts, people are unable to accomplish the most basic of financial tasks: collecting, spending and saving their earnings. Once banished from mainstream bank accounts and everyday financial apps that Americans have come to rely on, sex workers are left with fewer, and often less attractive, options -- turning to crypto, for example, or being forced to rely on others to hold their cash, opening them up to exploitation. For most, it's a continuous source of anxiety.
"Part of the craziness of this is the fear that it instills because it is not consistent," said Jessica Goedtel, a financial planner in Allentown, Pa., whose practice caters to sex workers. "You don't know when or if your account will get shut down, what types of payments they are targeting or how they even mark you for closure."
That comes at a significant cost to workers and small-business owners, many of whom are not breaking the law but sidling up too close to a line that makes financial institutions uncomfortable. And some cross it: While some states are moving toward decriminalizing prostitution, it's still largely illegal.
Even if the trade were decriminalized, some banking insiders say, their biggest concern would continue to be letting a serious crime fall through the cracks, particularly human trafficking, which can cost them millions of dollars in fines. If a person's repeated stream of cash deposits sets off an alarm bell, banks may also consider a sexually suggestive social media or public profile, for example, in combination with too many transactions with websites the bank deems high risk.
"For the bank, it's hard to tell, and there is not a lot of guidance," said a money laundering investigator at one of the nation's largest banks, who did not have permission to speak on behalf of the institution. "Things that are innocuous can get pulled in."
The thresholds for the banks' alarm bells, or their overall risk tolerance, may be dialed up and down over time, which means someone whose work involves sexually explicit texting, voice and video call service -- phone sex for the digital age -- may have an account activated one day and shut down the next.
A majority of workers and small businesses in sex-related industries have experienced some sort of financial disruption: Nearly two-thirds of people working in the adult industry have lost access to a bank account or service, like Venmo or PayPal, and nearly 40 percent of them were shut out in the past year, according to a May report by the Free Speech Coalition, a nonprofit trade group for the adult entertainment industry.
"It's a basic human right -- the right to banking," said Pierre Whatley, a former bank examiner who is now working as a lobbyist for the coalition and helped industry workers arrange meetings with nearly two dozen Republican and Democratic members of Congress about the issue in May.
"Overwhelmingly, the response from Congress is: We did not know this is happening or to the degree this is happening," he said. "Whether or not you agree with sex work, you have to set aside your personal feelings and look at the core issue. Is this a lawful, legal business -- and if so, shouldn't they have a right to a bank account?"
Vulnerable and Banished From Banking
Elle Stanger, a stripper in Portland, Ore., said her income had doubled when she accepted tips electronically through Square, a payment platform. But after several months, Square closed her account -- perhaps, she speculated, because the company figured out where she was working. Square prohibits transactions related to adult entertainment products and services, and a spokeswoman said Square's detection models "use a wide variety of signals to identify activity that may violate our terms and policies."
"I knew I was breaking the rules, but I had just bought a home and I was co-parenting," said Ms. Stanger, who has a young daughter. "I took a chance."
Being able to accept electronic payments would also be safer than heading out of a club at night with pockets full of cash.


Some sex workers have high-profile, lucrative careers. Others see it as a stopgap to make extra money, according to interviews with roughly a dozen workers in the industry. They are mothers, Girl Scout troop leaders, substitute teachers, and graduates with advanced degrees and five-figure student loan debt. They also include survivors of exploitation and abuse who say they are now engaging in sex work on their own terms.
Indeed, many industry workers are already vulnerable, researchers and advocates say, with histories of financial instability. In some situations, they're forced to rely on others -- romantic partners, pimps, roommates -- to hold their money, which can be even more destabilizing and lead to exploitation.
"Having to rely on someone for all of your financial transactions is an incredibly vulnerable place," said Kate D'Adamo, a partner at Reframe Health and Justice, an advocacy and support organization for sex workers, and an author of a recent article in CUNY Law Review on sex workers and financial discrimination.
High Risk, Low Appetite
Banks and other financial institutions, on the other hand, don't want to invite extra scrutiny from regulators and bank examiners.
After a branch employee or computer flags suspicious activity -- maybe it's too many cash deposits, a certain number of peer-to-peer payment transactions that hit the bank's threshold or transactions with adult entertainment sites -- it is reviewed by bank employees in the anti-money laundering department. If these analysts have reason to believe the transaction is potentially problematic, they may be required to file a suspicious activity report, or SAR. A customer with too many SARs may be evicted from the bank.
It's also possible the bank knows where the money is coming from but simply doesn't want to shoulder the potential risks and extra monitoring that may be required to ensure the activity is lawful, bank officials say. Financial institutions often avoid what they deem high-risk industries, like adult entertainment and sex work, even if it is legal.
"If giving you a bank account is likely to make them lose money or expose them to undue risk that is not proportionate to the reward, they are not going to give you a bank account," said Bianca Beebe, a sex work policy researcher and former co-chair of the Oregon Sex Workers' Committee.
The nation's largest banks are considered among industry workers to be more aggressive in shutting accounts down, so sex workers often retreat to smaller community institutions and credit unions.
Some financial institutions make their terms and conditions explicit: Bank of America's online customer agreement for Zelle, for example, says the bank reserves the right to shut down an account if it believes a consumer is using its services for pornography and sexual activities or materials, among other things. Those restrictions are not mentioned in its checking account agreement.
Chase's and Wells Fargo's customer agreements are silent on the issue, but both have made headlines for shutting down adult entertainers' accounts.
About a year ago, Wells Fargo closed the accounts of several current and former workers in legal sex-related trades, Rolling Stone reported at the time, including Alana Evans, the president of the Adult Performance Artists' Guild, who recounted her story on social media, noting that she had been a customer for more than 30 years.
And roughly a decade ago, Chase shut down several adult performers' bank accounts. At the time, the closures were initially linked in media reports to an Obama-era initiative called Operation Choke Point, led by the Justice Department and bank regulators, which discouraged financial institutions and payment processors from doing business with certain high-risk industries, including payday lenders, gun dealers and adult entertainment.
Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for Chase, said the closures were unrelated to the initiative, but instead due to a pattern of transactions between the small group of individuals whose accounts were shut down. "We do not prohibit people in this industry from having personal bank accounts with us," she added.
Among the risks associated with sex work are money laundering and human trafficking, where victims, mostly women, are forced or coerced to engage in commercial sex acts. The Treasury Department's financial crimes unit has sent guidance and advisories to banks on activities that could serve as red flags, though financial institutions often sweep up adult businesses and adult entertainers -- as well as consensual sex workers who are operating outside the law but on their own volition. Many banks and other financial platforms avoid doing business with these industries altogether.
"That is a risk appetite my bank doesn't take," said a manager at a regional bank in charge of filing SARs, who did not want to be named because she didn't have permission to speak on behalf of her bank. "That is the problem we have -- trying to recognize potential human trafficking that we would have to report."
Beyond banks, many financial services apps have blanket bans, which state they won't process any transactions related to adult content or services. PayPal's policy prohibits digital goods and content, such as website subscriptions, but it's OK if you use its service to pay for physical goods, such as a magazine or a DVD. Venmo, a subsidiary of PayPal, follows the same rules. CashApp -- which, like Square, is owned by Block -- lists "selling adult content and services" on its "not allowed" list.
Several anti-money-laundering experts at large banks said that even if a bank flagged individuals who generated ongoing income from OnlyFans, the subscription website that has become synonymous with racy videos, their accounts shouldn't be shut down if the account holders' financial behavior was otherwise routine.
Fighting Stigma
Over her 30-year career in sex work, Sinnamon Love, 49, of Brooklyn, has had her accounts closed at most of the major banks -- Chase, Wells Fargo and Citi -- as well as with PayPal, Square and Venmo.
"I feel like I have one mobile payment app left, and I guard it with my life," said Ms. Love, using a professional name. Ms. Love, whose career has included online content creation to working as a dominatrix in New York City, is also the founder of the Black, Indigenous and People of Color Collective, which provides support services to online sex workers of color. She won't use the app for any work-related transactions -- she fears she won't be able to send money to her children or her niece.
These challenges have extended to her life as an entrepreneur. When she tried to start a website similar to OnlyFans in 2020, Ms. Love and her co-founders had trouble finding a bank to hold their operating budget, which amounted to tens of thousands of dollars. Their business account was shuttered twice.
OnlyFans announced in 2021 that it would ban all sexually explicit activity, reportedly after facing pressure from the payment processing and banking giants that had become increasingly skittish handling pornography-related transactions. But the ban was never put in effect, and the platform has managed to keep operating, in large part, a spokeswoman said, because of financial institutions' confidence in its identity verification system and content moderation.
Others continue to struggle to secure that vote of confidence. Daniel Saynt, founder of the New Society for Wellness, a members-only social sex club that holds themed events and parties for people with varied sexual interests, said that "blockades" were continuously thrown in his path, from bank account closures to payment processing problems.
"It's always 'We can't work with you' and 'There is nothing else, and there is no way to fix it,"' Mr. Saynt said. "There is no solicitation, and there is no one paying to have sex with anyone here. And it doesn't matter."
The stigma can extend to other areas of their lives, too. Ms. Cummins, the brothel owner, said that during the pandemic, Nevada State Bank, owned by Zions Bank, told her that it wasn't comfortable processing a pandemic-relief application through the federal Paycheck Protection Program for her restaurant and espresso bar. The bank had already rejected the application for Bella's Hacienda Ranch, the brothel, an entirely separate establishment from the restaurant and more than half a mile away.
Ms. Cummins, however, was determined. She walked into a credit union, roughly 50 miles from her businesses, where she had a personal account. It was willing to help.
But after several months passed, Ms. Cummins became concerned -- she felt the credit union wasn't gaining traction, so she called the legal counsel for the Small Business Administration, which was overseeing the program, for an update. She left him a voice mail message -- and asked for the courtesy of a callback before he denied her request.
He called back -- the application was still on his desk. After much back and forth, including photos showing the restaurant was separate from the brothel, the application was later approved for more than $ 70,000.
"I couldn't have done it if my words had fallen on deaf ears," she said. "But he listened."
Susan Beachy contributed research. Ron Lieber contributed reporting.
Susan Beachy contributed research. Ron Lieber contributed reporting.
Photograph Bella Cummins doing payroll in the office of Bella's Hacienda Ranch, in Wells, Nev., the brothel she has run for almost 40 years. Banks concerned with the "stigma" have denied her a mortgage and other loans, she said. (B1); Prostitution is legal in certain counties of Nevada. Even so, "there is no bank in Nevada that will lend money to a brothel," said Bella Cummins, top, who owns Bella's Hacienda Ranch (above left and right, Bella's interior rooms). "So, unlike other businesses, we actually have to make the money to spend the money." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIKI CHAN WYLIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Sinnamon Love has had her accounts closed at most of the major banks -- Chase, Wells Fargo and Citi -- and with PayPal, Square and Venmo. "I feel like I have one mobile payment app left, and I guard it with my life," she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLY ZAVALA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) This article appeared in print on page B1, B6.

Subject: Small business; Bank examiners; Banking industry; Bank accounts; Employees; Adult entertainment; Suspicious activity reports; Decriminalization; Money laundering; Bank examinations; Sex industry; Evictions; Human trafficking; Financial institutions

Business indexing term: Subject: Small business Bank examiners Banking industry Bank accounts Employees Suspicious activity reports Bank examinations Sex industry Financial institutions

Location: United States--US; Nevada

Company / organization: Name: Wells Fargo & Co; NAICS: 522110, 551111; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/18/business/sex-workers-bank-accounts.html

Title: Often Shunned by Banks, Sex Workers Seek Safe Place:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 29, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2894616269

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/often-shunned-banks-sex-workers-seek-safe-place/docview/2894616269/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Often Shunned by Banks, Sex Workers Seek a Safe Place

Author: Tara Siegel Bernard

Publication info: Tara Siegel Bernard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/often-shunned-banks-sex-workers-seek-safe-place/docview/2894533689/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Bella Cummins has run Bella’s Hacienda Ranch, her Nevada brothel, for nearly four decades — and for four decades, she has been shunned by much of the banking industry.
She has been denied a mortgage and several other loans, while many of her employees have had to wait up to two weeks for their paychecks to clear.
“Despite being a legal establishment, there is, of course, still a stigma attached to the work,” Cummins, 74, said from Wells, Nevada, the only state where prostitution is legal in certain counties. “There is no bank in Nevada that will lend money to a brothel. So, unlike other businesses, we actually have to make the money to spend the money.”
Workers in sex-related industries — whether working in a brothel or a strip club or selling sexually explicit videos online — often risk their safety and face social and employment discrimination. But a lesser-known struggle is that it’s often difficult to maintain a basic bank account and other financial relationships that most people take for granted.
Banks are shutting down what appear to be an increasing number of customer accounts, usually with little explanation, throwing their customers’ lives into chaos. The closures have hit small-business owners who routinely deposit cash, individuals who withdrew larger sums than usual and others who unknowingly transacted with suspected fraudsters, The New York Times has found. But those who work in sex-related industries say they have long lived under that threat of eviction.
Financial institutions are responsible for monitoring the nation’s cash flow for potential criminal activities, including human trafficking and money laundering. In the process, they’ve also become quasi-law enforcement, making life-altering calls on who can keep banking and who cannot, based on their own calculus about what kind of risk is worth taking.
But without bank accounts, people are unable to accomplish the most basic of financial tasks: collecting, spending and saving their earnings. Once banished from mainstream bank accounts and everyday financial apps that Americans have come to rely on, sex workers are left with fewer, and often less attractive, options — turning to crypto, for example, or being forced to rely on others to hold their cash, opening them up to exploitation. For most, it’s a continuous source of anxiety.
“Part of the craziness of this is the fear that it instills because it is not consistent,” said Jessica Goedtel, a financial planner in Allentown, Pennsylvania, whose practice caters to sex workers. “You don’t know when or if your account will get shut down, what types of payments they are targeting or how they even mark you for closure.”
That comes at a significant cost to workers and small-business owners, many of whom are not breaking the law, but sidling up too close to a line that makes financial institutions uncomfortable. And some cross it: Although some states are moving toward decriminalizing prostitution, it’s still largely illegal.
Even if the trade were decriminalized, some banking insiders say their biggest concern would continue to be letting a serious crime fall through the cracks, particularly human trafficking, which can cost them millions of dollars in fines. If a person’s repeated stream of cash deposits sets off an alarm bell, banks may also consider a sexually suggestive social media or public profile, for example, in combination with too many transactions with websites that the bank deems high risk.
“For the bank, it’s hard to tell, and there is not a lot of guidance,” said a money-laundering investigator at one of the nation’s largest banks, who did not have permission to speak on behalf of the institution. “Things that are innocuous can get pulled in.”
The thresholds for the banks’ alarm bells, or their overall risk tolerance, may be dialed up and down over time, which means someone whose work involves sexually explicit texting, voice and video call service — phone sex for the digital age — may have an account activated one day and shut down the next.
A majority of workers and small businesses in sex-related industries have experienced some sort of financial disruption: Nearly two-thirds of people working in the adult industry have lost access to a bank account or service, such as Venmo or PayPal, and nearly 40% of them were shut out in the past year, according to a May report by the Free Speech Coalition, a nonprofit trade group for the adult entertainment industry.
“It’s a basic human right — the right to banking,” said Pierre Whatley, a former bank examiner who is now working as a lobbyist for the coalition and helped industry workers arrange meetings with nearly two dozen Republican and Democratic members of Congress about the issue in May.
“Overwhelmingly, the response from Congress is: We did not know this is happening or to the degree this is happening,” he said. “Whether or not you agree with sex work, you have to set aside your personal feelings and look at the core issue. Is this a lawful, legal business? And if so, shouldn’t they have a right to a bank account?”
Banished From Banking
Elle Stanger, a stripper in Portland, Oregon, said her income doubled when she accepted tips electronically through Square, a payment platform. But after several months, Square closed her account — perhaps, she speculated, because the company figured out where she was working. Square prohibits transactions related to adult entertainment products and services, and a spokesperson said Square’s detection models “use a wide variety of signals to identify activity that may violate our terms and policies.”
“I knew I was breaking the rules, but I had just bought a home and I was co-parenting,” said Stanger, who has a young daughter. “I took a chance.”
Being able to accept electronic payments would also be safer than heading out of a club at night with pockets full of cash.
Some sex workers have high-profile, lucrative careers. Others see it as a stopgap to make extra money, according to interviews with roughly a dozen workers in the industry. They are mothers, Girl Scout troop leaders, substitute teachers and graduates with advanced degrees and five-figure student-loan debt. They also include survivors of exploitation and abuse who say they are now engaging in sex work on their own terms.
Indeed, many industry workers are already vulnerable, researchers and advocates say, with histories of financial instability. In some situations, they’re forced to rely on others — romantic partners, pimps, roommates — to hold their money, which can be even more destabilizing and lead to exploitation.
“Having to rely on someone for all of your financial transactions is an incredibly vulnerable place,” said Kate D’Adamo, a partner at Reframe Health and Justice, an advocacy and support organization for sex workers, and an author of a recent article in CUNY Law Review on sex workers and financial discrimination.
Avoiding Risk
Banks and other financial institutions don’t want to invite extra scrutiny from regulators and bank examiners.
After a branch employee or computer flags suspicious activity — maybe it’s too many cash deposits, a certain number of peer-to-peer payment transactions that hit the bank’s threshold, or transactions with adult entertainment sites — it is reviewed by bank employees in the anti-money-laundering department. If these analysts have reason to believe the transaction is potentially problematic, they may be required to file a suspicious activity report, or SAR. A customer with too many SARs may be evicted from the bank.
It’s also possible the bank knows where the money is coming from but simply doesn’t want to shoulder the potential risks and extra monitoring that may be required to ensure the activity is lawful, bank officials say. Financial institutions often avoid what they deem high-risk industries, such as adult entertainment and sex work, even if it is legal.
“If giving you a bank account is likely to make them lose money or expose them to undue risk that is not proportionate to the reward, they are not going to give you a bank account,” said Bianca Beebe, a sex work policy researcher and former co-chair of the Oregon Sex Workers’ Committee.
The nation’s largest banks are considered among industry workers to be more aggressive in shutting accounts down, so sex workers often retreat to smaller community institutions and credit unions.
Some financial institutions make their terms and conditions explicit: Bank of America’s online customer agreement for Zelle, for example, says the bank reserves the right to shut down an account if it believes a consumer is using its services for pornography and sexual activities or materials, among other things. Those restrictions are not mentioned in its checking account agreement.
Chase’s and Wells Fargo’s customer agreements are silent on the issue, but both have made headlines for shutting down adult entertainers’ accounts.
About a year ago, Wells Fargo closed the accounts of several current and former workers in legal sex-related trades, Rolling Stone reported at the time, including Alana Evans, president of the Adult Performance Artists’ Guild, who recounted her story on social media, noting that she had been a customer for more than 30 years.
And roughly a decade ago, Chase shut down several adult performers’ bank accounts. At the time, the closures were initially linked in media reports to an Obama-era initiative called Operation Choke Point, led by the Justice Department and bank regulators, which discouraged financial institutions and payment processors from doing business with certain high-risk industries, including payday lenders, gun dealers and adult entertainment.
Trish Wexler, a spokesperson for Chase, said the closures were unrelated to the initiative, but instead were because of a pattern of transactions among the small group of individuals whose accounts were shut down. “We do not prohibit people in this industry from having personal bank accounts with us,” she added.
Among the risks associated with sex work are money laundering and human trafficking, in which victims, mostly women, are forced or coerced to engage in commercial sex acts. The Treasury Department’s financial crimes unit has sent guidance and advisories to banks on activities that could serve as red flags, although financial institutions often sweep up adult businesses and adult entertainers — as well as consensual sex workers who are operating outside of the law but on their own volition. Many banks and other financial platforms avoid doing business with these industries altogether.
“That is a risk appetite my bank doesn’t take,” said a manager at a regional bank in charge of filing SARs, who did not want to be named because she didn’t have permission to speak on behalf of her bank. “That is the problem we have — trying to recognize potential human trafficking that we would have to report.”
Beyond banks, many financial services apps have blanket bans, which state they won’t process any transactions related to adult content or services. PayPal’s policy prohibits digital goods and content, such as website subscriptions, but it’s OK if you use its service to pay for physical goods, such as a magazine or a DVD. Venmo, a subsidiary of PayPal, follows the same rules. CashApp — which, like Square, is owned by Block — lists “selling adult content and services” on its “not allowed” list.
Several anti-money-laundering experts at large banks said that even if a bank flagged individuals who generated ongoing income from OnlyFans, the subscription website that has become synonymous with racy videos, their accounts shouldn’t be shut down if the account holders’ financial behavior was otherwise routine.
Fighting Stigma
Over her 30-year career in sex work, Sinnamon Love, 49, of New York has had her accounts closed at most of the major banks — Chase, Wells Fargo and Citibank — as well as with PayPal, Square and Venmo.
“I feel like I have one mobile payment app left, and I guard it with my life,” said Love, using a professional name. Love, whose career has included online content creation and working as a dominatrix in New York City, is also founder of the Black, Indigenous and People of Color Collective, which provides support services to online sex workers of color. She won’t use the app for any work-related transactions — she fears she won’t be able to send money to her children or her niece.
These challenges have extended to her life as an entrepreneur. When she tried to start a website similar to OnlyFans in 2020, Love and her co-founders had trouble finding a bank to hold their operating budget, which amounted to tens of thousands of dollars. Their business account was shuttered twice.
OnlyFans announced in 2021 that it would ban all sexually explicit activity, reportedly after facing pressure from the payment processing and banking giants that had become increasingly skittish handling pornography-related transactions. But the ban was never put in effect, and the platform has managed to keep operating, in large part, a spokesperson said, because of financial institutions’ confidence in its identity-verification system and content moderation.
Others continue to struggle to secure that vote of confidence. Daniel Saynt, founder of the New Society for Wellness, a members-only social sex club that holds themed events and parties for people with varied sexual interests, said that “blockades” were continuously thrown in his path, from bank-account closures to payment-processing problems.
“It’s always, ‘We can’t work with you,’ and ‘There is nothing else and there is no way to fix it,’” Saynt said. “There is no solicitation, and there is no one paying to have sex with anyone here. And it doesn’t matter.”
The stigma can extend to other areas of sex workers’ lives, too. Cummins, the brothel owner, said that during the pandemic, Nevada State Bank, owned by Zions Bank, told her that it wasn’t comfortable processing a pandemic-relief application through the federal Paycheck Protection Program for her restaurant and espresso bar. The bank had already rejected the application for Bella’s Hacienda Ranch, the brothel, an entirely separate establishment from the restaurant and located more than a half-mile away.
Cummins, however, was determined. She walked into a credit union, roughly 50 miles from her businesses, where she had a personal account. It was willing to help.
But after several months passed, Cummins became concerned — she felt the credit union wasn’t gaining traction, so she called the legal counsel for the Small Business Administration, which was overseeing the program, for an update. She left him a voicemail — and asked for the courtesy of a callback before he denied her request.
He called back — the application was still on his desk. After much back and forth, including photos showing the restaurant was separate from the brothel, the application was later approved for more than $70,000.
“I couldn’t have done it if my words had fallen on deaf ears,” she said. “But he listened.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Small business; Bank examiners; Banking industry; Bank accounts; Employees; Adult entertainment; Suspicious activity reports; Decriminalization; Money laundering; Bank examinations; Sex industry; Evictions; Human trafficking; Financial institutions

Business indexing term: Subject: Small business Bank examiners Banking industry Bank accounts Employees Suspicious activity reports Bank examinations Sex industry Financial institutions

Location: New York; United States--US; Nevada; Oregon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Wells Fargo & Co; NAICS: 522110, 551111; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Legal Aid For The Poor (Civil); Block Inc; Respiratory Diseases; Sex; Performance Art; Voice And Speech; Strip Clubs And Strippers; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Bank Of America Corporation; Obama, Barack; Banks, Jillian; Banking And Financial Institutions; Fines (Penalties); Restaurants; Small Business Administration; Oregon; Small Business; New York City; Parenting; Nevada; Rolling Stone; Justice Department; Bernard, Tara Siegel; Free Speech Coalition; Credit And Debt; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Coaches And Managers; Prices (F ares, Fees And Rates); Lobbying And Lobbyists; Stimulus (Economic); Personal Finances; Zelle (Early Warning Services Llc); Indecency, Obscenity And Profanity; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Child Pornography; Venmo; Student Loans; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Treasury Department; Citigroup Inc; Discrimination; Pennsylvania; Onlyfans; Computers And The Internet; Sex Crimes; E Commerce; Allentown (Pa); Entrepreneurship; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Money Laundering; Crime And Criminals; Longevity; Education (K 12); Dating And Relationships; Portland (Ore); Federal Aid (Us); States (Us); Quantitative Easing; Pornography; Credit Unions; Prostitution; Citibank; Labor And Jobs; Coronavirus Aid, Relief, And Economic Security Act (2020); Business; Human Trafficking; New York Times; Forced Labor; Anxiety And Stress; Wells Fargo & Company; Square Inc

Title: Often Shunned by Banks, Sex Workers Seek a Safe Place

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 28, 2023

Dateline: 2023-11-28T22:42:30Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2894533689

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/often-shunned-banks-sex-workers-seek-safe-place/docview/2894533689/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Users of Etsy, PayPal, Venmo and Like Get Tax Reprieve, Again: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Rappeport, Alan

Publication info: Rappeport, Alan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/users-etsy-paypal-venmo-like-get-tax-reprieve/docview/2892173645/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Biden administration has faced backlash from small-business owners who called the new I.R.S. reporting requirements confusing and onerous.
For the second time in a year, the Internal Revenue Service is delaying enforcement of a contentious tax policy that would require users of digital wallets and e-commerce platforms to start reporting small transactions to the tax collection agency.
The I.R.S. said on Tuesday that it would slowly phase in the new policy, which would require individuals and small businesses to report digital transactions of as little as $ 600 to the federal government.
The new reporting requirement was supposed to take effect late last year, but the Biden administration abruptly postponed it following pressure from lobbyists and backlash from users of services such as Venmo, PayPal, Cash App, StubHub and Etsy.
The head of the Internal Revenue Service said the decision to delay the rule again stemmed from concern of higher tax bills among those who used digital wallets.
"We spent many months gathering feedback from third-party groups and others, and it became increasingly clear we need additional time to effectively implement the new reporting requirements," Daniel Werfel, the I.R.S. commissioner, said in a statement.
The rule, which was included in the 2021 American Rescue Plan, was intended to help narrow a $ 7 trillion "tax gap" that is owed to the United States but has gone uncollected. Before the new law, services like Venmo were required to supply users only with a snapshot of their income, called a 1099-K form, if they had received more than $ 20,000 and had more than 200 transactions in a year. The forms were supposed to be submitted to the I.R.S. with tax returns and were intended to help determine how much a taxpayer owed.
The 2021 law lowered that threshold to $ 600 for the entire year, regardless of the number of transactions, significantly broadening the number of people who were likely to be required to report more income and pay more taxes.
In its announcement on Tuesday, the I.R.S. said that it would keep the old policy in place for the current tax year. And in 2024, it plans to require only taxpayers with more than $ 5,000 of business transactions to report that income.
I.R.S. officials said that the commissioner had discretion to administer tax law and the authority to delay its application.
The change to the law was projected to raise about $ 8 billion in additional tax revenue over 10 years. I.R.S. officials did not have an estimate of how much tax revenue could go uncollected because of the delay.
Democrats and Republicans in Congress have been working over the last year on new legislation that would scale back the reporting requirements to make them less onerous on small businesses.
"This red tape hits small businesses and other Ohioans selling products online, sucking time and resources from the smallest online sellers," Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said in May when he introduced bipartisan legislation to raise the reporting requirement to $ 10,000. "By raising the threshold, we can prevent the I.R.S. from interfering with minor transactions and cut down on excessive paperwork."
Last week, Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, wrote a letter to Mr. Werfel urging him to delay the requirement and warning that failing to do so would hurt taxpayers in his state and across the country.
"The I.R.S. should be focused on holding large corporations accountable, not on processing unnecessary, burdensome paperwork for casual online sellers," Mr. Tester wrote.
Many taxpayers who run small businesses, or occasionally sell goods on the side, have been fearful that they could face messy fights with the I.R.S. if their tax forms erroneously showed them making more income than they actually earned. In some cases, people who sold used items could face high tax bills for those sales if they could not find receipts that showed how the value of those items had depreciated.
Lobbying groups have been urging the Biden administration to delay the policy again so that Congress would have time to act before more than 40 million tax forms were sent to taxpayers. They have argued that there continues to be widespread confusion about whether taxpayers will end up having to pay taxes on small digital transactions between family members and friends.
"The I.R.S. decision represents a huge win for millions of consumers who would have been hit with a freight train of 1099-Ks in January and also buys more time for Congress to craft a permanent legislative solution on a bipartisan basis," said Arshi Siddiqui, a partner at Akin Gump, who is leading an effort by a coalition of businesses trying to change the new tax requirements.
Charlie Wickers, the chief financial officer of the pet-sitting platform Rover, said that planning for the new requirement was increasing his company's compliance costs and would force pet sitters to spend more money on accountants to make sure their taxes are done correctly. He said in an interview that he hopes the requirements are scaled back and that a permanent fix is put in place.
"Ultimately continuing to limp along while thresholds continue to change makes it very difficult from a business perspective to operate and comply," Mr. Wickers said. "It also continues to introduce confusion to users of our platform."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Small business; Taxes; Tax gap; Bipartisanship; Tax revenues; Reporting requirements

Business indexing term: Subject: Small business Taxes Tax gap Tax revenues Reporting requirements

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Internal Revenue Service--IRS; NAICS: 921130; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/21/business/irs-venmo-cash-app-taxes.html

Title: Users of Etsy, PayPal, Venmo and Like Get Tax Reprieve, Again:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 22, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2892173645

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/users-etsy-paypal-venmo-like-get-tax-reprieve/docview/2892173645/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 22, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

SpaceX Sees Progress and New Challenges in Its Bid for Moon and Mars: [National Desk]

Author: Chang, Kenneth

Publication info: Chang, Kenneth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/spacex-sees-progress-new-challenges-bid-moon-mars/docview/2891380501/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The journeys of Starship's two parts ended in separate explosions. But the engineers at Elon Musk's spaceflight company overcame problems that marred the rocket's first flight in April.
SpaceX, Elon Musk's spaceflight company, launched its Starship rocket from the coast of South Texas on Saturday, a mammoth vehicle that could alter the future of space transportation and help NASA return astronauts to the moon.
Saturday's flight of Starship, a powerful vehicle designed to carry NASA astronauts to the moon, was not a complete success. SpaceX did not achieve the test launch's ultimate objective -- a partial trip around the world ending in a splashdown in the Pacific Ocean.
But the test flight, the vehicle's second, did show that the company had fixed key issues that arose during the earlier test operation in April. All 33 engines in the vehicle's lower booster stage fired, and the rocket made it through stage separation -- when the booster falls away and the six engines of the upper stage light up to carry the vehicle to space.
"Just beautiful," John Insprucker, a SpaceX engineer and live launch commentator, said on the SpaceX webcast.
By contrast, the first Starship launch badly damaged the launch site; several engines on the booster failed, fires knocked out the steering of the rocket and the flight termination system took too long to explode.
According to SpaceX's "fail fast, learn faster" approach toward rocket design, successfully avoiding a repeat of past failures counts as major progress.
However, the second flight revealed new challenges that Mr. Musk's engineers must overcome.
Soon after stage separation, the booster exploded -- a "rapid unscheduled disassembly," in the jargon of rocket engineers. The upper-stage Starship spacecraft continued heading toward orbit for several more minutes, reaching an altitude of more than 90 miles, but then SpaceX lost contact with it after the flight termination system detonated.
In a statement, the Federal Aviation Administration said no injuries or property damage had been reported. It will conduct a mishap investigation, which is standard any time something goes wrong with a commercial rocket.
Engineers will now have to decipher what went wrong on both the booster and the upper-stage spacecraft, make fixes and then try again.
Starship is the biggest and most powerful rocket ever to fly. SpaceX aims to make both parts of the vehicle fully and rapidly reusable. That gives it the potential to launch bigger and heavier payloads to space and to significantly drive down the cost of lofting satellites, space telescopes, people and the things they need to live into space.
The test journey's outcome was the latest split-screen moment in the career of Mr. Musk, a serial entrepreneur who previously transformed electronic payments with PayPal and electric cars with Tesla. As SpaceX prepared for the flight on Friday, Disney and Apple paused their ad spending with another one of his companies, the social network X, formerly known as Twitter, after Mr. Musk's endorsement of an antisemitic post on Wednesday.
Many outside observers are optimistic that SpaceX will get Starship to work fully.
"They have fixed issues identified in their first flight and got further than ever before with this type of vehicle," said Phil Larson, who served as a White House space adviser during President Barack Obama's administration and later worked on communication efforts at SpaceX. "The magic of engineering is that it is all about learning, iterating the design, and reflying again soon."
Daniel L. Dumbacher, the executive director of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, agreed. "This is a large launch system," he said. "It's going to take some work to get it to where it needs to go. I have no doubt that the SpaceX team will be able to figure out how to get the launch vehicle working."
A couple of hours before sunrise on Saturday, liquid oxygen and liquid methane started flowing into the Starship. There was some fog near the ground but the skies above were clear, save for a few wisps of cirrus clouds.
The countdown proceeded smoothly, stopping at a planned hold with 40 seconds left on the countdown clock. Then the hold was lifted, the final seconds ticked away and, shortly after 7 a.m. Central time, the 400-foot-tall rocket slowly rose into the sky. A new water deluge system appears to have protected the launchpad, avoiding the cloud of dust and debris that rose up in April.
A few seconds later, the percussive roar buffeted spectators watching on South Padre Island, about five miles north of the launch site.
At 2 minutes, 48 seconds after liftoff, there was a flash as Starship successfully performed what had been expected to be the trickiest part of the flight -- "hot staging," when the six engines of the upper stage ignited before the booster dropped away. Loud cheers resonated from the SpaceX webcast, which was streaming from the company's headquarters in Hawthorne, Calif.
Half a minute later, there was a bigger flash when the booster -- which was to splash in the Gulf of Mexico and sink -- exploded. The upper stage continued onward unscathed. But then a few minutes later, the webcast fell into an uncomfortable silence when contact was lost with the Starship vehicle.
Many of the thousands of people who woke up early to take in the launch on South Padre Island said they had enjoyed the spectacle. By 4:30 a.m., a long line of cars were waiting in darkness to enter Isla Blanca Park at the south end of the South Padre. Others walked from their hotels to avoid the traffic. Boats packed with watchers floated just to the south, outside of the exclusion zone to the east.
The launch was experienced not just by those watching along the coast, but also those farther afield.
Emma Guevara, a resident of Brownsville, the city in South Texas that is west of the SpaceX launch site, said the event had made her house shake.
"It was way earlier than we all expected, so it woke everyone up," said Ms. Guevara, who is a Sierra Club organizer and has protested operations at the company's base.
Top NASA officials offered congratulations to SpaceX.
"Each test represents a step closer to putting the first woman on the Moon with the #Artemis III Starship human landing system.," Jim Free, NASA's associate administrator for exploration systems development, wrote on X. "Looking forward to seeing what can be learned from this test that moves us closer to the next milestone."
How quickly SpaceX solves the Starship issues could determine how soon NASA astronauts return to the moon.
The space agency has hired SpaceX to adapt Starship as a lunar lander to take two astronauts to the moon's south polar regions. Even before the latest Starship test flight, the first landing, currently scheduled for late 2025, had already been considered likely to slip to 2026. SpaceX is also under contract to provide a Starship lander for the second crewed landing, scheduled for 2028.
For the moon landing, SpaceX would need not just one Starship but nearly 20 launches of the spacecraft, because a Starship headed to the moon would have to refill its propellant tanks before leaving Earth's orbit.
For that, SpaceX is planning two other Starship variants.
One will essentially be an orbital gas station in space -- a propellant depot in the language of space business. The other will be a tanker version to carry methane and liquid oxygen to the gas station. A series of tanker flights will be needed to fill the gas station. A Starship headed to the moon or Mars will launch and dock at the propellant depot and refill its tanks. But no one has yet tried pumping tons of propellants in a zero-gravity environment.
As a depot orbits Earth, it passes in and out of sunlight, and the outside of the depot will repeatedly warm and cool. Maintaining the propellants at steady, ultracold temperatures inside the depot will be a challenge.
At a meeting of a NASA Advisory Council committee on Friday, Lakiesha Hawkins, an assistant deputy associate administrator at NASA, said that the number of Starship launches would be in the "high teens."
The Starships would launch "on a six-day rotation" from both the Kennedy Space Center in Florida and the current Starship launch site in Texas, Ms. Hawkins said.
NASA does have a backup. This year, it selected a second lunar lander design from Blue Origin -- the rocket company based in Kent, Wash., started by Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon. That design is smaller and is planned for use in the third lunar landing, which will occur no earlier than 2029.
Ryan Mac and Katrina Miller contributed reporting.
Ryan Mac and Katrina Miller contributed reporting.
Photograph SpaceX's Starship, the biggest and most powerful rocket ever to fly, launched from Starbase on Saturday in Boca Chica, Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A26.

Subject: Space telescopes; Rocket launches; Moon; Webcasting; Service stations; Aviation; Astronauts; Engines; Engineers

Business indexing term: Subject: Service stations

Location: Texas; United States--US; South Padre Island

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA; NAICS: 927110; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/18/science/spacex-starship-launch.html

Title: SpaceX Sees Progress and New Challenges in Its Bid for Moon and Mars:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.26

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 19, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2891380501

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/spacex-sees-progress-new-challenges-bid-moon-mars/docview/2891380501/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Congressman Used Money For Ferragamo and Botox: [National Desk]

Author: Fandos, Nicholas

Publication info: Fandos, Nicholas. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congressman-used-money-ferragamo-botox/docview/2890612222/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: House ethics investigators found that Representative George Santos used campaign money on personal spending splurges in the Hamptons and Atlantic City.
George Santos was utterly triumphant. He had just flipped a Long Island congressional seat, improbably helping deliver Republicans a House majority. It was time for a post-election shopping spree.
Over just a few days last November, Mr. Santos dropped $ 6,000 at Ferragamo, perhaps some of it on the red designer sneakers he later wore to walk the marble halls of Congress. He withdrew $ 800 in cash at a casino, where an aide said he liked to play roulette. He paid off his rent, and he pulled out another $ 1,000 in spending money at an A.T.M. near his apartment in Queens.
It would have been nothing for the kind of wealthy financier Mr. Santos purported to be on the campaign trail. But that was a ruse. All of it was being illegally funded by Mr. Santos's congressional campaign, which wired him $ 20,000 just after Thanksgiving without ever telling campaign donors or the Federal Election Commission.
Those outlays were just a fraction of the tens of thousands of dollars or more that Mr. Santos siphoned from unknowing donors for years, propping up the kind of glittering consumer dream the 35-year-old son of immigrants never could have afforded himself, according to previously undisclosed bank records and other financial documents released by congressional investigators on Thursday.
Among the bills footed by campaign donors: trips to the casinos in Atlantic City and the Hamptons; purchases at the French fashion house Hermès; regular cosmetic treatments labeled "Botox" on internal campaign records; and even small purchases on OnlyFans, a platform best known for allowing creators to sell explicit photos and videos to subscribers.
The bipartisan House Ethics Committee report tallying them up went even deeper, unveiling new details and confirming stories by The New York Times and others about a tangled knot of biographic fictions, business frauds and bizarre campaign schemes that federal prosecutors are also scrutinizing.
But after months of investigation, the panel's conclusion was strikingly simple: For Mr. Santos, it was all about the money.
"Representative Santos sought to fraudulently exploit every aspect of his House candidacy for his own personal financial profit," the committee wrote in a summary of its findings. "He blatantly stole from his campaign. He deceived donors into providing what they thought were contributions to his campaign but were in fact payments for his personal benefit."
The congressman dismissed the findings as a "biased report" designed to smear him and his family. But as the House prepared to vote again on his expulsion in the coming weeks, Mr. Santos said for the first time he would not seek re-election.
"I will not stand by as I am stoned by those who have flaws themselves," he wrote on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.
Mr. Santos was already facing a 23-count federal indictment, including charges that he stole from his donors and falsified campaign filings. But Thursday's report -- including hundreds of pages in previously unseen texts, emails, financial records and other documents -- colored in vivid new details of the yearslong fraud.
It found that Mr. Santos appeared to have no real assets when he first decided to run for Congress as a Republican in 2019. Investigators struggled to piece together a reliable financial picture, but they said records showed only unsteady streams of income from sporadic business ventures.
He "was frequently in debt, had an abysmal credit score, and relied on an ever-growing wallet of high-interest credit cards to fund his luxury spending habits," they wrote.
His campaigns would help change that.
Mr. Santos reported personally lending his first campaign $ 81,250. Most of that money was never real, but after he paid himself back using campaign contributions from donors, he walked away with $ 27,700 in profit, investigators found.
At the same time, Mr. Santos started directly using his campaign account -- funded by small and large donors who believed they were supporting a Republican for Congress -- as a personal slush fund.
Investigators found more than $ 40,000 in expenditures from the campaign bank account that were never reported to the F.E.C. and appear to have been used for Mr. Santos's personal benefit, in violation of campaign finance law.
They include $ 1,500 in February 2022 at a business called MAX pets; smaller charges from JetBlue, Home Depot, Hilton Hotels, an urgent care office and Adventureland Amusement Park on Long Island; and more than $ 1,700 at two Atlantic City casinos, Caesars and Harrah's. (A former staffer told investigators Mr. Santos said he liked playing roulette.)
Investigators flagged a July 2022 "hotel stay" for $ 3,332.81 that did appear on Mr. Santos's F.E.C. filings. The problem was, Mr. Santos's calendar showed he was in the Hamptons at the time, not engaging in any known campaign activity.
Other records show Mr. Santos charged the campaign for taxi and hotel charges in Las Vegas at a time when he told aides he was there on his honeymoon.
The report documents an even more audacious self-enrichment scheme a year later, involving a Florida company called RedStone Strategies. Federal prosecutors had already laid out the basics: Two donors gave $ 25,000 each to RedStone, believing it was an outside committee set up to help Mr. Santos; he pocketed the money instead.
But congressional investigators revealed for the first time what he spent it on: $ 4,127.80 in designer goods from Hermès; credit card bills; meals and parking; products from Sephora, the cosmetics retail giant; and purchases on OnlyFans.
Mr. Santos's concern for his appearance evidently went beyond clothing. Records show he spent $ 1,500 on the campaign's debit card just before the 2020 election at Mirza Aesthetics (motto: "Royalty Suited to Your Needs"). Nancy Marks, his campaign treasurer, described the expense as "Botox" on a spreadsheet she shared with the committee but did not disclose it to the F.E.C. And a former aide told investigators Mr. Santos once brought him to a Botox appointment "when there was a campaign event nearby."
Mr. Santos used the card again at Virtual Skin Spa for another apparent injection in July 2022, according to Ms. Marks's notations. And in February 2021, the campaign had made a PayPal payment for just over $ 1,000 to "an aesthetician associated with a spa" in the Hudson Valley. The committee said none of the cosmetic expenses had a known "campaign nexus."
Mr. Santos and his lawyers deny financial impropriety. They have repeatedly sought to blame any wrongdoing on Ms. Marks, though the Ethics Committee said the evidence pointed firmly to Mr. Santos's own culpability.
Despite his decision not to seek re-election, Mr. Santos is still rebuffing widespread calls for his immediate resignation.
One likely reason? For the first time in his life, Mr. Santos has a steady income, a $ 174,000-a-year House salary.
Michael Gold contributed reporting.
Michael Gold contributed reporting.
Photograph George Santos blames his campaign treasurer, Nancy Marks, for any wrongdoing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Campaign contributions; Political ethics; Scandals; Political finance

Location: United States--US; Long Island New York

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: OnlyFans; NAICS: 516210; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/16/nyregion/santos-botox-ferragamo-expenses.html

Title: Congressman Used Money For Ferragamo and Botox:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 17, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2890612222

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/congressman-used-money-ferragamo-botox/docview/2890612222/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Money Apps Are in Sights Of Watchdog: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Cowley, Stacy

Publication info: Cowley, Stacy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/money-apps-are-sights-watchdog/docview/2886771245/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A proposed rule would subject Google, Apple, PayPal and other digital wallet providers to the same scrutiny that banks face.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau wants to extend its watchdog powers to cover digital wallets and payment apps run by companies like Apple, Google, PayPal and Block, which do not have traditional banking operations.
The bureau proposed a rule on Tuesday that would subject large companies -- those that process more than five million financial transactions per year -- to the same supervisory examinations the bureau conducts on banks and credit unions. About 17 companies, which together handle $ 13 billion in transactions a year and hold an 88 percent share of the market in the United States, would be subject to the rule, according to a bureau official.
"Payment systems are critical infrastructure for our economy," said Rohit Chopra, the bureau's director. "Today's rule would crack down on one avenue for regulatory arbitrage by ensuring large technology firms and other nonbank payments companies are subjected to appropriate oversight."
The proposed rule could take effect as soon as next year. One of the payment industry's largest trade groups, the Electronic Transactions Association, had a fairly mild response to the proposal.
"E.T.A. supports the C.F.P.B.'s goals of robust consumer protections for payments and a consistent regulatory environment for both banks and fintechs," said Jodie Kelley, the group's chief executive. "It is critical that the final rule encourages continued innovation and competition in the payments space."
Banking trade groups have long pressed for nonbank companies to face the same kind of audits and oversight that banks do. Lindsey Johnson, the chief executive of the Consumer Bankers Association, called the proposed rule "a step in the right direction."
Mr. Chopra has been open about his desire to apply greater regulatory scrutiny to large technology companies. Last month, he warned about the "surveillance and censorship" that such companies can impose on consumers' financial transactions, citing the wealth of personal details that can be gleaned from the payment trail recorded by apps like PayPal's Venmo and Block's Cash App.
A September report from the bureau spotlighted the ways Apple and Google use their dominance as mobile phone makers to steer customers toward their own tap-to-pay digital wallet products.
Consumers moved $ 893 billion through payment services last year -- including digital wallets, payment apps and Zelle, a system owned by a consortium of banks -- according to an estimate cited by the consumer bureau, and keep billions of dollars stored in those apps. Americans have been slower than consumers in other countries to adopt digital payments, but the pandemic sharply accelerated their use.
Nearly 56 million shoppers made an in-store purchase with Apple Pay -- the most popular mobile payment service in the United States -- in April, according to the consumer bureau. Starbucks' digital app and Google Pay, the next most widely used retail payment apps, trail Apple. (The draft rule contains language excluding payment apps that can be used only with a specific retailer or loan servicer, which would put Starbucks outside the rule's reach.)
The consumer bureau already has enforcement powers over digital payment companies because it regulates electronic fund transfers, but adding supervisory oversight would significantly expand its visibility into the operations of the market's largest operators. It would allow the agency to obtain and review detailed corporate records and to send its financial examiners to companies' offices to interview employees, scrutinize policies and safeguards, and flag problems as they spot them.
The public can comment on the 69-page proposal until at least January. After that, the agency can move to make the regulations final.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Bank examiners; Mobile commerce; Consumers; Bank examinations; Banking

Business indexing term: Subject: Bank examiners Mobile commerce Consumers Bank examinations Banking

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/07/business/cfpb-paypal-venmo-cashapp.html

Title: Money Apps Are in Sights Of Watchdog:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 8, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2886771245

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/money-apps-are-sights-watchdog/docview/2886771245/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bezos to Move To Miami Area From Seattle: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ives, Mike

Publication info: Ives, Mike. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bezos-move-miami-area-seattle/docview/2885704509/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Amazon founder has lived in Seattle since 1994. He said he was returning to Miami, where he attended high school, in part to be closer to his parents.
Jeff Bezos, who founded Amazon out of his Seattle garage in 1994 and plowed billions of dollars into transforming the city into a tech boomtown, said on Thursday that he was leaving his home of three decades and moving to Miami.
Mr. Bezos, 59, announced his move in an Instagram post on Thursday night. He said his parents had recently moved back to Miami, where he attended high school, and that he wanted to be closer to them and to his partner, Lauren Sánchez.
Another factor, he said, was that operations for his rocket company, Blue Origin, are increasingly shifting to Cape Canaveral, Fla., just over 200 miles by road north of Miami along the state's Atlantic coast.
Bloomberg News reported last month that Mr. Bezos had purchased a mansion in South Florida for $ 79 million, a few months after buying a neighboring one for $ 68 million. Mr. Bezos is worth $ 161 billion, making him the world's third-richest person, according to Bloomberg.
Mr. Bezos said in his Instagram post that he had "amazing memories" of Seattle and had lived there longer than anywhere else. "As exciting as the move is, it's an emotional decision for me," he wrote. "Seattle, you will always have a piece of my heart."
A brief video that Mr. Bezos posted with his Instagram announcement shows him giving a tour of Amazon's first office, a humble affair based out of his Seattle garage. The room has a few giant white computers, a dry-erase board covered in writing and a fax machine sitting atop a gray filing cabinet.
"See this big orange extension cord?" a young Mr. Bezos, wearing jeans and in good spirits, says at one point to the cameraman, his father. "This is one of the contraptions we have to have because there's not enough power in this room. So we have to bring in some extra circuit breakers."
"And, uh, that's about it," he says at the end of the video, over the sound of a dog barking. "It doesn't take long to tour the offices of Amazon-dot-com Inc."
It was not immediately clear late Thursday how the people of Seattle or Miami felt about his move.
As Amazon grew over the years into a colossus of internet commerce, becoming the world's largest retail seller outside China in 2021, it poured billions of dollars into Seattle's economy and helped to reshape its global reputation.
But Amazon has faced pushback from workers and regulators over its labor practices and corporate tactics. And Mr. Bezos, who owns The Washington Post and the world's largest sailing yacht, among other things, has plenty of detractors in Seattle and beyond.
While Mr. Bezos' move to Miami might come as a surprise to some, it is hardly unique. In fact, he may arrive fashionably late. In early 2021, less than a year after the coronavirus pandemic upended daily life for millions of Americans, The New York Times reported on the stampede of Silicon Valley techies and Wall Street titans moving to Miami.
At the time, dozens of big-name leaders relocated: Keith Rabois, a PayPal co-founder and investor; Peter Thiel, the tech investor and prominent conservative; Jon Oringer, founder of the stock-photography provider Shutterstock; Bryan Goldberg, the media mogul, and plenty of others.
Francis X. Suarez, the city's mayor, welcomed the newcomers with open arms. The rich and wealthy have long gravitated to Miami to enjoy their fortunes and, on days off, their time on the water. In the pandemic, it was unclear if these newcomers were just the latest generation to do so, or if they would really build new companies in the city.
Though the rush of the past three years leveled out, demand has remained relatively steady in South Florida, real estate brokers say.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Mayors; Pandemics

Location: United States--US; South Florida

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/03/business/jeff-bezos-amazon-miami-seattle.html

Title: Bezos to Move To Miami Area From Seattle:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 4, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2885704509

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bezos-move-miami-area-seattle/docview/2885704509/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Social Services Have Lagged Under Adams: [National Desk]

Author: Rubinstein, Dana; Fitzsimmons, Emma G

Publication info: Rubinstein, Dana; Fitzsimmons, Emma G. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/social-services-have-lagged-under-adams/docview/2870209828/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Some critical services in New York City are growing less reliable under Mayor Eric Adams, from long waits for food stamps to fewer sexual health clinics.
At a drop-in center for homeless youth, Mayor Eric Adams made a promise last year. By marshaling limited city resources and following a detailed blueprint, New York City would aim to eradicate homelessness among younger New Yorkers.
It was a bold goal, but one the mayor said was personal to him as someone who grew up on the brink of poverty and eviction.
But since Mr. Adams unveiled his plan, the administration has all but abandoned key elements of it. The charity that served as the host of his announcement went under, citing years of late payments from city government as a main reason. The mayor discontinued integral parts of the plan, leaving vacant a years-old City Hall position dedicated to tackling youth homelessness, and discontinuing the newly created "peer navigators" for homeless and runaway youth.
In his nearly two years as mayor, Mr. Adams has struggled to meet the city's need for varied critical services, especially as other challenges arise. Some efforts, like ending youth homelessness, have suffered; other initiatives, like fighting crime and rats, have been more successful -- helping fulfill the mayor's campaign pledge to reduce visible signs of disorder.
Yet a comprehensive review of the Mayor's Management Report, a 520-page compendium packed with statistics about the city's performance during Mr. Adams's tenure, shows that services elsewhere are sliding, and perhaps none more glaringly than those serving the city's most disadvantaged residents.
In the recently released report, the city flagged numerous "critical indicators" to measure its agencies' progress in areas of concern. Of the 65 indicators gauging progress at social services, slightly more than half had gotten worse, according to the report. Roughly a third showed improvement, and seven were stable.
For Mr. Adams, the challenges confronting the city have never been greater. More than three years after the coronavirus pandemic began, the city's economy is still hampered by the work-from-home trend, and now the administration must deal with the financial implications of a migrant influx that shows no sign of abating -- complicating efforts to improve the city's delivery of certain social services.
Only 40 percent of applications for food stamps were processed within a month, the legally mandated time frame, compared with 60 percent the year before and 93 percent before the pandemic.
Though the city reduced the time it takes to fix more systemic heat outages, it has been taking longer to address individual emergency heating and hot water requests in public housing, home to roughly 400,000 New Yorkers. It is taking significantly longer to prepare vacant public housing apartments for new residents, even as homelessness soars.
In Mr. Adams's first full fiscal year as mayor, his administration took more than twice as long to process rent-freeze requests from low-income seniors and disabled New Yorkers, a problem the city blamed partly on budget-related staffing shortages. Even police response times rose across the board.
Jonah Allon, a spokesman for Mr. Adams, said the mayor remains focused on helping low-income New Yorkers, and pointed to areas where the administration made gains.
In a statement, Mr. Allon said that the administration had "built the most supportive housing units in a single year in the city's history, paired more foster youth with life coaches through the Fair Futures program, increased the number of families accessing child care through vouchers by roughly 73 percent and so much more."
"Weaving a robust social safety net is a core component of Mayor Adams's 'Working People's Agenda' for a more equitable city," Mr. Allon added.
Indeed, the city moved more homeless households into new housing, and increased the number of summer jobs and internships available to young New Yorkers and the number of seats available in Summer Rising, a summer school and recreational program created during the pandemic.
Yet many vulnerable New Yorkers struggle each day because of gaps in city services.
Stephanie Johnson, a single mother of four, was at risk of losing her Brooklyn home after her landlord abruptly stopped receiving rental subsidies from the city. In the Bronx, Diana Cruz was facing eviction and did not have a lawyer to help her, even though a city law guarantees free legal assistance.
Diana Ramos was struggling to find her next meal after the city took weeks to approve her request for food stamps. When Ms. Ramos, 46, called the city's Human Resources Administration for help, she waited on hold for hours to no avail. She ended up relying on food pantries and her father, who recently sent her $ 40 over PayPal to buy some basics.
"I'm a diabetic," she said. "It's not like I can buy a big box of ramen noodles. I need vegetables. I need protein."
Ms. Ramos, who was assisted by the Safety Net Project at the Urban Justice Center, said she was relieved when her food stamps arrived last week, the day after The New York Times asked city officials to comment on her case.
"You know that I qualify for food stamps -- I have no income," she said. "Why is this so hard?"
A confluence of factors has contributed to the recent decline in city services.
The mayor has forced city agencies to curb spending, over the objections of Democrats on the City Council, citing an uncertain economic outlook and new labor deals. He has warned that additional budget cuts and a hiring freeze might be necessary as the city struggles to pay for housing thousands of migrants arriving from the southern border. The proposed cuts of up to 15 percent over the next year would be much deeper than past cuts and could prove even more harmful to poor New Yorkers.
Policy differences between Mr. Adams and his predecessor, Bill de Blasio, have also led to cuts for some of the previous administration's priorities, including prekindergarten for all 3-year-olds.
Even before the migrant crisis, a city worker staffing shortage had hollowed out agencies; with more than 26,000 vacant positions, the city has found it difficult to deliver some basic municipal services, especially in a timely manner. This summer, nearly 7 percent of full-time city government jobs were unfilled, compared with around 2.5 percent in 2020, 2019 and 2014, according to the Citizens Budget Commission.
Mr. Allon acknowledged that "the ongoing asylum seeker crisis" has had "significant impacts on our city's budget and agency operations."
Demand has surged for cash assistance in New York City, yet 6 percent of the jobs are unfilled at the city division responsible for dispensing public assistance -- more than double citywide historic norms, according to data provided by the state comptroller's office.
The city processed only 29 percent of applications for cash assistance on time, compared with 95 percent in 2019. The delays violate state and federal law, a federal judge in Manhattan recently ruled, and the city must figure out a path to compliance by early next year.
Phara Souffrant Forrest, a state assemblywoman from Brooklyn, called the delays "shocking and cruel beyond words."
Some agencies have taken months to fill important positions -- a situation that some critics believe is a strategy by the Adams administration to lower costs.
Interviews with 13 current city staffers suggest that while the situation has improved this year at some agencies, others are still short-staffed, and triage remains the norm.
Last summer, city officials wrote a letter to the mayor's office warning that low staffing levels were threatening critical services. The city budget office took 17 months to approve the hiring of an essential staff member, which prompted the director overseeing that position and members of the team to resign in protest, according to the letter, which was obtained by The Times.
The 11-page letter listed dozens of examples where services were endangered or harmed: A health center in Harlem delayed a distribution of cribs and car seats to families that is part of an effort to reduce infant mortality; there were fewer lead inspections at homes with newborns where other building units had documented lead paint hazards; a program that provides free eye exams to kindergartners and first-grade students reached 15 percent of eligible students, compared with 95 percent in the 2019-20 school year.
The staffing shortage also affected the city's highly respected sexual health clinics and tuberculosis clinics. They have not fully reopened since closing at the height of the pandemic, even as sexually transmitted infections are rising and there are growing concerns about tuberculosis.
The city's eight sexual health clinics saw nearly 95,000 annual visits before the pandemic; that number has dropped to nearly 62,000 over the last year, according to data from the Health Department. Only five of the clinics offered sexual health services, and a sixth reopened in July.
As for tuberculosis -- a highly infectious disease that has higher rates in some other countries from which people emigrate to New York -- one of the city's four clinics, in Washington Heights, closed as part of the pandemic response and has not reopened.
Dr. Jay Varma, who served as a top health adviser to Mr. de Blasio, called on the city to reopen all the clinics. "They're really a true safety net facility," he said.
The declines in service are not limited to those for struggling New Yorkers. A lifeguard shortage prompted pool closings this summer. The Department of Cultural Affairs, which supports cultural institutions across the city, is responding to only 28 percent of customer service emails within two weeks, less than last year, and down from 91 percent in 2019. New York City installed fewer protected bike lanes and fewer bus lanes than the year before, and the city appears to be on track to install fewer than legally required this calendar year. The number of street trees pruned fell to 46,000, roughly the same as last year and compared with nearly 71,000 in 2019.
"There are a lot of nuts and bolts that seem to be loosening," said Andrew Rein, president of the Citizens Budget Commission.
With the migrant crisis overwhelming the city's shelter system, the threat of homelessness is particularly troubling.
Ms. Cruz, 43, who lives in the Bronx and has nine children, is fighting eviction in housing court, but has not been able to secure a lawyer through the city's right to counsel law. The law provides free access to lawyers for tenants in eviction cases, but there are not enough lawyers available.
Ms. Cruz's circumstances are hardly unique: As eviction cases have risen sharply, 63 percent of tenants facing eviction had legal representation during a three-month period last year -- down from 71 percent during the same period in 2021, according to the city's Office of Civil Justice.
"This is my first eviction," Ms. Cruz said. "I've always paid my rent. I don't know what to do. I don't know where to start."
A year ago, Lyndon Chris Hernandez, a 26-year-old formerly homeless man who has emerged as a leader in the world of homeless and runaway youth, appeared with Mr. Adams at the unveiling of the mayor's plan to end youth homelessness. Mr. Hernandez got a job as a privately funded peer navigator for runaway and homeless youth, but saw his colleagues who were hired with city money lose their jobs.
In August, over breakfast at a diner in Queens, he said he was not all that surprised by the administration's actions. "The mayor makes empty promises," he said.
Photograph Lyndon Chris Hernandez, a formerly homeless man who works with homeless youth, said the mayor makes "empty promises."; "Why is this so hard?" Diana Ramos said about her request for food stamps, which took weeks for the city to process. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAYLAH AMATULLAH BARRAYN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mayor Eric Adams made strides in areas important to him, like battling crime and rats. But other city services have shown a decline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) This article appeared in print on page A1, A20.

Subject: Workforce planning; Food stamps; Homeless people; Low income groups; Pandemics; Labor shortages; Public housing; Sexual health; Mayors; Budgets; Tuberculosis; Social services

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Labor shortages Budgets

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

People: Adams, Eric

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/29/nyregion/adams-nyc-services-performance.html

Title: Social Services Have Lagged Under Adams:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 30, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2870209828

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/social-services-have-lagged-under-adams/docview/2870209828/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Vulnerable New Yorkers Suffer as Some Services Decline Under Mayor Adams

Author: Rubinstein, Dana; Fitzsimmons, Emma G

Publication info: Rubinstein, Dana; Fitzsimmons, Emma G. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vulnerable-new-yorkers-suffer-as-some-services/docview/2870170131/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — At a drop-in center for homeless youth, Mayor Eric Adams made a promise last year. By marshaling limited city resources and following a detailed blueprint, New York City would aim to eradicate homelessness among younger New Yorkers.
It was a bold goal, but one the mayor said was personal to him as someone who grew up on the brink of poverty and eviction.
But since Adams unveiled his plan, the administration has all but abandoned key elements of it. The charity that served as the host of his announcement went under, citing years of late payments from city government as a main reason. The mayor discontinued integral parts of the plan, leaving vacant a years-old City Hall position dedicated to tackling youth homelessness, and discontinuing the newly created “peer navigators” for homeless and runaway youth.
In his nearly two years as mayor, Adams has struggled to meet the city’s need for varied critical services, especially as other challenges arise. Some efforts, like ending youth homelessness, have suffered; other initiatives, like fighting crime and rats, have been more successful — helping fulfill the mayor’s campaign pledge to reduce visible signs of disorder.
Yet a comprehensive review of the Mayor’s Management Report, a 520-page compendium packed with statistics about the city’s performance during Adams’ tenure, shows that services elsewhere are sliding, and perhaps none more glaringly than those serving the city’s most disadvantaged residents.
In the recently released report, the city flagged numerous “critical indicators” to measure its agencies’ progress in areas of concern. Of the 65 indicators gauging progress at social services, slightly more than half had gotten worse, according to the report. Roughly one-third showed improvement, and seven were stable.
For Adams, the challenges confronting the city have never been greater. More than three years after the coronavirus pandemic began, the city’s economy is still hampered by the work-from-home trend, and now the administration must deal with the financial implications of a migrant influx that shows no sign of abating — complicating efforts to improve the city’s delivery of certain social services.
Only 40% of applications for food stamps were processed within a month, the legally mandated time frame, compared with 60% the year before and 93% before the pandemic.
Although the city reduced the time it takes to fix more systemic heat outages, it has been taking longer to address individual emergency heating and hot water requests in public housing, home to roughly 400,000 New Yorkers. It is taking significantly longer to prepare vacant public housing apartments for new residents, even as homelessness soars.
In Adams’ first full fiscal year as mayor, his administration took more than twice as long to process rent-freeze requests from low-income seniors and disabled New Yorkers, a problem the city blamed partly on budget-related staffing shortages. Even police response times rose across the board.
Jonah Allon, a spokesperson for Adams, said the mayor remains focused on helping low-income New Yorkers, and pointed to areas where the administration made gains.
In a statement, Allon said that the administration had “built the most supportive housing units in a single year in the city’s history, paired more foster youth with life coaches through the Fair Futures program, increased the number of families accessing child care through vouchers by roughly 73% and so much more.
“Weaving a robust social safety net is a core component of Mayor Adams’ ‘Working People’s Agenda’ for a more equitable city,” Allon added.
Indeed, the city moved more homeless households into new housing, and increased the number of summer jobs and internships available to young New Yorkers and the number of seats available in Summer Rising, a summer school and recreational program created during the pandemic.
Yet many vulnerable New Yorkers struggle each day because of gaps in city services.
Stephanie Johnson, a single mother of four, was at risk of losing her Brooklyn home after her landlord abruptly stopped receiving rental subsidies from the city. In the Bronx, Diana Cruz was facing eviction and did not have a lawyer to help her, even though a city law guarantees free legal assistance.
Diana Ramos was struggling to find her next meal after the city took weeks to approve her request for food stamps. When Ramos, 46, called the city’s Human Resources Administration for help, she waited on hold for hours to no avail. She ended up relying on food pantries and her father, who recently sent her $40 over PayPal to buy some basics.
“I’m a diabetic,” she said. “It’s not like I can buy a big box of ramen noodles. I need vegetables. I need protein.”
Ramos, who was assisted by the Safety Net Project at the Urban Justice Center, said she was relieved when her food stamps arrived last week, the day after The New York Times asked city officials to comment on her case.
“You know that I qualify for food stamps — I have no income,” she said. “Why is this so hard?”
A confluence of factors has contributed to the recent decline in city services.
The mayor has forced city agencies to curb spending, over the objections of Democrats on the City Council, citing an uncertain economic outlook and new labor deals. He has warned that additional budget cuts and a hiring freeze might be necessary as the city struggles to pay for housing thousands of migrants arriving from the southern border. The proposed cuts of up to 15% over the next year would be much deeper than past cuts and could prove even more harmful to poor New Yorkers.
Policy differences between Adams and his predecessor, Bill de Blasio, have also led to cuts for some of the previous administration’s priorities, including prekindergarten for all 3-year-olds.
Even before the migrant crisis, a city worker staffing shortage had hollowed out agencies; with more than 26,000 vacant positions, the city has found it difficult to deliver some basic municipal services, especially in a timely manner. This summer, nearly 7% of full-time city government jobs were unfilled, compared with around 2.5% in 2020, 2019 and 2014, according to the Citizens Budget Commission.
Allon acknowledged that “the ongoing asylum-seeker crisis” has had “significant impacts on our city’s budget and agency operations.”
Demand has surged for cash assistance in New York City, yet 6% of the jobs are unfilled at the city division responsible for dispensing public assistance — more than double citywide historic norms, according to data provided by the state comptroller’s office.
The city processed only 29% of applications for cash assistance on time, compared with 95% in 2019. The delays violate state and federal law, a federal judge in Manhattan recently ruled, and the city must figure out a path to compliance by early next year.
Phara Souffrant Forrest, a state Assembly member from Brooklyn, called the delays “shocking and cruel beyond words.”
Some agencies have taken months to fill important positions — a situation that some critics believe is a strategy by the Adams administration to lower costs.
Interviews with 13 current city staffers suggest that while the situation has improved this year at some agencies, others are still short-staffed, and triage remains the norm.
Last summer, city officials wrote a letter to the mayor’s office warning that low staffing levels were threatening critical services. The city budget office took 17 months to approve the hiring of an essential staff member, which prompted the director overseeing that position and members of the team to resign in protest, according to the letter, which was obtained by the Times.
The 11-page letter listed dozens of examples where services were endangered or harmed: A health center in Harlem delayed a distribution of cribs and car seats to families that is part of an effort to reduce infant mortality; there were fewer lead inspections at homes with newborns where other building units had documented lead paint hazards; a program that provides free eye exams to kindergartners and first grade students reached 15% of eligible students, compared with 95% in the 2019-20 school year.
The staffing shortage also affected the city’s highly respected sexual health clinics and tuberculosis clinics. They have not fully reopened since closing at the height of the pandemic, even as sexually transmitted infections are rising and there are growing concerns about tuberculosis.
The city’s eight sexual health clinics saw nearly 95,000 annual visits before the pandemic; that number has dropped to nearly 62,000 over the past year, according to data from the Health Department. Only five of the clinics offered sexual health services, and a sixth reopened in July.
As for tuberculosis — a highly infectious disease that has higher rates in some other countries from which people emigrate to New York — one of the city’s four clinics, in Washington Heights, closed as part of the pandemic response and has not reopened.
Dr. Jay Varma, who served as a top health adviser to de Blasio, called on the city to reopen all the clinics. “They’re really a true safety net facility,” he said.
The declines in service are not limited to those for struggling New Yorkers. A lifeguard shortage prompted pool closings this summer. The Department of Cultural Affairs, which supports cultural institutions across the city, is responding to only 28% of customer service emails within two weeks, less than last year, and down from 91% in 2019. New York City installed fewer protected bike lanes and fewer bus lanes than the year before, and the city appears to be on track to install fewer than legally required this calendar year. The number of street trees pruned fell to 46,000, roughly the same as last year and compared with nearly 71,000 in 2019.
“There are a lot of nuts and bolts that seem to be loosening,” said Andrew Rein, president of the Citizens Budget Commission.
With the migrant crisis overwhelming the city’s shelter system, the threat of homelessness is particularly troubling.
Cruz, 43, who lives in the Bronx and has nine children, is fighting eviction in housing court but has not been able to secure a lawyer through the city’s right to counsel law. The law provides free access to lawyers for tenants in eviction cases, but there are not enough lawyers available.
Cruz’s circumstances are hardly unique: As eviction cases have risen sharply, 63% of tenants facing eviction had legal representation during a three-month period last year — down from 71% during the same period in 2021, according to the city’s Office of Civil Justice.
“This is my first eviction,” Cruz said. “I’ve always paid my rent. I don’t know what to do. I don’t know where to start.”
A year ago, Lyndon Chris Hernandez, a 26-year-old formerly homeless man who has emerged as a leader in the world of homeless and runaway youth, appeared with Adams at the unveiling of the mayor’s plan to end youth homelessness. Hernandez got a job as a privately funded peer navigator for runaway and homeless youth but saw his colleagues who were hired with city money lose their jobs.
In August, over breakfast at a diner in Queens, he said he was not all that surprised by the administration’s actions. “The mayor makes empty promises,” he said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Workforce planning; Food stamps; Homeless people; Low income groups; Pandemics; Labor shortages; Public housing; Sexual health; Mayors; Budgets; Tuberculosis

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Labor shortages Budgets

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

Company / organization: Name: New York T imes Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Welfare (Us); Budgets And Budgeting; Varma, Jay K; Asylum, Right Of; Education (K 12); Tuberculosis; Public And Subsidized Housing; Sex; Poverty; Altruism; Immigration And Emigration; Police Department (Nyc); Shortages; New York City; United States; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Income; City Council (Nyc); Youth; Philanthropy; Legal Aid For The Poor (Civil); Disasters And Emergencies; Politics And Government; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Government Employees; Health And Mental Hygiene Department (Nyc); Culture (Arts); Telecommuting; Hiring And Promotion; Summer (Season); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Health Insurance And Managed Care; Brooklyn (Nyc); Education (Pre School); Customer Relations; Decisions And Verdicts; Local Government; Law And Legislation; Urban Justice Center; Federal Budget (Us); Democratic Party; Crime And Criminals; Diabetes; New York State; Illegal Immigration; Adams, Eric L; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Bronx (Nyc); Coronavirus Reopenings; Labor And Jobs; Citizens Budget Commission; Rats; Homeless Persons; Washington Heights (Manhattan, Ny); Conservation Of Resources; Queens (Nyc); Human Resources Administration (Nyc); Doctors; Group Homes And Supportive Housing; Cultural Affairs Department; Urban Areas; Mayors; De Blasio, Bill; New York Times; Disease Rates

Title: Vulnerable New Yorkers Suffer as Some Services Decline Under Mayor Adams

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 29, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-29T22:31:25Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2870170131

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vulnerable-new-yorkers-suffe r-as-some-services/docview/2870170131/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At Work, 'Whole Selves' Increasingly Include Religion: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Miller, Jennifer

Publication info: Miller, Jennifer. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-work-whole-selves-increasingly-include/docview/2867679450/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Secular companies have invited employees to bring their "whole selves" to work. That increasingly includes their religion.
When Christy Childers moved from Austin to San Francisco in 2017 to start a marketing job at Facebook, she felt anxious about sharing her evangelical faith with her new colleagues. In Ms. Childers's religious community, Silicon Valley has a reputation for being overtly secular and less than accepting of Christian beliefs. She now calls that view "unfounded." Within a week, colleagues had invited her to a lunchtime Bible study and a happy hour attended by scores of Christians across the tech industry.
"I thought, 'I can be out about being a Christian. I can do that here,"' Ms. Childers said.
During her three years as a brand manager, Ms. Childers's evangelical identity became central to her work. She honed her managerial skills by leading the Christians at Facebook (now Christians at Meta) employee resource group. Weekly prayer meetings with colleagues led to what she called "real-time miracles," like engineers suddenly fixing bugs they'd struggled with for months and solutions to P.R. crises. Company leaders also consulted her about the attitudes of conservative Facebook users.
In 2019, Ms. Childers founded Pray for Tech, a nonprofit that supports Christian prayer communities inside tech companies. The next year, she left Facebook to run the organization full time. She has since worked with Christian groups at 40 companies, where she's observed a growing interest in supporting workers' core identities, including their faith.
This corporate effort to create a sense of belonging at work grew after the murder of George Floyd in May 2020, when many companies rushed to improve their diversity, equity and inclusion, or D.E.I., efforts. Employees from underrepresented groups were encouraged to bring their "authentic" or "whole" selves to work, and companies increased support for identity-based employee groups organized around gender, race, ethnicity and sexual orientation.
Increasingly, faith is a part of this list. Human resources professionals, diversity consultants and scholars all say it's become more common for employees to share their religious identities at work and to request the same corporate recognition and support given to other identity groups. Most major tech companies now have official faith-based affinity groups.
Fueling the effort are multiple Christian organizations including Pray for Tech; anti-discrimination nonprofits, like the Anti-Defamation League; and nonpartisan, multifaith nonprofits like Interfaith America and the Religious Freedom & Business Foundation.
"It feels like the train is moving and as imperfect as the D.E.I. vehicle is, hop on or hop off and get religion into the larger ecosystem," said Simran Jeet Singh, executive director of the Religion & Society Program at the Aspen Institute. "It's almost like, here's a way for people of faith to say, think about us too."
Twenty years ago, few secular companies recognized faith-based employee groups and those that did exist -- whether officially sanctioned or not -- were typically for Christians. Today, nearly 70 secular corporations officially fund them, according to the Religious Freedom & Business Foundation, and scores more allow them to exist. Many groups are new since 2017, some have thousands of members and represent Christians, Muslims and Jews, along with Sikhs, Buddhists, Baha'is and even atheists.
Scholars call this a cultural shift. The secular office has long been "a neutral space, where there is separating out of religion," said Helen Chung, an assistant professor of industrial-organizational psychology at Seattle Pacific University who studies faith-based employee resource groups. This is partly "a carry-over from the separation of church and state," Ms. Chung said, and partly a way to keep the peace. "What are the two things you're not supposed to talk about?" said Brian Grim, president of the Religious Freedom & Business Foundation. "Religion and politics."
Inviting employees to bring their whole selves to the workplace means companies should be prepared to host some difficult conversations. "That doesn't mean companies have to weigh in on Israel-Palestine," Mr. Singh said. But, he said, workers of faith "have real issues that they'll be bringing to the table, and you have to be ready to address them."
'We shouldn't be hiding'
Americans may be turning away from organized religion, but a fifth still view their work as a spiritual calling, according to a nationally representative survey from Rice University.
"Historically, religious institutions have provided people a context, a container to mark transitions in their lives and do some meaning making," Ms. Chung said. "But some of that has lessened, and I think because of that, we look to recreate some structures for ourselves in the workplace."
Employees who have joined workplace faith groups or otherwise integrated religion into their professional lives, often do so for emotional support. Ms. Childers's organization, Pray for Tech, facilitates virtual inter-company prayer sessions, like one last March, where employees from Meta, Microsoft and Yahoo prayed for strength in the face of layoffs.
At PayPal, workers can submit requests to a "prayer portal," asking that colleagues pray for them. "A lot of times it's around a health diagnosis. Or a prayer for leadership and wisdom during difficult economic times," said Becky Pomerleau, the company's senior director of audit, who helped found both the company's interfaith and Christian affinity groups in 2019.
Sukie Singh Gandhi, a technical consulting manager at Salesforce, said engaging with her Sikh faith at work helps her feel seen and respected as a religious minority. Ms. Gandhi is global vice president of Faithforce, a 5,000-member affinity group at her company, and part of the "Sikhs at Salesforce" Slack channel -- positions she's used to help out her Sikh colleagues.
Some Sikhs, for example, are required to carry a kirpan, a small ceremonial dagger that represents justice and courage. Yet they worry colleagues or security will misconstrue the kirpan as a weapon. After her colleagues raised these concerns on the Slack channel last year, Ms. Gandhi helped convene meetings with executives, security officials and employees to discuss the issue.
As a result of these talks, Sikhs who want to carry a kirpan at work now receive special notation on their employee badges.
Ms. Gandhi found this experience empowering. "That is who I am," she said. "We shouldn't be hiding."
In fact, many religious employees say they were closeted about their faith before "coming out" to colleagues. Michael Roberts, a Salesforce engineer, said it took him three years to come out as an evangelical Christian. Once he did, he became a founding member of Faithforce.
A few years later, at age 30, Mr. Roberts came out as gay. After learning that he was in a same-sex relationship, his longtime church rejected him. But his Faithforce colleagues had the opposite response. "They were amazing champions," Mr. Roberts said. "That was a significant source of strength for me in that hard transition."
Difficult conversations
Companies with faith-based affinity groups are quick to emphasize how deeply their employees respect one another. But as religious workers become more vocal inside secular workplaces, "one potential downside is that what's safe and creates a more inclusive environment for one group might have an opposite or negative impact for another group," said Katina Sawyer, associate professor of management and organizations at the University of Arizona, who studies workplace inclusion. "That's not something organizations have necessarily thought about in great detail."
The Civil Rights Act prohibits employers from discriminating against workers based on their religion, race, gender, nationality or sexual orientation. But recent Supreme Court decisions seem to have privileged religious freedoms, like exempting health plans at companies with religious objections from providing contraception under the Affordable Care Act or allowing a religious social services nonprofit to turn away same-sex foster parents.
In June, a unanimous Supreme Court decision made it easier for people to seek religious accommodations at work. Typically, such accommodations involve holiday time off or wearing religious dress. But Steven Green, director of the Center for Religion, Law and Democracy at Willamette University, thinks the ruling could open the door for other demands -- like the ability to proselytize, which is a core tenet of some faiths. "Some religious public interest groups are creating a narrative that you must be able to bring your entire self into the workplace," he said, "and that means your ability to evangelize, which has been inhibited."
During a recent Pride month, members of some faith-based employee groups at a large tech company grew frustrated over their employer's overt L.G.B.T.Q. advocacy. Some considered organizing a walkout. An adviser to the Christian affinity group, who requested anonymity to preserve his professional relationships, counseled the frustrated employees to consider how such an event would affect their L.G.B.T.Q. colleagues. The walkout never happened.
Mr. Grim, of the Religious Freedom & Business Foundation, recalled hearing about another incident in which an employee sent a mass email inviting staff to a Bible study. Mr. Grim says that the appropriate employer response should depend on the situation: If a supervisor sent the email, it could be considered coercive if it is viewed as mandatory or somehow consequential to an employee's place in the company. But if a rank-and-file employee is permitted to send a mass email invitation to a baby shower or Pride parade, then Bible study should be fair game.
Not every company is prepared to grapple with these questions. It's possibly why only 43 Fortune 500 companies officially recognize faith-based affinity groups, according to an assessment by Mr. Grim's organization.
"We're often approached by diversity professionals who are really versed in race, gender, sexuality, and they're like, "Oh, I don't get religion, and I'm not comfortable with it," said Megan Johnson, senior director for strategic initiatives at the nonpartisan, nonprofit Interfaith America. "Especially when these groups might come up against that person's own value set."
In 2021, Rebecca Leeman was an organizational consultant at PwC in Manhattan, when a man wearing a skullcap was assaulted near the company's Midtown offices. He had been on his way to a pro-Israel demonstration. Ms. Leeman said the company sent a mass email condemning the assault and even mentioned it during an all-hands meeting, but never used the word "anti-Semitism."
"Because of the connections to Israel and politics, I think they were intentionally vague," Ms. Leeman said. She felt the company needed to understand the very specific fear she'd been feeling about her Jewish identity in recent years.
She co-wrote a letter to Tim Ryan, then the company's U.S. chair, requesting that PwC recognize a formal Jewish affinity group. The company responded swiftly. Within a few months, they'd authorized an interfaith organization with a Jewish group under its umbrella.
'Feel-good stuff' vs. shared identity
Companies like an interfaith approach to religion in the workplace, because it allows them to focus on education and sidestep potential conflict. Last December, PayPal hosted its first interfaith fair, complete with turban tying and henna painting. This winter, PwC will host a lunch and learn about workers' different holiday traditions. Each spring, a handful of companies hold Ramadan "fast-a-thons" in which non-Muslims fast for one day alongside their Muslim colleagues.
At Dell, there is a single multifaith group with six religions represented but no faith-specific communities -- at least none the company officially recognizes. "Those become divisive and exclusive," said Vanice Hayes, Dell's chief culture, diversity and inclusion officer. "We are all about making sure people don't feel siloed."
Mr. Singh of the Aspen Institute agrees that an interfaith approach can help avoid polarization, but he worries the "feel-good stuff" can "fall really flat, because it's too superficial." He added that workers from minority faiths often want a space "to find their people on the basis of some shared identity and heritage." That's especially important, he said, with hate crimes on the rise.
In late 2022, the Anti-Defamation League started a Jewish Employee Resource Group Network to address growing inquiries from Jewish employees and D.E.I. officers. "Excluding Jews or bundling them in a much bigger group reinforces that signal that Jews are not vulnerable, aren't a minority group," said Adam Neufeld, senior vice president and chief impact officer of the A.D.L. "We think they are."
Access to a like-minded community also provides the safety some workers need to step outside of it. Steve Teng, whose Austin nonprofit Pivot helps Christians start Christ-centered communities at work, said some people have been taught to think that entering interfaith spaces means they're abandoning their own theology. "I tell them, don't be scared," he said. "When you receive ideas, you also get to share them. That's dignifying people of every kind."
Photograph Top, employees from Salesforce after a tour of a Baha'i temple near Chicago. Above, Michael Roberts, a founder of Faithforce, Salesforce's 5,000-member multifaith resource group. Below, Faithforce members. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE KELTER DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU8) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU8.

Subject: Evangelicalism; Employees; Sikhs; Nonprofit organizations

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/22/business/religion-work-diversity-equity-inclusion.html

Title: At Work, 'Whole Selves' Increasingly Include Religion:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 24, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2867679450

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-work-whole-selves-increasingly-include/docview/2867679450/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tech Titans Want to Build a New City. Can't They Just Fix What We've Already Got?: [Op-Ed]

Author: Turner, Molly

Publication info: Turner, Molly. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-titans-want-build-new-city-cant-they-just/docview/2865707483/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tech leaders are fed up with cities and their politics. So they want to start over. And that doesn't bode well for cities old or new.
We recently learned that the mysterious company gobbling up land in Solano County, Calif., is funded by venture capitalists including Marc Andreessen, Reid Hoffman and Steve Jobs's widow, Laurene Powell Jobs. Their goal: build a new city from scratch. In doing so, they are getting in a long line of technotopians that includes the Google co-founder Larry Page and his effort to build cities "from the internet up," the Palantir co-founder Joe Lonsdale and his plans for "charter cities" and the PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel and his desire for "Seasteader" cities floating on water. The Amazon founder Jeff Bezos wants to see cities floating in space, and Elon Musk has proposed cities in Texas and on Mars. There's even a venture capital firm funding the creation of new cities.
As a professor of urban tech who has worked in the industry for years, I've been recruited to lead some of these technotopian ventures. What I learned from these meetings keeps me focused on my day job. The tech leaders may have the money to build new cities, and they certainly have the hubris. What they lack is the disposition.
Cities and their problems have long bedeviled people in power. The technotopians are just the latest in a grand tradition of American business magnates aspiring to build their dreams -- from Pullman, Ill., to Epcot Center in Disney World. They tend to approach building cities the same way they've approached building tech start-ups. And that is unfortunate.
To state the obvious: Cities are not start-ups. They can't keep up with the tech industry's rate of innovation. That frustrates many technotopians, like the Thumbtack co-founder Jonathan Swanson, who once complained that "humans currently live in cities that are the equivalent of flip phones" -- the worst possible insult in Silicon Valley at the time.
Cities aren't like phones. They're not like computers either, a distinction that the University of Pennsylvania professor Shannon Mattern wrote an entire book to explain. Urban problems are too complex and politically fraught to be programmed into an app. Constructing a building takes much longer than constructing a website. And undoing the racist legacy of urban policies is more complicated than pushing through a software update.
Approaching complex urban problems as if they were engineering problems has led to some of the biggest mistakes in our urban history. During the urban renewal era of the mid-20th century, urban planners like Le Corbusier were so enthusiastic about the so-called "machine age" that they approached buildings and cities as if they were "machines for living." The results were mostly car-centric, soulless and segregated by use (and often by race), from Brasília to San Francisco's Fillmore neighborhood. City leaders have since spent billions working to deconstruct and reintegrate what those "machine age" planners built.
While today's technologies have made it easier to optimize urban life, they haven't helped us reach a collective agreement about what aspects of urban life deserve optimization. An overemphasis on urban technology can be a distraction from urban outcomes. For example, the frantic race to deploy autonomous vehicles on our streets appears to be more focused on perfecting the vehicles than on addressing cities' real mobility challenges. That's because technotopian proposals tend to focus on solving technology problems more than people problems. You can see this in how they pitch themselves. New technologies often outnumber people in their renderings, if people are pictured at all.
Refreshingly, the latest proposal from the technotopians in Solano County hasn't focused on the tech -- yet. Their renderings are surprisingly nostalgic for a storybook Mediterranean urbanism. But as The San Francisco Chronicle urban design critic put it, the renderings are impossible to critique, because, "what was unfurled is so innocuous as to be an insult. The images are as placid as a video aimed at infants."
Perhaps that is because this cohort of technotopians has learned from the mistakes of their peers, or because they've hired more thoughtful urbanists -- or, perhaps cynically, they're just trying to appeal to rural residents who will have to vote on the new city plan. Whatever the reason, I hope this time will be different. But with so many tech investors at the helm who are eager to pilot new technologies like flying cars, I'm not optimistic.
I get it. It's challenging to transform our existing cities and to pilot new tech solutions on our streets. Just look at the rocky rollout of e-scooters around the world. Wouldn't it be easier to test new technologies, business models and government structures in cities free of pesky people? That's certainly the aim of many technotopian plans, which call for new cities to be built, new rules to be written and new residents to opt in to being guinea pigs. Mr. Lonsdale, of Palantir, explains: "The idea is simple: found new cities, free from old bureaucratic and legal structures, and explore bold new visions of how government should work. Market them to people who choose to join and see what the world learns."
But these new cities are never really built from scratch. They usually encroach on someone else's land or run contrary to local plans. The technotopians rarely acknowledge that, which often leads to their downfall, as with Alphabet in Toronto and the Seasteaders in French Polynesia. The Solano project appears to be on a similar trajectory. They've snapped up land under a veil of secrecy, which has undermined needed political support. "If these investors plan to convince Solano residents and their elected representatives that building a new city on productive agricultural land is a wise scheme, they are off to a terrible start at earning the community's trust," John Garamendi, a Democrat who represents part of Solano County, testified at a recent State Senate committee hearing.
It's a shame the technotopians keep seeking out new territories. Our existing cities have plenty of problems to solve. And there are plenty of technologies that could help solve them. Their perpetual focus on starting from scratch is just a megalomaniac distraction.
No need to worry, you may think: Many of these places will never get built. But there's an opportunity cost to these utopian dreams. What if all the billions in venture capital money and media attention were refocused on solving real-world challenges in cities today? Could we better fix public transportation's pending fiscal cliff or the affordable housing crisis? I'm afraid we'll never know. The lure of starting from scratch is just too great.
Molly Turner is a lecturer at the Haas School of Business at the University of California Berkeley and a co-host of the podcast "Technopolis."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
A lecturer at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley and the co-host of the 'Technopolis' podcast.
This article appeared in print on page A23.

Subject: Urban planning; Startups; Cities; Urbanism; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Venture capital

Location: United States--US; San Francisco California; Solano County California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/17/opinion/solano-county-flannery-associates-billionaires-build-cities.html

Title: Tech Titans Want to Build a New City. Can't They Just Fix What We've Already Got?:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.23

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 18, 2023

column: St Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2865707483

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-titans-want-build-new-city-cant-they-just/docview/2865707483/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Museums Should Never Have Hoarded Looted Artifacts: [Op-Ed]

Author: Felch, Jason

Publication info: Felch, Jason. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/museums-should-never-have-hoarded-looted/docview/2865442207/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The news that roughly 2,000 objects, dating from antiquity to the 19th century, have disappeared over a decade from the vast storerooms of the British Museum -- a fact the museum acknowledged a few weeks ago -- should be enough to endanger the job security of any museum's director. Add in the news that the thief is suspected to have been a curator of Greek antiquities at the museum, and that the precious objects were being peddled in the digital marketplace, and you can understand why the museum's director recently resigned.
These revelations have shaken the staid museum world and raised important questions about security, record keeping and funding priorities. But the root problem goes deeper, to the origins of our national museums. And the fix will take more than new security protocols.
The British Museum must use this scandal as an opportunity to update the dusty notion of the so-called universal museum -- rethinking how these institutions can exist in a 21st-century world where the sharing and blending of cultures has never been more crucial. Rather than resisting calls to repatriate contested objects in their collections, museums should be transparent about their holdings and how they were acquired. They should embark on a campaign of generous, long-term loans that allows objects to circulate freely across borders. And they should embrace digital tools to open their storage facilities to public scrutiny.
This is an opportunity to radically reimagine the mission and purpose of the universal museum -- places like the Metropolitan Museum, the Louvre, the Prado and the British Museum -- and what they owe to the world.
The dream of a "universal" or "encyclopedic" museum was born centuries ago as a product of the Enlightenment. During the 1700s, in a burst of noblesse oblige, many art collections were moved from private drawing rooms into public spaces, where they theoretically could be appreciated by all. The grand institutions that were built over the next century to house them were established on the notion that access to the world's art and artifacts would foster an enlightened, democratic culture -- and, implicitly or explicitly, on the idea that only institutions in the West could properly preserve, protect and study the world's great wonders.
The Enlightenment led into the age of empire, and these new museums were quickly filled with plunder. Thomas Bruce (a.k.a. Lord Elgin) whisked sculptures from the Parthenon away to London. "The Winged Victory of Samothrace" landed in the Louvre. The "Benin Bronzes" were dispersed around the globe, including to the Met. Egypt's Nefertiti bust was shipped off to Berlin.
At the time, many considered this kind of acquisition to be benign, even necessary, arguing that the museums would be suitable curators and custodians of the objects. That view is still invoked as the rationale to keep vast collections of antiquities in museum storerooms now. In 2002, more than a dozen leading museums, including the Louvre and the Met, signed on to a "Declaration on the Importance and Value of Universal Museums," partly as a retort to Greece's nagging claims for a return of the Parthenon marbles in London and to the growing criticism that these museums embodied a colonial view of culture that needed correcting.
"Over time, objects so acquired -- whether by purchase, gift or partage -- have become part of the museums that have cared for them, and by extension part of the heritage of the nations which house them," the statement read. "To narrow the focus of museums whose collections are diverse and multifaceted would therefore be a disservice to all visitors."
But the theft of objects from the bowels of the British Museum put the lie to that threadbare view: If these institutions fail at the fundamental task of physically protecting the treasures they are supposedly preserving, how can they justify keeping things they themselves have taken from other societies?
Indeed, the British Museum thefts might have gone unnoticed if not for an antiquities dealer who was browsing eBay and recognized an ancient Roman cameo as one from the museum's collection. The dealer notified the museum in 2021 that, after tracking and buying many such objects, he had identified the anonymous seller via a PayPal account. The evidence presented by the dealer was doubly disturbing: Not only were the thefts an inside job, but they were allegedly carried out by a curator (who is now facing a police investigation) whose duty was to protect these objects.
As an investigative reporter, I spent years uncovering how the J. Paul Getty Museum, along with peer institutions in Boston, New York and elsewhere, had built world-class collections of Classical antiquities in the 1980s and '90s by doing business with a thriving black market. After the Getty's curator was criminally charged by the Italian government (a case that was later dropped when a three-judge panel ruled that the statute of limitations had expired), the mounting evidence compelled several museums to return over 100 looted antiquities to Italy, Greece, Turkey and beyond.
Several antiquities dealers have likewise been heavily involved in the theft and sale of antiquities from across Asia, selling them to collectors and museums, including some in the United States. Some of the dealers have since faced criminal charges, and federal agents at Homeland Security Investigations, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency usually charged with investigating antiquities trafficking, have worked with federal and state prosecutors to seize and repatriate tens of thousands of looted objects.
European museums are facing a similar reckoning about their colonial acquisitions. A report commissioned by France's president recommended the restitution of major artifacts and any illegally obtained works to African countries on the basis of bilateral agreements. Last year, Germany announced it would return more than 1,000 bronzes from the historical Kingdom of Benin.
As the very first of the universal museums, the British Museum built its collection over several hundred years of colonial boondoggles and the result is a treasure house of epic proportions: The collection contains some eight million objects (nobody knows for sure), of which only about 4.5 million have been fully documented online. A mere 1 percent are on display. But the museum is largely prohibited by law from disposing of its holdings, and it has often justified its position by invoking its ability to safeguard the world's treasures.
That position no longer makes sense. The universal museum, a relic of the Enlightenment, was never truly universal: Virtually all universal museums reside in Western cities, far beyond the reach of many of the communities from which their objects were taken. And there is nothing enlightened about hoarding the world's culture in storage, unseen by many and often, apparently, unsafe.
Jason Felch is a former investigative reporter for The Los Angeles Times and a co-author of "Chasing Aphrodite: The Hunt for Looted Antiquities at the World's Richest Museum."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page SR10.

Subject: Historic artifacts; Theft; Looting; Criminal investigations; Robbery; Museums

Location: Greece; New York; United States--US; Benin

Company / organization: Name: Louvre; NAICS: 712110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/16/opinion/museum-artifacts-looting.html

Title: Museums Should Never Have Hoarded Looted Artifacts:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 17, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2865442207

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/museums-should-n ever-have-hoarded-looted/docview/2865442207/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

TikTok Shop Aims to Turn Influencing Into Sales: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-shop-aims-turn-influencing-into-sales/docview/2863678875/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The company is beginning to introduce TikTok Shop to all of the app's users in the U.S., hoping to add a major new revenue stream.
TikTok wooed marketers from companies like Madewell, H&M and Gucci last Wednesday as part of New York Fashion Week, transforming the stylish East Village restaurant Cathédrale with a video wall showcasing fashion trends like "little luxuries" and tall mannequins wearing TikTok-inspired styles.
TikTok has cemented itself as an essential advertising venue for brands aiming to reach its young users. But at the party, the marketers were abuzz about TikTok's efforts to sell products from the app itself.
The reason: After nearly a year of testing, speculation and some internal upheaval, TikTok this week is rolling out TikTok Shop for all users in the United States. The company will expand the rollout of a Shop button on the app's home screen, which sends people to a marketplace, and drive traffic to videos that contain Shop buttons for specific products. Both enable users to buy products in a few clicks without leaving the app.
E-commerce is a significant bet for the company, which is hoping to translate the app's power as a cultural trendsetter into another big new revenue stream. But it is a venture that other popular social platforms, including Instagram, have not succeeded with in the United States.
To make it a hit, TikTok said, it is actively driving videos with shopping buttons into users' feed. The company is also, for the time being, giving generous discounts and coupons to users who shop and forgoing commissions from many sellers. TikTok said that it had already signed up 200,000 sellers to TikTok Shop and that more than 100,000 creators could make videos and livestream with shopping buttons.
"We have a very aggressive plan to make a splash in the industry and make sure that people out there understand that TikTok is a place for shopping," Nico Le Bourgeois, one of two executives overseeing TikTok Shop in the United States, said in an interview last week. "We'll be very present for Black Friday and Cyber Monday through a combination of traffic, free shipping and deals." He also said TikTok Shop would run ads on the web and elsewhere.
On Monday, TikTok's Shop button led to a page in the app with a vast array of items. Some were bizarre, like a 27-cent palm-size foldable chair and a $ 5.52 ice crusher with a hand crank. But there was also a section for verified brands like Revolve, Benefit Cosmetics and Otterbox, and products like Air Jordan sneakers.
In main TikTok feeds, creators are increasingly pitching products in videos that bear an orange Shop icon and the label "eligible for commission." People can buy the products with Apple Pay, PayPal or a credit card.
The Shop button, which now appears to 40 percent of users on the main bar of the app's home screen, started rolling out in August and will reach all of TikTok's 150 million U.S. users by early October.
An executive overhaul last month led to questions about the direction of U.S. e-commerce at the company. The person who oversaw the efforts, Sandie Hawkins, left the company for personal reasons, according to an internal memo. Mr. Le Bourgeois, who joined TikTok from Amazon, and Marni Levine, a retail executive who was most recently at Meta, replaced her in the role. They report to Bob Kang, the global e-commerce chief of the Chinese company ByteDance, which owns TikTok.
The company seems to have moved away from an initial focus on promoting shopping through livestreams, a huge industry in Asia that has not found the same resonance in North America, according to several marketers.
Craig Brommers, the chief marketing officer of the retailer American Eagle, said that when the chain tested live shopping events on TikTok in the past year, viewership was "well under what brands are experiencing in Asia-Pacific."
"The initial hypothesis was that live shopping would translate to North America -- we haven't seen that success," Mr. Brommers said. He said his company was keen to learn about other tools from TikTok Shop under its new leadership, especially if it could make it "seamless" for Gen Z shoppers to, say, watch TikTok creators in American Eagle jeans, then buy them in a few clicks.
Mr. Le Bourgeois and Ms. Levine said videos with shopping buttons from brands and creators were now TikTok Shop's main sales driver, though they said live shopping was still a priority and growing in the United States.
Creators who want to sell products from TikTok's marketplace must choose from the assortment of items TikTok has available. Alyssa Pannozzi, an indoor cycling trainer and TikTok personality with more than 200,000 followers, said that when she looked at the sea of products, many came from "foreign shops that have a hodgepodge of items."
The company has already run into accusations that it has enabled sales of shoddy or copyright-infringing products and has drawn comparisons to fast-growing Chinese shopping apps like Shein and Temu, which have flooded the market with cheap goods mailed straight from China.
TikTok's executives pushed back against such comparisons, saying it viewed itself more like Amazon or China's TMall and was using technology and manual moderation to enforce its policies, requiring "robust verification" for new sellers. The company said more than 90 percent of TikTok Shop's sellers were U.S.-based, and Mr. Le Bourgeois emphasized that a slew of major brands like Benefit, Olay, L'Oreal and e.l.f. had joined or were planning to join TikTok Shop.
Ms. Pannozzi, 37, said she was invited to join TikTok Shop a few months ago but largely ignored it until July, when she saw that her feed was flooded with QVC-style pitches and wondered if she could make money from those. She has tried to feature items from sellers with positive reviews that suit her followers -- like hair elastics and water bottles -- finding major success a few weeks ago with an advertorial video that passed more than two million views and led to over 600 sales of a Stanley-style tumbler. She said she expected to earn thousands of dollars in commissions and had joined an agency's invite-only program for TikTok Shop creators.
"Now, I'm getting a bunch of inquiries every morning when I wake up," she said. "TikTok to me now is completely different than it was a couple of months ago -- just the whole vibe of it," she added.
Paul Tran and Lynda Truong, the married founders of the South Korean skin care company Love & Pebble, attended TikTok's event with advertisers last week. They said in an interview that joining TikTok Shop this summer was "life changing," and that TikTok's offers for shoppers were generous.
Mr. Tran said the average price for the brand's core product -- a "beauty pops ice mask kit" for the face -- was about $ 39. While it was often selling for $ 7, or even $ 11, less on TikTok because of the app's discounts, he said he was still earning the same profit as he would from the standard price. Mr. Tran said he was not sure when TikTok might start taking a commission.
Ms. Levine said that TikTok could not elaborate on its future commission model but that it was "focused on getting the first of all the sellers to add their inventory to the platform."
"The name of the game is to keep people on the platform as well, whether that's through shopping, engagement of videos, whether it's through dances," Ms. Levine added. "It's always about keeping people engaged and being a part of the community."
Contact Sapna Maheshwari at sapna@nytimes.com
Photograph At the East Village restaurant Cathédrale, TikTok rolled out its new shopping feature as part of Fashion Week. The social media app is hoping TikTok Shop will add a major new revenue stream. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Alyssa Pannozzi, an indoor cycling trainer with more than 200,000 TikTok followers, posted a video that surpassed two million views and led to over 600 sales of a tumbler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAYANA SZYMCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Shopping; Electronic commerce; Video recordings

Business indexing term: Subject: Electronic commerce

Location: China; United States--US; Asia; North America

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/12/business/tiktok-shop-e-commerce.html

Title: TikTok Shop Aims to Turn Influencing Into Sales:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 12, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2863678875

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-shop-aims-turn-influencing-into-sales/docview/2863678875/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

TikTok Popularizes Products. Can It Sell Them, Too?

Author: Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-popularizes-products-can-sell-them-too/docview/2863845487/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TikTok wooed marketers from companies like Madewell, H&M and Gucci on Wednesday as part of New York Fashion Week, transforming the stylish East Village restaurant Cathédrale with a video wall showcasing fashion trends like “little luxuries” and tall mannequins wearing TikTok-inspired styles.
TikTok has cemented itself as an essential advertising venue for brands aiming to reach its young users. But at the party, the marketers were abuzz about TikTok’s efforts to sell products from the app itself.
The reason: After nearly a year of testing, speculation and some internal upheaval, TikTok this week is rolling out TikTok Shop for all users in the United States. The company will expand the rollout of a Shop button on the app’s home screen, which sends people to a marketplace, and drive traffic to videos that contain Shop buttons for specific products. Both enable users to buy products in a few clicks without leaving the app.
E-commerce is a significant bet for the company, which is hoping to translate the app’s power as a cultural trendsetter into another big new revenue stream. But it is a venture that other popular social platforms, including Instagram, have not succeeded with in the United States.
To make it a hit, TikTok said, it is actively driving videos with shopping buttons into users’ feed. The company is also, for the time being, giving generous discounts and coupons to users who shop and forgoing commissions from many sellers. TikTok said that it had already signed up 200,000 sellers to TikTok Shop and that more than 100,000 creators could make videos and livestream with shopping buttons.
“We have a very aggressive plan to make a splash in the industry and make sure that people out there understand that TikTok is a place for shopping,” Nico Le Bourgeois, one of two executives overseeing TikTok Shop in the United States, said in an interview last week. “We’ll be very present for Black Friday and Cyber Monday through a combination of traffic, free shipping and deals.” He also said TikTok Shop would run ads on the web and elsewhere.
On Monday, TikTok’s Shop button led to a page in the app with a vast array of items. Some were bizarre, like a 27-cent palm-size foldable chair and a $5.52 ice crusher with a hand crank. But there was also a section for verified brands like Revolve, Benefit Cosmetics and Otterbox, and products like Air Jordan sneakers.
In main TikTok feeds, creators are increasingly pitching products in videos that bear an orange Shop icon and the label “eligible for commission.” People can buy the products with Apple Pay, PayPal or a credit card.
The Shop button, which now appears to 40% of users on the main bar of the app’s home screen, started rolling out in August and will reach all of TikTok’s 150 million U.S. users by early October.
An executive overhaul last month led to questions about the direction of U.S. e-commerce at the company. The person who oversaw the efforts, Sandie Hawkins, left the company for personal reasons, according to an internal memo. Le Bourgeois, who joined TikTok from Amazon, and Marni Levine, a retail executive who was most recently at Meta, replaced her in the role. They report to Bob Kang, the global e-commerce chief of the Chinese company ByteDance, which owns TikTok.
The company seems to have moved away from an initial focus on promoting shopping through livestreams, a huge industry in Asia that has not found the same resonance in North America, according to several marketers.
Craig Brommers, the chief marketing officer of the retailer American Eagle, said that when the chain tested live shopping events on TikTok in the past year, viewership was “well under what brands are experiencing in Asia-Pacific.”
“The initial hypothesis was that live shopping would translate to North America — we haven’t seen that success,” Brommers said. He said his company was keen to learn about other tools from TikTok Shop under its new leadership, especially if it could make it “seamless” for Gen Z shoppers to, say, watch TikTok creators in American Eagle jeans, then buy them in a few clicks.
Le Bourgeois and Levine said videos with shopping buttons from brands and creators were now TikTok Shop’s main sales driver, though they said live shopping was still a priority and growing in the United States.
Creators who want to sell products from TikTok’s marketplace must choose from the assortment of items TikTok has available. Alyssa Pannozzi, an indoor cycling trainer and TikTok personality with more than 200,000 followers, said that when she looked at the sea of products, many came from “foreign shops that have a hodgepodge of items.”
The company has already run into accusations that it has enabled sales of shoddy or copyright-infringing products and has drawn comparisons to fast-growing Chinese shopping apps like Shein and Temu, which have flooded the market with cheap goods mailed straight from China.
TikTok’s executives pushed back against such comparisons, saying it viewed itself more like Amazon or China’s TMall and was using technology and manual moderation to enforce its policies, requiring “robust verification” for new sellers. The company said more than 90% of TikTok Shop’s sellers were U.S.-based, and Le Bourgeois emphasized that a slew of major brands like Benefit, Olay, L’Oreal and e.l.f. had joined or were planning to join TikTok Shop.
Pannozzi, 37, said she was invited to join TikTok Shop a few months ago but largely ignored it until July, when she saw that her feed was flooded with QVC-style pitches and wondered if she could make money from those. She has tried to feature items from sellers with positive reviews that suit her followers — like hair elastics and water bottles — finding major success a few weeks ago with an advertorial video that passed more than 2 million views and led to more than 600 sales of a Stanley-style tumbler. She said she expected to earn thousands of dollars in commissions and had joined an agency’s invite-only program for TikTok Shop creators.
“Now, I’m getting a bunch of inquiries every morning when I wake up,” she said. “TikTok to me now is completely different than it was a couple of months ago — just the whole vibe of it,” she added.
Paul Tran and Lynda Truong, the married founders of South Korean skin care company Love & Pebble, attended TikTok’s event with advertisers last week. They said in an interview that joining TikTok Shop this summer was “life changing,” and that TikTok’s offers for shoppers were generous.
Tran said the average price for the brand’s core product — a “beauty pops ice mask kit” for the face — was about $39. While it was often selling for $7, or even $11, less on TikTok because of the app’s discounts, he said he was still earning the same profit as he would from the standard price. Tran said he was not sure when TikTok might start taking a commission.
Levine said that TikTok could not elaborate on its future commission model but that it was “focused on getting the first of all the sellers to add their inventory to the platform.”
“The name of the game is to keep people on the platform as well, whether that’s through shopping, engagement of videos, whether it’s through dances,” Levine added. “It’s always about keeping people engaged and being a part of the community.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Shopping; Electronic commerce; Restaurants; Video recordings; Skin care

Business indexing term: Subject: Electronic commerce Restaurants

Location: China; New York; United States--US; Asia; North America

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Restaurants; Black Friday And Cyber Monday (Shopping); Mobile Commerce And Payments; AmazonCom Inc; International Relations; Tiktok (Bytedance); American Eagle; Gucci; North America; Apple Pay; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Madewell; United States; Mobile Applications; Company Reports; New York Fashion Week; Relocation Of Business; Shein (Fashion Label); Beijing Bytedance Technology Co Ltd; Temu (Website); Marni Group; H & M Hennes & Mauritz Ab; Cosmetics And Toiletries; East Village (Manhattan, Ny); Social Media; Instagram Inc; South Korea; Shopping And Retail; Advertising And Marketing; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Fashion And Apparel; Generation Z; Real Estate (Commercial); Business; Far East, So uth And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Southern States (Us); China

Title: TikTok Popularizes Products. Can It Sell Them, Too?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-11T23:10:08Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2863845487

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-popularizes-products-can-sell-them-too/docview/2863845487/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Turning the Tables On a Corporate Critic: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Farrell, Maureen

Publication info: Farrell, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/turning-tables-on-corporate-critic/docview/2857730030/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Francis deSouza, the chief executive of the biotechnology giant Illumina, didn't know what he was in for when he resisted Carl Icahn's demand in March for three seats on the company's board.
Mr. Icahn, the billionaire investor, hired a private investigator to dig up dirt on Mr. deSouza. He wrote letters to Illumina shareholders lambasting Mr. deSouza's leadership and publicized details of his divorce. By June, Mr. deSouza and the chairman of Illumina had resigned. One of Mr. Icahn's allies joined the board.
Such bare-knuckle tactics have made Mr. Icahn the nightmare of many a chief executive and changed the fate of some of America's best-known companies, including Apple, RJR Nabisco, Blockbuster and Netflix.
But in May, Mr. Icahn, 87, found out what it's like to be on the receiving end when Nathan Anderson, a 39-year-old short seller, published a report questioning the setup at Icahn Enterprises, his publicly traded company. Mr. Anderson suggested that the company was paying shareholders a dividend it could not afford. This month, Icahn Enterprises succumbed to the pressure, slashing its dividend by half.
"It is very, very embarrassing for Carl because this guy beat him and beat him at his own game," said Mark Stevens, the author of a 1993 book titled "King Icahn: The Biography of a Renegade Capitalist."
Mr. Icahn scoffed at comparisons between himself and Mr. Anderson, whose short-selling firm, Hindenburg Research, has made news recently for its attacks on companies like the electric vehicle maker Nikola and the Adani Group, one of India's most powerful conglomerates.
"He goes out and scares the little guy into selling stock at the worst time and taking big losses," Mr. Icahn said during one of several phone interviews over the past month, referring to everyday investors. He said Mr. Anderson hadn't called him before publishing the report, denying him the opportunity to present his side of things.
Short sellers borrow stock held by big investors and sell it in the open market, betting that its price will fall. If they bet right, they can buy the borrowed shares back at the lower price, return them and pocket the difference. Hindenburg publishes research supporting its short bets.
Mr. Icahn buys and holds stocks for years, he said, and makes changes from the inside. "I'm not telling you I'm a charity organization," he said. But "what we do is very admirable." In a recent earnings release, he said investors who bought his company's stock in January 2000 and reinvested their dividends would have done far better than any stock index. (As of July 31, he said, his investors would have an annualized return of 12.8 percent, compared with 6.9 percent for the S&P 500.)
Mr. Icahn was one of the first corporate raiders -- now known as activist investors -- who bought stakes in companies and pushed management to make changes. His main vehicle was a hedge fund until 2007, when he folded it into a publicly traded entity he also owned. The new entity, Icahn Enterprises, diversified beyond activism and holds stocks, real estate and other investments.
Mr. Icahn, who friends and acquaintances say often drinks a martini or two in between haranguing chief executives late at night, discovered his appetite for rattling company cages in the late 1970s.
Born in 1936 in Far Rockaway, Queens, the only child of a cantor at a synagogue and a schoolteacher, Mr. Icahn attended Princeton University, where he worked in the dining hall to help pay for his tuition. At his mother's urging, he attended New York University's medical school before dropping out. After a brief stint in the Army, he went to work on Wall Street. In 1968, he started his own investment firm with a loan from his uncle.
One of his first successes came when he pushed Tappan, a family-owned company that made ovens, to sell to a larger competitor. The campaign made him roughly $ 3 million.
He became a household name in the 1980s for his attempts to take over some of that decade's most prominent companies. In 1985, he bought Trans World Airlines. His tumultuous reign as chairman began with battles with the flight attendants' union that grounded the airline for weeks when they went on strike. It ended, mostly, when TWA declared bankruptcy in 1992. Along the way, Mr. Icahn piled debt on the company, which allowed him to take out cash and generate a profit for himself.
One of his big victories involved RJR Nabisco, the food and tobacco giant that he pushed to split into two beginning in 1996. When the company eventually spun off its food business, Mr. Icahn pocketed $ 884 million by the time he sold his stock in late 2000.
In 2011, he began a multiyear attack on the drug company Forest Labs, accusing it of destroying shareholder value. He ousted the chief executive and pushed for a sale. Shares of Forest Labs tripled during that time, netting Mr. Icahn about $ 2 billion in profit. He also successfully pushed Apple to buy back its stock in 2013, which made him $ 1.8 billion by the time he sold his stake.
Mr. Icahn estimated that his activist campaigns at a dozen companies, including Apple, eBay and PayPal, Forest Labs, Herbalife and Netflix, had helped generate $ 300 billion in additional value for the shareholders of those companies. The bulk of it came from Apple.
Forbes estimated Mr. Icahn's fortune at $ 18 billion earlier this year, although that number has been cut roughly in half since the Hindenburg report.
Still, Mr. Icahn's bets haven't always worked out for him or the target. When he joined the board of Blockbuster Video in 2005, John Antioco, the chief executive of the company, was surprised at how little Mr. Icahn knew about the business.
"Once Carl catches the bus, I'm not sure he knows what to do with it," Mr. Antioco said. Still, he said Mr. Icahn supported his plans to move Blockbuster's business online. In 2007, after a battle over compensation, Mr. Antioco resigned. He said he was taken aback when Mr. Icahn brought in a new chief executive who refocused on retail stores. Blockbuster declared bankruptcy a few years later.
Mr. Icahn, who called Blockbuster his "worst investment ever," said he blamed himself for allowing the new chief executive to focus on retail. "We almost made it great."
He has also lost money on some recent activist campaigns. The stock of Xerox, where he's the largest shareholder, is down since he took a stake in 2015. International Flavors & Fragrances is trading at roughly half the price that it was when he bought shares in early 2022. Illumina, which is now searching for a new chief executive, is down about 20 percent since Mr. Icahn began his campaign.
At the same time, friends said, money is not what drives Mr. Icahn.
"It sounds corny, but money is just not that important to Carl," said Buzzy Krongard, a director at Icahn Enterprises and a longtime friend who overlapped with him as an undergraduate at Princeton. "It's winning that's important," Mr. Krongard said. "Carl enjoys the battle itself."
Often, the battle extends beyond activism. In 2003, the real estate developer Harry Macklowe bought the General Motors Building in Manhattan for a record-setting price of $ 1.4 billion. Mr. Icahn, a friend of Mr. Macklowe's, had a lease at a below-market rate for one of the top floors of the 50-story building that was about to expire.
When one of the brokers for Mr. Macklowe's firm approached Mr. Icahn about a new lease with higher rent, he yelled at the broker to leave his office. He wouldn't engage in any conversations with Mr. Macklowe or his team, according to two people with knowledge of the negotiations. It was only when they began giving tours to prospective tenants and lined one up that Mr. Icahn agreed to negotiate a new lease.
A night owl who plays tennis almost every day, Mr. Icahn said he usually rises before the stock market opens but is known to work past midnight. Employees are known to keep notebooks next to their night stands in case their boss calls after they fall asleep, although Mr. Icahn said he rarely called employees after midnight.
Friends and associates of Mr. Icahn said he bets on everything from poker games to chess matches. Once, when he was in Las Vegas, he even bet a million dollars that the San Francisco 49ers would win the Super Bowl. (They won, netting him a few hundred thousand dollars.) But it's the high-stakes betting on companies -- and the chance to influence their future -- that he finds thrilling, they said.
Mr. Icahn and his 44-year-old son, Brett, are controlling shareholders of Icahn Enterprises, with 85 percent of the stock. Outside shareholders -- mostly retail investors -- own the rest. In 2020, Mr. Icahn said in regulatory filings that his son would succeed him by 2027, but he remains the face of the company for now.
In May, Hindenburg published research suggesting that Icahn Enterprises was valued more highly than its peers because it paid a lucrative dividend to shareholders despite reporting quarterly losses, which kept investors buying the stock. "Icahn has been using money taken in from new investors to pay out dividends to old investors," Mr. Anderson wrote, comparing it to a "Ponzi-like economic structure" that was unsustainable.
Mr. Anderson also suggested that if Icahn Enterprises stopped paying dividends, the value of its stock would fall, which meant that Mr. Icahn would struggle to repay billions of dollars he had borrowed against his personal stake in the company. That could set off a downward spiral. Mr. Anderson also accused Mr. Icahn of inflating the value of his private investments.
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice started investigations into Mr. Icahn's business practices after the Hindenburg report.
The stock of Icahn Enterprises fell more than 50 percent after the Hindenburg report, compelling Mr. Icahn to renegotiate the terms of his loans in July, which "significantly diffused" the effects of the report. This month, the company also cut its dividend by half.
He recently acknowledged that his firm's short bet against the S&P 500 had cost him roughly $ 9 billion over roughly six years and told investors that he would refocus on activism.
Mr. Anderson said Mr. Icahn could still struggle to repay his loans and refinance some of the debt given the high interest rates. "The next chapter of his financial high-wire act will be difficult."
Mr. Icahn said higher rates were immaterial to his company's performance. He is as determined as ever to use his billions of borrowed money to go after his next targets, using his activist's instinct honed over a nearly five-decade career.
When he sees a potentially winning investment, "you take as much money as you can that's available and buy that stock as far as you can go," Mr. Icahn said. "That's where you make the money."
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.
Photograph Carl Icahn with his son, Brett. Nathan Anderson, a short seller, "beat him at his own game," an Icahn biographer said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN YANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Mr. Icahn before he testified about a TWA takeover bid at a House subcommittee on aviation in June 1985. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HOSEFROS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: College football; Stock exchanges; Resignations; Bankruptcy; Investments; Activists; Corporate profits; Stockholders; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock exchanges Resignations Bankruptcy Corporate profits Stockholders Executives

Company / organization: Name: Forest Laboratories Inc; NAICS: 325412, 424210; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282; Name: Icahn Enterprises LP; NAICS: 523150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/21/business/carl-icahn-nathan-anderson-short-selling.html

Title: Turning the Tables On a Corporate Critic:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 28, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857730030

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/turning-tables-on-corporate-critic/docview/2857730030/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Corporate America’s Chief Critic, Carl Icahn, Gets His Comeuppance

Author: Farrell, Maureen

Publication info: Farrell, Maureen. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corporate-america-s-chief-critic-carl-icahn-gets/docview/2857687890/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Francis deSouza, the CEO of the biotechnology giant Illumina, didn’t know what he was in for when he resisted Carl Icahn’s demand in March for three seats on the company’s board.
Icahn, the billionaire investor, hired a private investigator to dig up dirt on deSouza. He wrote letters to Illumina shareholders lambasting deSouza’s leadership and publicized details of his divorce. By June, deSouza and the chair of Illumina had resigned. One of Icahn’s allies joined the board.
Such bare-knuckle tactics have made Icahn the nightmare of many a CEO and changed the fate of some of America’s best-known companies, including Apple, RJR Nabisco, Blockbuster and Netflix.
But in May, Icahn, 87, found out what it’s like to be on the receiving end when Nathan Anderson, a 39-year-old short seller, published a report questioning the setup at Icahn Enterprises, his publicly traded company. Anderson suggested that the company was paying shareholders a dividend it could not afford. This month, Icahn Enterprises succumbed to the pressure, slashing its dividend by half.
“It is very, very embarrassing for Carl because this guy beat him and beat him at his own game,” said Mark Stevens, the author of a 1993 book titled “King Icahn: The Biography of a Renegade Capitalist.”
Icahn scoffed at comparisons between himself and Anderson, whose short-selling firm Hindenburg Research has made news recently for its attacks on companies such as the electric vehicle maker Nikola and the Adani Group, one of India’s most powerful conglomerates.
“He goes out and scares the little guy into selling stock at the worst time and taking big losses,” Icahn said during one of several phone interviews over the past month, referring to everyday investors. He said Anderson had not called him before publishing the report, denying him the opportunity to present his side of things.
Short sellers borrow stock held by big investors and sell it in the open market, betting that its price will fall. If they bet right, they can buy the borrowed shares back at the lower price, return them and pocket the difference. Hindenburg publishes research supporting its short bets.
Icahn buys and holds stocks for years, he said, and makes changes from the inside. “I’m not telling you I’m a charity organization,” he said. But “what we do is very admirable.” In a recent earnings release, he said investors who bought his company’s stock in January 2000 and reinvested their dividends would have done far better than any stock index. (As of July 31, he said, his investors would have an annualized return of 12.8% compared with 6.9% for the S&P 500).
Icahn was one of the first corporate raiders — now known as activist investors — who bought stakes in companies and pushed management to make changes. His main vehicle was a hedge fund until 2007, when he folded it into a publicly traded entity he also owned. The new entity, Icahn Enterprises, diversified beyond activism and holds stocks, real estate and other investments.
Icahn, who friends and acquaintances say often drinks a martini or two in between haranguing CEOs late at night, discovered his appetite for rattling company cages in the late 1970s.
Born in 1936 in the Far Rockaway neighborhood of New York City’s Queens borough, the only child of a cantor at a synagogue and a schoolteacher, Icahn attended Princeton University, where he worked in the dining hall to help pay for his tuition. At his mother’s urging, he attended New York University’s medical school before dropping out. After a brief stint in the Army, he went to work on Wall Street. In 1968, he started his own investment firm with a loan from his uncle.
One of his first successes came when he pushed Tappan, a family-owned company that made ovens, to sell to a larger competitor. The campaign made him roughly $3 million.
He became a household name in the 1980s for his attempts to take over some of that decade’s most prominent companies. In 1985, he bought Trans World Airlines. His tumultuous reign as chair began with battles with the flight attendants union that grounded the airline for weeks when they went on strike. It ended, mostly, when TWA declared bankruptcy in 1992. Along the way, Icahn piled debt on the company, which allowed him to take out cash and generate a profit for himself.
One of his big victories involved RJR Nabisco, the food and tobacco giant that he pushed to split into two beginning in 1996. When the company eventually spun off its food business, Icahn pocketed $884 million by the time he sold his stock in late 2000.
In 2011, he began a multiyear attack on the drug company Forest Labs, accusing it of destroying shareholder value. He ousted the CEO and pushed for a sale. Shares of Forest Labs tripled during that time, netting Icahn about $2 billion in profit. He also successfully pushed Apple to buy back its stock in 2013, which made him $1.8 billion by the time he sold his stake.
Icahn estimated that his activist campaigns at a dozen companies, including Apple, eBay and PayPal, Forest Labs, Herbalife and Netflix, had helped generate $300 billion in additional value for the shareholders of those companies. The bulk of it came from Apple.
Forbes estimated Icahn’s fortune at $18 billion earlier this year, although that number has been cut roughly in half since the Hindenburg report.
Still, Icahn’s bets haven’t always worked out for him or the target. When he joined the board of Blockbuster Video in 2005, John Antioco, the CEO of the company, was surprised at how little Icahn knew about the business.
“Once Carl catches the bus, I’m not sure he knows what to do with it,” Antioco said. Still, he said Icahn supported his plans to move Blockbuster’s business online. In 2007, after a battle over compensation, Antioco resigned. He said he was taken aback when Icahn brought in a new CEO who refocused on retail stores. Blockbuster declared bankruptcy a few years later.
Icahn, who called Blockbuster his “worst investment ever,” said he blamed himself for allowing the new CEO to focus on retail. “We almost made it great.”
Icahn has also lost money on some recent activist campaigns. The stock of Xerox, where he’s the largest shareholder, is down since he took a stake in 2015. International Flavors & Fragrances is trading at roughly half the price that it was when he bought shares in early 2022. Illumina, which is now searching for a new CEO, is down about 20% since Icahn began his campaign.
At the same time, friends said, money is not what drives Icahn.
“It sounds corny, but money is just not that important to Carl,” said Buzzy Krongard, a director at Icahn Enterprises and a longtime friend who overlapped with him as an undergraduate at Princeton. “It’s winning that’s important,” Krongard said. “Carl enjoys the battle itself.”
Often, the battle extends beyond activism. In 2003, real estate developer Harry Macklowe bought the General Motors Building in New York City for a record-setting price of $1.4 billion. Icahn, a friend of Macklowe‘s, had a lease at a below-market rate for one of the top floors of the 50-story building that was about to expire.
When one of the brokers for Macklowe’s firm approached Icahn about a new lease with higher rent, he yelled at the broker to leave his office. He wouldn’t engage in any conversations with Macklowe or his team, according to two people with knowledge of the negotiations. It was only when they began giving tours to prospective tenants and lined one up that Icahn agreed to negotiate a new lease.
A night owl who plays tennis almost every day, Icahn said he usually rises before the stock market opens but is known to work past midnight. Employees are known to keep notebooks next to their night stands in case their boss calls after they fall asleep, although Icahn said he rarely calls employees after midnight.
Friends and associates of Icahn said he bets on everything from poker games to chess matches. Once, when he was in Las Vegas, he even bet $1 million that the San Francisco 49ers would win the Super Bowl. (They won, netting him a few hundred thousand dollars). But it’s the high-stakes betting on companies — and the chance to influence their future — that he finds thrilling, they said.
Icahn and his 44-year-old son, Brett, are controlling shareholders of Icahn Enterprises, with 85% of the stock. Outside shareholders — mostly retail investors — own the rest. In 2020, Icahn said in regulatory filings that his son would succeed him by 2027, but he remains the face of the company for now.
In May, Hindenburg published research suggesting that Icahn Enterprises was valued more highly than its peers because it paid a lucrative dividend to shareholders despite reporting quarterly losses, which kept investors buying the stock. “Icahn has been using money taken in from new investors to pay out dividends to old investors,” Anderson wrote, comparing it to a “Ponzi-like economic structure” that was unsustainable.
Anderson also suggested that if Icahn Enterprises stopped paying dividends, the value of its stock would fall, which meant that Icahn would struggle to repay billions of dollars he had borrowed against his personal stake in the company. That could set off a downward spiral. Anderson also accused Icahn of inflating the value of his private investments.
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice started investigations into Icahn’s business practices after the Hindenburg report.
The stock of Icahn Enterprises fell more than 50% after the Hindenburg report, compelling Icahn to renegotiate the terms of his loans in July, which “significantly diffused” the effects of the report. This month, the company also cut its dividend by half.
He recently acknowledged that his firm’s short bet against the S&P 500 had cost him roughly $9 billion over roughly six years and told investors he would refocus on activism.
Anderson said Icahn could still struggle to repay his loans and refinance some of the debt given the high interest rates. “The next chapter of his financial high wire act will be difficult.”
Icahn said higher rates were immaterial to his company’s performance. He is as determined as ever to use his billions of borrowed money to go after his next targets, using his activist’s instinct honed over a nearly five-decade career.
When he sees a potentially winning investment, “you take as much money as you can that’s available and buy that stock as far as you can go,” Icahn said. “That’s where you make the money.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Stock exchanges; Bankruptcy; Investments; Activists; Stockholders; College football; Resignations; Corporate profits

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock exchanges Bankruptcy Stockholders Resignations Corporate profits

Location: New York; United States--US; New York City New York

People: Icahn, Carl C

Company / organization: Name: Forest Laboratories Inc; NAICS: 325412, 424210; Name: Icahn Enterprises LP; NAICS: 523150; Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

Identifier / keyword: Financial Brokers; Trans World Airlines (Twa); Nikola Motor Co; San Francisco (Calif); Executive Compensation; India; Hindenburg Research; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Netflix Inc; Banking And Financial Institutions; Stevens, Mark (1951 ); Desouza, Francis; Nabisco; Herbalife Ltd; New York City; United States; Company R eports; Biotechnology And Bioengineering; Blockbuster Inc; Bankruptcies; Justice Department; Shareholder Rights And Activism; Corporations; Forbes Magazine; Princeton University; Poker (Card Game); Ebay Inc; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Credit And Debt; Video Releases (Entertainment); Adani Group; Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index; General Motors; Shopping And Retail; Macklowe, Harry; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Forest Laboratories Inc; Executives And Management (Theory); Icahn, Carl C; Appraisals And Valuation (Property); New York University; Stocks And Bonds; United States Defense And Military Forces; Standard & Poor's Corp; Icahn Enterprises L P; Real Estate (Commercial); Lee, Thomas H; Labor And Jobs; Securities And Exchange Commission; Magazines; Short Selling; Family Business; San Francisco 49ers; Anderson, Nathan (1984 ); Queens (Nyc); Las Vegas (Nev); Far Rockaway (Queens, Ny); Airlines And Airplanes; Colleges And Universities; Strikes; Business; Illumina Inc; United States Army; Paypal

Title: Corporate America’s Chief Critic, Carl Icahn, Gets His Comeuppance

Publication title: New Yo rk Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 27, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-27T23:01:50Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857687890

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/corporate-america-s-chief-critic-carl-icahn-gets/docview/2857687890/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tech Elite Bankroll Mystery Plan to Construct City From Scratch: [National Desk]

Author: Dougherty, Conor; Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor; Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-elite-bankroll-mystery-plan-construct-city/docview/2857202561/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A mysterious company has spent $ 800 million in an effort to buy thousands of acres of San Francisco Bay Area land. The people behind the deals are said to be a who's who of the tech industry.
In 2017, Michael Moritz, the billionaire venture capitalist, sent a note to a potential investor about what he described as an unusual opportunity: a chance to invest in the creation of a new California city.
The site was in a corner of the San Francisco Bay Area where land was cheap. Mr. Moritz and others had dreams of transforming tens of thousands of acres into a bustling metropolis that, according to the pitch, could generate thousands of jobs and be as walkable as Paris or the West Village in New York.
He painted a kind of urban blank slate where everything from design to construction methods and new forms of governance could be rethought. And it would all be a short distance from San Francisco and Silicon Valley. "Let me know if this tickles your fancy," he said in the note, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times.
Since then, a company called Flannery Associates has been buying large plots of land in a largely agricultural region 60 miles northeast of San Francisco. The company, which has little information public about its operations, has committed more than $ 800 million to secure thousands of acres of farmland, court documents show. One parcel after another, Flannery made offers to every landowner for miles, paying several times the market rate, whether the land had been listed for sale or not.
The purchases by a company that no one in the area had heard of and whose business was a mystery have become the subject of heavy speculation and developing news stories, rattling landowners, local supervisors, the nearby Air Force base and members of Congress. Was Disney buying it for a new theme park? Could the purchases be linked to China? A deepwater port?
Flannery is the brainchild of Jan Sramek, 36, a former Goldman Sachs trader who has quietly courted some of the tech industry's biggest names as investors, according to the pitch and people familiar with the matter. The company's ambitions expand on the 2017 pitch: Take an arid patch of brown hills cut by a two-lane highway between suburbs and rural land, and convert into it into a community with tens of thousands of residents, clean energy, public transportation and dense urban life.
The company's investors, whose identities have not been previously reported, are a who's who of Silicon Valley, according to three people who were not authorized to speak publicly about the plans.
They include Mr. Moritz; Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, venture capitalist and Democratic donor; Marc Andreessen and Chris Dixon, investors at the Andreessen Horowitz venture capital firm; Patrick and John Collison, the sibling co-founders of the payments company Stripe; Laurene Powell Jobs, founder of the Emerson Collective; and Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross, entrepreneurs turned investors. Andreessen Horowitz is also a backer. It was unclear how much each had invested.
Brian Brokaw, a representative for the investor group, said in a statement that the group was made up of "Californians who believe that Solano County's and California's best days are ahead." He said the group planned to start working with Solano County residents and elected officials, as well as with Travis Air Force Base, next week.
In California, housing has long been an intractable problem, and Silicon Valley's moguls have long been frustrated with the Bay Area's real estate shortage, and the difficulty of building in California generally, as their work forces have exploded. Companies like Google have clashed with cities like Palo Alto and Mountain View over expanding their headquarters, while their executives have funded pro-development politicians and the "Yes in my backyard" activists who have pushed for looser development and zoning laws in hopes of making it easier to build faster and taller.
The practical need for more space has at times morphed into lofty visions of building entire cities from scratch. Several years ago, Y Combinator, the start-up incubator, announced an initiative with dreams of turning empty land into a new economy and society. Years before that, Peter Thiel, the PayPal co-founder and billionaire Facebook investor, invested in the Seasteading Institute, an attempt to build a new society on lily pad-like structures in the law-and-tax-free open ocean.
But while these ideas have garnered lots of attention and curiosity -- lauded in some corners for vision and derided in others for hubris -- they have been little more than talk.
As Flannery began seeking property, it bought so much land, so fast, that it spooked locals who had no idea who the buyer was or the plans it had in mind. Catherine Moy, the mayor of Fairfield, Calif., started posting about the project on Facebook several years ago after she got a call from a farmer about some mystery buyer making offers throughout the county. In an interview, Ms. Moy said she had gone to the county assessor's office and found that Flannery had purchased tens of thousands of acres.
John Garamendi, a Democrat who along with Mike Thompson, another Democrat, represents the surrounding region in Congress, said he had been trying to figure out the company's identity for four years.
"I couldn't find out anything," he said.
On Friday, he said that had suddenly changed. This week representatives for Flannery reached out to him and other elected officials requesting meetings about their plans. That meeting is now being scheduled, he said.
"This is their first effort, ever, to talk to any of the local representatives, myself included," he said.
The land that Flannery has been purchasing is not zoned for residential use, and even in his 2017 pitch, Mr. Moritz acknowledged that rezoning could "clearly be challenging" -- a nod to California's notoriously difficult and litigious development process.
To pull off the project, the company will almost certainly have to use the state's initiative system to get Solano County residents to vote on it. The hope is that voters will be enticed by promises of thousands of local jobs, increased tax revenue and investments in infrastructure like parks, a performing arts center, shopping, dining and a trade school.
The financial gains could be huge, Mr. Moritz said in the 2017 pitch. He estimated the return could be many times the initial investment just from the rezoning, and far more if and when they started building.
"If the plans materialize anywhere close to what is being contemplated, this should be a spectacular investment," Mr. Moritz wrote.
The Bay Area is among the country's most expensive regions, even after rent and home prices fell after the pandemic. Economists and housing experts have for decades blamed a longstanding housing shortage and California's inability to build enough to meet demand.
Mr. Moritz nodded to this in the email to the investor, arguing that "this effort should relieve some of the Silicon Valley pressures we all feel -- rising home prices, homelessness, congestion etc." He added that his group had secured some 1,400 acres for less than $ 5,000 per acre. The price per acre has since escalated, and the company's most recent purchases have neared $ 20,000 per acre, according to court documents and people familiar with the matter.
The purchases burst into public view this spring when lawyers for Flannery filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court, accusing landowners of colluding to inflate prices.
The group focused on Jepson Prairie and Montezuma Hills, an agricultural patch of eastern Solano County between the cities of Fairfield and Rio Vista, according to the lawsuit. This area is mostly unpopulated and covered with ranches, windmills and power lines.
In November 2018, the company sent offers to "most landowners in this area," the lawsuit said, and included incentives such as allowing sellers to retain income from wind turbines, as well as stay on the properties rent-free under long-term lease-back agreements. Over the five years, the company purchased some 140 properties from 400 owners, the lawsuit said.
This month, a lawyer representing landowners jointly filed a motion to dismiss the case. In July, three landowners said they had reached a potential settlement with Flannery. Other owners could not be reached for comment this week, or had declined to do so.
As the offers continued and prices escalated, landowners in Solano County started buzzing about who was buying so much land for so much money.
"They would come with an offer of four and five times over the market at the time," Ms. Moy said. "They were deals that they couldn't pass up."
Flannery's offers were creating multimillionaires across the county, but no one seemed to know what the mysterious company intended to do with land that now amounted to a large chunk of the entire county.
That changed last week, when residents started receiving texts and emails with a poll gauging their opinions on a number of questions. One asked them to rate the favorability of several names including "Joe Biden," "Donald Trump" and "Flannery Associates." Another question began with a description of a possible ballot initiative for a project that "would include a new city with tens of thousands of new homes, a large solar energy farm, orchards with over a million new trees, and over 10,000 acres of new parks and open space."
Ms. Moy cited poor infrastructure, including the two-lane highway bisecting the region that she said was already clogged by super-commuters driving to the edges of the Bay Area and beyond. The area is also prone to regular droughts and is at high risk for wildfires.
"It seems very pie in the sky," she said.
Sheelagh McNeill contributed research. Yiwen Lu contributed reporting.
Sheelagh McNeill contributed research. Yiwen Lu contributed reporting.
Photograph Michael Moritz, top, a billionaire venture capitalist, is behind Flannery Associates, a company that has spent $ 800 million in an effort to buy thousands of acres of San Francisco Bay Area land. John Garamendi, a Democrat who represents the area in Congress, said he had been trying to figure out what was going on for four years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX FLYNN/BLOOMBERG; RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS; JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) This article appeared in print on page A1, A16.

Subject: Landowners; Housing prices; Venture capital; Land purchases; High tech industries

Business indexing term: Subject: Housing prices Venture capital High tech industries

Location: Silicon Valley-California; San Francisco Bay; California; New York; United States--US; San Francisco California; Solano County California

People: Moritz, Michael

Company / organization: Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120; Name: Flannery Associates (California); NAICS: 531390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/25/business/land-purchases-solano-county.html

Title: Tech Elite Bankroll Mystery Plan to Construct City From Scratch:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 26, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857202561

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tech-elite-bankroll-mystery-plan-construct-city/docview/2857202561/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Silicon Valley Elite Who Want to Build a City From Scratch

Author: Dougherty, Conor; Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Dougherty, Conor; Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-elite-who-want-build-city-scratch/docview/2857150606/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In 2017, Michael Moritz, a billionaire venture capitalist, sent a note to a potential investor about what he described as an unusual opportunity: a chance to invest in the creation of a new California city.
The site was in a corner of the San Francisco Bay Area where land was cheap. Moritz and others had dreams of transforming tens of thousands of acres into a bustling metropolis that, according to the pitch, could generate thousands of jobs and be as walkable as Paris or the West Village in New York.
He painted a kind of urban blank slate where everything from design to construction methods and new forms of governance could be rethought. And it would all be a short distance from San Francisco and Silicon Valley. “Let me know if this tickles your fancy,” he said in the note, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times.
Since then, a company called Flannery Associates has been buying large plots of land in a largely agricultural region 60 miles northeast of San Francisco. The company, which has little information public about its operations, has committed more than $800 million to secure thousands of acres of farmland, court documents show. One parcel after another, Flannery made offers to every landowner for miles, paying several times the market rate, whether the land had been listed for sale or not.
The purchases by a company that no one in the area had heard of and whose business was a mystery have become the subject of heavy speculation and developing news stories, rattling landowners, local supervisors, the nearby Air Force base and members of Congress. Was Disney buying it for a new theme park? Could the purchases be linked to China? A deep-water port?
Flannery is the brainchild of Jan Sramek, 36, a former Goldman Sachs trader who has quietly courted some of the tech industry’s biggest names as investors, according to the pitch and people familiar with the matter. The company’s ambitions expand on the 2017 pitch: Take an arid patch of brown hills cut by a two-lane highway between suburbs and rural land, and convert it into a community with tens of thousands of residents, clean energy, public transportation and dense urban life.
The company’s investors, whose identities have not been previously reported, are a who’s who of Silicon Valley, according to three people who were not authorized to speak publicly about the plans. They include Moritz; Reid Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, venture capitalist and Democratic donor; Marc Andreessen and Chris Dixon, investors at the Andreessen Horowitz venture capital firm; Patrick and John Collison, the sibling co-founders of payments company Stripe; Laurene Powell Jobs, founder of the Emerson Collective; and Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross, entrepreneurs-turned-investors. Andreessen Horowitz is also a backer. It was unclear how much each had invested.
Brian Brokaw, a representative for the investor group, said in a statement that the group was made up of “Californians who believe that Solano County’s and California’s best days are ahead.” He said the group planned to start working with Solano County residents and elected officials, as well as with Travis Air Force Base, next week.
In California, housing has long been an intractable problem, and Silicon Valley’s moguls have long been frustrated with the Bay Area’s real estate shortage, and the difficulty of building in California generally, as their workforces have exploded. Companies like Google have clashed with cities like Palo Alto and Mountain View over expanding their headquarters, while their executives have funded pro-development politicians and the “Yes in my backyard” activists who have pushed for looser development and zoning laws in hopes of making it easier to build faster and taller.
The practical need for more space has at times morphed into lofty visions of building entire cities from scratch. Several years ago, Y Combinator, a startup incubator, announced an initiative with dreams of turning empty land into a new economy and society. Years before that, Peter Thiel, the PayPal co-founder and billionaire Facebook investor, invested in the Seasteading Institute, an attempt to build a new society on lily padlike structures in the law-and-tax free open ocean.
But while these ideas have garnered lots of attention and curiosity — lauded in some corners for vision and derided in others for hubris — they have been little more than talk.
As Flannery began seeking property, it bought so much land, so fast, that it spooked locals who had no idea who the buyer was or the plans it had in mind. Catherine Moy, mayor of Fairfield, California, started posting about the project on Facebook several years ago after she got a call from a farmer about some mystery buyer making offers throughout the county. In an interview, Moy said she had gone to the county assessor’s office and found that Flannery had purchased tens of thousands of acres.
Rep. John Garamendi, D-Calif., who along with Mike Thompson, another Democrat, represents the surrounding region in Congress, said he had been trying to figure out the company’s identity for four years.
“I couldn’t find out anything,” he said.
On Friday, he said that had suddenly changed. This week, representatives for Flannery reached out to him and other elected officials requesting meetings about their plans. That meeting is now being scheduled, he said.
“This is their first effort, ever, to talk to any of the local representatives, myself included,” he said.
The land that Flannery has been purchasing is not zoned for residential use, and even in his 2017 pitch, Moritz acknowledged that rezoning could “clearly be challenging” — a nod to California’s notoriously difficult and litigious development process.
To pull off the project, the company will almost certainly have to use the state’s initiative system to get Solano County residents to vote on it. The hope is that voters will be enticed by promises of thousands of local jobs; increased tax revenue; and investments in infrastructure like parks, a performing arts center, shopping, dining and a trade school.
The financial gains could be huge, Moritz said in the 2017 pitch. He estimated the return could be many times the initial investment just from the rezoning, and far more if and when they started building.
“If the plans materialize anywhere close to what is being contemplated, this should be a spectacular investment,” Moritz wrote.
The Bay Area is among the country’s most expensive regions, even after rent and home prices fell after the pandemic. Economists and housing experts have for decades blamed a long-standing housing shortage and California’s inability to build enough to meet demand.
Moritz nodded to this in the email to the investor, arguing “this effort should relieve some of the Silicon Valley pressures we all feel — rising home prices, homelessness, congestion etc.” He added that his group had secured some 1,400 acres for less than $5,000 per acre. The price per acre has since escalated, and the company’s most recent purchases have neared $20,000 per acre, according to court documents and people familiar with the matter.
The purchases burst into public view this spring, when lawyers for Flannery filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court, accusing landowners of colluding to inflate prices.
The group focused on Jepson Prairie and Montezuma Hills, an agricultural patch of eastern Solano County between the cities of Fairfield and Rio Vista, according to the lawsuit. This area is mostly unpopulated and covered with ranches, windmills and power lines.
In November 2018, the company sent offers to “most landowners in this area,” the lawsuit said, and included incentives such as allowing sellers to retain income from wind turbines, as well as stay on the properties rent-free under long-term lease-back agreements. Over the five years, the company purchased some 140 properties from 400 owners, the lawsuit said.
This month, a lawyer representing landowners jointly filed a motion to dismiss the case. In July, three landowners said they had reached a potential settlement with Flannery. Other owners could not be reached for comment this week or had declined to do so.
As the offers continued and prices escalated, landowners in Solano County started buzzing about who was buying so much land for so much money.
“They would come with an offer of four and five times over the market at the time,” Moy said. “They were deals that they couldn’t pass up.”
Flannery’s offers were creating multimillionaires across the county, but no one seemed to know what the mysterious company intended to do with land that now amounted to a large chunk of the entire county.
That changed last week, when residents started receiving texts and emails with a poll gauging their opinions on a number of questions. One asked them to rate the favorability of several names including “Joe Biden,” “Donald Trump” and “Flannery Associates.” Another question began with a description of a possible ballot initiative for a project that “would include a new city with tens of thousands of new homes, a large solar energy farm, orchards with over a million new trees, and over 10,000 acres of new parks and open space.”
Moy cited poor infrastructure, including the two-lane highway bisecting the region that she said was already clogged by super-commuters driving to the edges of the Bay Area and beyond. The area is also prone to regular droughts and is at high risk for wildfires.
“It seems very pie in the sky,” she said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Landowners; Housing prices; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Housing prices Venture capital

Location: Silicon Valley-California; California; New York; United States--US; San Francisco California; Solano County California

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Andreessen Horowitz; NAICS: 523910; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

Identifier /keyword: Military Bases And Installations; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Zoning; Real Estate (Commercial); Walt Disney Company; Palo Alto (Calif); Stripe Inc; Shortages; Livestock; Venture Capital; United States; Seasteading Institute; Agriculture And Farming; Alternative And Renewable Energy; United States Air Force; Linkedin Corporation; Careers And Professions; Corporations; Collison, John; Hoffman, Reid Garrett; Referendums; California; Andreessen Horowitz; Suits And Litigation (Civil); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Y Combinator; Thiel, Peter A; Google Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); United States Politics And Government; Fairfield University; Wildfires; Wind Power; Computers And The Internet; State Legislatures; Entrepreneurship; Dixon, Chris (1972 ); Law And Legislation; News And News Media; Moritz, Michael Jonathan; Facebook Inc; Democratic Party; West Village (Manhattan, Ny); Text Messaging; San Francisco (Calif); Polls And Public Opinion; Area Planning And Renewal; Stocks And Bonds; United States Defense And Military Forces; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Andreessen, Marc L; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Silicon Valley (Calif); Trump, Donald J; Windmills; Solar Energy; Business; American Jobs Plan (2021); Solano County (Calif); United States Economy; Urban Areas; Start Ups; New York Times; Infrastructure (Public Works); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Mountain View (Calif); China; Paypal

Title: The Silicon Valley Elite Who Want to Build a City From Scratch

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 25, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-25T22:05:37Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2857150606

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/silicon-valley-elite-who-want-build-city-scratch/docview/2857150606/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 25, 2023

Last updated: 2024-11-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Internet Empire Orbiting Earth: [National Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/internet-empire-orbiting-earth/docview/2850452678/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elon Musk is known for Tesla, his pioneering electric vehicle company, and his bumpy acquisition of Twitter, rechristened as the social media company X. But he is also a leading industrialist in the skies. Since Mr. Musk's private rocket fleet, SpaceX, has sent some 4,500 satellites into orbit. Using Mr. Musk's Starlink technology, the satellites communicate with terminals on Earth to beam high-speed internet around the world.
Adam Satariano is one of the journalists behind a recent Times article about Starlink's growth and influence. He joined "The Daily" podcast to explain his reporting. Here is an edited excerpt from his conversation with the host, Sabrina Tavernise.
So Adam, tell us where this reporting that you've done on Starlink started for you.
Part of it is just geeky curiosity. I learned about this technology, which is essentially satellites orbiting the Earth beaming an internet connection down to just about anywhere. It seems like this amazing technology, particularly when you think of all the parts of the Earth that don't have internet connection. Then you add in the fact that it's controlled by Elon Musk.
So a group of colleagues and I wanted to understand the scale of this. We found a database managed by a researcher in Hawaii. There are more than 8,000 active satellites spinning around the Earth right now. And more than half of those are controlled by Elon Musk and his company.
So one company is responsible for 50 percent of the satellites in space.
Exactly, and the more you learn about it, you start to see the geopolitical consequences and other important ways in which this technology can be influencing the world.
Let's start at how he came to dominate so much of the sky around the planet. Where does that story start?
This starts more than 20 years ago. And we need to rewind a bit and remember that Elon Musk is not the person that we know now at this period of time. He was part of a group called the PayPal Mafia, who built up PayPal, the payments company, which eventually sold to eBay for a great deal of money. So that's the initial source of his wealth.
But he is also fascinated by space, and ideas of being an interplanetary species, and colonizing Mars. I spoke to one British engineer named Martin Sweeting who got together with Musk in 2001.
What Sweeting and his company, Surrey Technology, were quite good at was developing smaller satellites. Instead of big, hulking satellites the size of a bus that get launched far into space, these were much smaller satellites, which are less expensive to develop. And they can sit in low-Earth orbit, which is closer to the planet.
When did the idea for Starlink come into focus?
We don't know exactly when he hatched this grand plan. Other companies in the 1990s and in the 2000s had tried satellite internet, but almost all of them went bust. It is incredibly expensive to launch a satellite into space. And to make this work, you need lots of them.
And at this point, what was he aiming for? What was the business strategy?
Elon Musk says the opportunity is massive. If they get something like 3 percent of the overall global internet market, that would be at least $ 30 billion a year.
To make this work, you need a lot of satellites. And launching them is expensive. So how did he solve this cost problem?
Well, it was never a foregone conclusion that he would. But he had this advantage that he could lean into, which is around the same time he's talking to Martin Sweeting, Musk founds a company called SpaceX, in 2002.
This was a private space fleet, but the a company that almost put him into bankruptcy. And this is around the time when Tesla was also struggling. So this is a period when Musk is not assuredly going to be on the sort of billionaire list that he is today. But eventually, by late 2015, early 2016, SpaceX has a major breakthrough.
And that breakthrough is that their rockets could land back on Earth and be reusable. Most rockets, they go into space, and when they come back, disintegrate. But here, they could come back and land, and eventually be reused.
So if you are creating a satellite internet company where you need hundreds, thousands of these things put up into orbit, this is a key advantage. You essentially have an express train to take up these satellites, release them in orbit, come back down and eventually do it again.
This is the solution to the cost problem of needing to send so many satellites up into space, right?
He's able to do it at a scale that's the envy of others who have long tried to do the same. And in 2019 they launched their first 60 or so satellites into orbit. Now, they're up to more than 4,500, and they have more than 1.5 million customers.
SpaceX launched Starlink satellites from Kennedy Space Center in Florida last May. The company has more than 4,500 satellites in space. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MALCOLM DENEMARK/FLORIDA TODAY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Internet; Satellites; Earth

People: Musk, Elon; Sweeting, Martin

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/14/pageoneplus/15insider-daily.html

Title: The Internet Empire Orbiting Earth:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 15, 2023

column: Times Insider

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2850452678

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/internet-empire-orbiting-earth/docview/2850452678/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Cautionary Tale From Venmo: Your Sensitive Data Is Out There: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cautionary-tale-venmo-your-sensitive-data-is-out/docview/2848650256/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The mobile wallet service is a cautionary tale of how apps born at least a decade ago may be exposing more information than you would like.
There's an app for snooping on your friends, family and colleagues to find out about their fancy dinners, the people they are dating and the parties they are attending that you weren't invited to.
It's not a social networking app like Facebook or Snapchat. It's Venmo, the app that became popular more than a decade ago by enabling people to send mobile payments to one another and to post those transactions, often in the form of cute emojis, on a public timeline.
The snooping works the other way around, too. Even if you seldom use Venmo today, the app is most likely leaking sensitive information about you to the general public.
How do I know? I'm embarrassed to admit it, but I recently discovered that my contacts list, which includes the names of people in my phone book, was published on Venmo for anyone using the app to see.
That's because more than a decade ago, Venmo made people's contact lists visible to its users. It created an option to hide the address book only two years ago, long after I had stopped using the app.
Venmo is a strong example of how even as social norms shift on the ways we use technology, the companies and their apps don't change much. Venmo was founded in 2009 as a music start-up that let users buy songs from bands through a text message. By the time eBay acquired it in 2013, it had become a mobile wallet service that was trendy among younger people who were gung-ho about sharing information about themselves online.
At the time, social networking was novel, and posting your thoughts, movements and achievements for everyone to know about was cutting edge, not sinister. Since then, we have learned the hard way that sharing such seemingly innocuous information can be hazardous. Stalkers, employers or data brokers can use the data to study our whereabouts and activities to target us.
But Venmo remains an app with a strong social networking element, one of many in a generation of apps that are now nearly 15 years old. And if you have apps and internet accounts from then that are on autopilot, it's best to revisit them periodically to check their settings so that you can safeguard your privacy. If you no longer find value in the service, the safest bet may be to delete the account.
Before we get into that, let's dive into why Venmo remains a privacy concern and what to do to protect your data.
Venmo Transactions
In the early 2010s, as smartphones became popular, Venmo rode the coattails of companies like Facebook and Twitter, which brought the concept of a public timeline into the mainstream. Similar to those networks, Venmo allowed people to publicly post to a feed, in its case details of payment transactions, including the dollar amount, time, date and a description, such as a pizza or taxicab emoji.
At the time, Braintree, the payments company that bought Venmo in 2012 before it was purchased by eBay, said Venmo had created "rave-worthy experiences" to simplify mobile payments between smartphone users. (Venmo is now owned by PayPal, which was spun off from eBay in 2015.)
Venmo has made some changes over the years to protect its users' privacy. In 2021, it disabled its global feed, a stream where users could see Venmo transactions among strangers.
But critics say the app still falls short. Today, you can see transactions among people who are not your friends if you visit their profiles.
Venmo is still set by default to publicly share when you receive or make a payment. There's an option to make the transaction private, but if you use the app quickly and don't notice the setting, you could unknowingly broadcast the payments between you and others.
"It's not just that I went out to pizza with this person," said Gennie Gebhart, a managing director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights nonprofit. "It's a pattern of who you live with, interact with and do business with, and how it changes over time."
Last month, The Guardian discovered through a Venmo feed that an aide for Justice Clarence Thomas was taking payments from lawyers who have had business with the Supreme Court, a potential conflict of interest. The aide has since hidden his Venmo activity from public view.
While the idea of posting pizza and beer emojis and dollar amounts could sound like a fun way to tell others that you are out and about, there may eventually be consequences. Those transactions could be used to study your movements or, in the case of Justice Thomas, inadvertently disclose relationships.
In 2017, Hang Do Thi Duc, a data researcher who was at the Mozilla Foundation, published Public by Default, an interactive graphic summarizing the intimate details scraped from 208 million Venmo transactions. The graphic homed in on the daily lives of several Venmo users, including a cannabis dealer, a food cart vendor and a married couple splitting bills and paying off a loan together.
Venmo said in a statement that it had worked to change its privacy measures for customers and that privacy settings could be controlled within its app. "The privacy and safety of all Venmo users is always a top priority," the company said.
To prevent your day-to-day life from being broadcast on Venmo, make sure to change the settings. Inside the app, click on the Me tab, tap the settings icon and select Privacy. Under default privacy settings, select Private. Then, under the "More" section in Privacy, click "Past Transactions" and make sure to set that to "Change All to Private."
Your Contacts List
Venmo has made the contacts list, which can be generated from your smartphone's address book or your Facebook friends list, viewable to any other user on the app.
That can make a lot of information public. In 2021, my colleague Ryan Mac, who was then at BuzzFeed News, used Venmo to discover President Biden's account and personal contacts list. Mr. Biden later deleted his Venmo account.
On a personal level, a public address book can reveal a new romantic partner to an ex. For professionals, it could expose a doctor's patients, a journalist's sources or a salesperson's clients.
To hide your contacts list from public view, visit the privacy settings, click on Friends List and select Private. Also, toggle off the option for "appear in other users' friends lists."
Review, Then Review Again
All tech companies change their data-sharing features and settings over time. So take a moment to scroll through your phone and review the settings inside apps you haven't used in a while to see if there's something you missed.
Ms. Do Thi Duc, who is now a graphics editor at The New York Times, said she wasn't surprised that Venmo was still making headlines, because the app relied on people's public oversharing as a marketing mechanism. She said she deleted her Venmo account when conducting her research on the company.
After writing this column, I did the same.
Photograph Venmo's app, like many others of its era, hasn't changed much even as social norms on how we use technology have shifted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK SEMANSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Mobile commerce; Smartphones; Privacy; Emojis; Social networks; Social norms; Software; Digital wallets

Business indexing term: Subject: Mobile commerce Smartphones Social networks

Company / organization: Name: Venmo LLC; NAICS: 522320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/09/technology/personaltech/venmo-privacy-oversharing.html

Title: A Cautionary Tale From Venmo: Your Sensitive Data Is Out There:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 11, 2023

column: Tech Fix

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2848650256

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/cautionary-tale-venmo-your-sensitive-data-is-out/docview/2848650256/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

This Is a Reminder That You’re Probably Oversharing on Venmo

Author: Chen, Brian X

Publication info: Chen, Brian X. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-is-reminder-that-you-re-probably-oversharing/docview/2848551615/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
There’s an app for snooping on your friends, family and colleagues to find out about their fancy dinners, the people they are dating and the parties they are attending that you weren’t invited to.
It’s not a social networking app like Facebook or Snapchat. It’s Venmo, the app that became popular more than a decade ago by enabling people to send mobile payments to one another and to post those transactions, often in the form of cute emoji, on a public timeline.
The snooping works the other way around, too. Even if you seldom use Venmo today, the app is most likely leaking sensitive information about you to the general public.
How do I know? I’m embarrassed to admit it, but I recently discovered that my contacts list, which includes the names of people in my phone book, was published on Venmo for anyone using the app to see.
That’s because more than a decade ago, Venmo made people’s contact lists visible to its users. It created an option to hide the address book only two years ago, long after I had stopped using the app.
Venmo is a strong example of how even as social norms shift on the ways we use technology, the companies and their apps don’t change much. Venmo was founded in 2009 as a music startup that let users buy songs from bands through a text message. By the time eBay acquired it in 2013, it had become a mobile wallet service that was trendy among younger people who were gung-ho about sharing information about themselves online.
At the time, social networking was novel, and posting your thoughts, movements and achievements for everyone to know about was cutting edge, not sinister. Since then, we have learned the hard way that sharing such seemingly innocuous information can be hazardous. Stalkers, employers or data brokers can use the data to study our whereabouts and activities to target us.
But Venmo remains an app with a strong social networking element, one of many in a generation of apps that are now nearly 15 years old. And if you have apps and internet accounts from then that are on autopilot, it’s best to revisit them periodically to check their settings so that you can safeguard your privacy. If you no longer find value in the service, the safest bet may be to delete the account.
Before we get into that, let’s dive into why Venmo remains a privacy concern and what to do to protect your data.
Venmo Transactions
In the early 2010s, as smartphones became popular, Venmo rode the coattails of companies like Facebook and Twitter, which brought the concept of a public timeline into the mainstream. Similar to those networks, Venmo allowed people to publicly post to a feed, in its case details of payment transactions, including the dollar amount, time, date and a description, such as a pizza or taxicab emoji.
At the time, Braintree, the payments company that bought Venmo in 2012 before it was purchased by eBay, said Venmo had created “rave-worthy experiences” to simplify mobile payments between smartphone users. (Venmo is now owned by PayPal, which was spun off from eBay in 2015.)
Venmo has made some changes over the years to protects its users’ privacy. In 2021, it disabled its global feed, a stream where users could see Venmo transactions among strangers.
But critics say the app still falls short. Today, you can see transactions among people who are not your friends if you visit their profiles.
Venmo is still set by default to publicly share when you receive or make a payment. There’s an option to make the transaction private, but if you use the app quickly and don’t notice the setting, you could unknowingly broadcast the payments between you and others.
“It’s not just that I went out to pizza with this person,” said Gennie Gebhart, a managing director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights nonprofit. “It’s a pattern of who you live with, interact with and do business with, and how it changes over time.”
Last month, The Guardian discovered through a Venmo feed that an aide for Justice Clarence Thomas was taking payments from lawyers who have had business with the Supreme Court, a potential conflict of interest. The aide has since hidden his Venmo activity from public view.
While the idea of posting pizza and beer emoji and dollar amounts could sound like a fun way to tell others that you are out and about, there may eventually be consequences. Those transactions could be used to study your movements or, in the case of the Supreme Court aide, inadvertently disclose relationships.
In 2017, Hang Do Thi Duc, a data researcher who was at the Mozilla Foundation , published Public by Default, an interactive graphic summarizing the intimate details scraped from 208 million Venmo transactions. The graphic homed in on the daily lives of several Venmo users, including a cannabis dealer, a food cart vendor and a married couple splitting bills and paying off a loan together.
Venmo said in a statement that it had worked to change its privacy measures for customers and that privacy settings could be controlled within its app. “The privacyand safety of allVenmousers is always a top priority,” the company said.
To prevent your day-to-day life from being broadcast on Venmo, make sure to change the settings. Inside the app, click on the Me tab, tap the settings icon and select Privacy. Under default privacy settings, select Private. Then, under the “More” section in Privacy, click “Past Transactions” and make sure to set that to “Change All to Private.”
Your Contacts List
Venmo has made the contacts list, which can be generated from your smartphone’s address book or your Facebook friends list, viewable to any other user on the app.
That can make a lot of information public. In 2021, my New York Times colleague Ryan Mac, who was then at BuzzFeed News, used Venmo to discover President Joe Biden’s account and personal contacts list. Biden later deleted his Venmo account.
On a personal level, a public address book can reveal a new romantic partner to an ex. For professionals, it could expose a doctor’s patients, a journalist’s sources or a salesperson’s clients.
To hide your contacts list from public view, visit the privacy settings, click on Friends List and select Private. Also, toggle off the option for “appear in other users’ friends lists.”
Review, Then Review Again
All tech companies change their data-sharing features and settings over time. So take a moment to scroll through your phone and review the settings inside apps you haven’t used in a while to see if there’s something you missed.
Do Thi Duc, now a graphics editor at The New York Times, said she wasn’t surprised that Venmo was still making headlines, because the app relied on people’s public oversharing as a marketing mechanism. She said she deleted her Venmo account when conducting her research on the company.
After writing this column, I did the same.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Mobile commerce; Smartphones; Privacy; State court decisions; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Mobile commerce Smartphones Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Privacy; Smartphones; Pizza; Philanthropy; List App Inc; Buzzfeed Inc; Thomas, Clarence; Guardian (British Newspaper); Computers And The Internet; Wireless Communications; Dating And Relationships; Emojis And Emoticons; Food Trucks And Vendors; Supreme Court (Us); Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Chen, Brian X; Startups; New York Times; United States; Mobile Applications; Ebay Inc; Mobile Commerce And Payments; Marijuana; Electronic Frontier Foundation; Social Media; Snap Inc; Braintree Payment Solutions Llc; Venmo; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Twitter; Facebook Inc; Data Mining And Database Marketing; Mozilla Foundation; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Books And Literature; Conflicts Of Interest

Title: This Is a Reminder That You’re Probably Oversharing on Venmo

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 10, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-10T23:45:26Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2848551615

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-is-reminder-that-you-re-probably-oversharing/docview/2848551615/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2847191138/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Layoffs
Tyson Closes 4 Plants
To Lower Expenses
Tyson Foods is closing four chicken-processing plants as it looks to lower costs.
Tyson said Monday that the plants being closed are in North Little Rock, Ark.; Corydon, Ind.; Dexter, Missouri and Noel, Mo.
Tyson said that it will shift production to other facilities and halt operations at the four plants in the first two quarters of fiscal 2024. The company currently estimates having $ 300 million to $ 400 million in total charges, based on a preliminary analysis.
Tyson launched a plan in fiscal 2022 where it targeted $ 1 billion in productivity savings by the end of fiscal 2024. The company said that it realized more than $ 700 million of savings in fiscal 2022, which partially offset the impact of inflationary market conditions. Tyson topped its $ 1 billion target in the second quarter of fiscal 2023, more than a year ahead of its plan.
In May Tyson posted a surprise loss in its second quarter and cut its sales forecast due to the cost of plant closures. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Cryptocurrency
PayPal Lends Clout
With Stablecoin Launch
Payments giant PayPal said on Monday it has launched a U.S. dollar stablecoin, becoming the first major financial technology firm to embrace digital currencies for payments and transfers.
PayPal's announcement, which lifted its shares 2.66 percent on Monday, reflects a show of confidence in the troubled cryptocurrency industry that has over the last 12 months grappled with regulatory headwinds that were exacerbated by a string of high-profile collapses.
While stablecoins -- cryptocurrency tokens whose monetary value is pegged to a stable asset to protect from wild volatility -- have been around for years, they have yet to make headway into the mainstream consumer payments ecosystem.
Instead, consumers mostly use stablecoins as a means to trade other cryptocurrencies, like Bitcoin and Ethereum. The world's largest stablecoin is Tether, followed by USD Coin, which is issued by the cryptocurrency provider Circle. REUTERS
International
Adobe's Figma Deal Faces E.U. Antitrust Inquiry
Adobe's $ 20 billion bid for cloud-based designer platform Figma could reduce competition in global markets for interactive product design tools and also shut out rivals, E.U. antitrust regulators said on Monday.
The European Commission said it opened an investigation into the deal after a preliminary review triggered concerns, confirming a Reuters story last month.
Tech deals have recently drawn sharp antitrust regulatory scrutiny amid fears that some bigger companies may be acquiring rival start-ups to shut them down.
Figma's web-based collaborative platform for designs and brainstorming is popular among tech companies including Zoom Video Communications, Airbnb and Coinbase.
The deal would remove a key rival and could allow Photoshop maker Adobe to restrict competition for supply of interactive product design tools, the E.U. watchdog said. REUTERS
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS WHITE/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Digital currencies; Antitrust; Product design

Business indexing term: Subject: Digital currencies Antitrust Product design

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/07/business/08bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 8, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2847191138

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2847191138/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 8, 2023

Last updated: 2025-09-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

X: The Brand, the Generation and Elon Musk: [Style Desk]

Author: Bugbee, Stella

Publication info: Bugbee, Stella. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/x-brand-generation-elon-musk/docview/2846428164/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: One little letter, so much baggage.
The letter has its obvious appeals. X is a versatile shape -- one of the few capital letters to remain symmetrical whether bisected vertically or horizontally (the others: H, O and I). It's legible no matter how you flip it. It signals a stop. A mark on a map. A movie too outrageous to give a rating. It's the stuff of revolutionaries (Malcolm X) and punks (X, the band). It stands in for a kiss, and represents an unknown quantity in mathematics. XXX is porn -- the first true currency of the internet. X can be the hidden conspiracy of "The X-Files," or the shorthand for the drug Ecstasy, popular with ravers in the '90s.
On Monday, Twitter unveiled its new name, and with it, a new logo. The unfurling of the new branding had the same chaotic energy Elon Musk has brought to every step of the journey since he bought Twitter last October. As users on X (formerly referred to by some, semi-affectionately, as "the bird app") adjusted to their new surroundings, there were many questions to ponder. Like for example: If it wasn't called Twitter any more, were the posts still tweets? What is the sound of an X flying through silicon? A zing? And why did Mr. Musk choose it?
His age might have something to do with it. In the 1990s, X reigned supreme, after Douglas Coupland's 1991 novel "Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture" permeated the lexicon.
"We were in our 20s when we were named Gen X," Anthony Sperduti, 50, founder of the branding studio Mythology, said. "So maybe X sounds good to us, because it seeped into our brain." At 52, Mr. Musk falls right into that demographic.
For marketing purposes in the 1990s, X had a certain cool. It conferred a rejection of authority -- you could imagine Bart Simpson with a marker writing X's on the walls of his bedroom -- while also being co-opted by mass consumerism. X was the symbol for generic products, so X could be both rebellious and mass-produced.
Big business got in on the letter, too, as it tried to bottle the alternative energy of the decade. The X Games started in 1995, a shorthand for "extreme," a term used to describe sports like snowboarding, which was allowed into the Olympics only in 1998. The Xbox video game console came in 2001.
Musicians and hipsters applied the letter liberally as they created companies. Eli Bonerz and Adam Silverman opened the clothing store XLARGE (a favorite of the Beastie Boys) in Los Angeles in 1991. Kim Gordon and Daisy von Furth started their clothing brand X-Girl in 1994.
But X has its limitations.
"It's not meaningful as an identity," Michael Rock, 64, a partner at 2x4, a branding consultancy based in New York and Beijing, said of the new logo. "It's meaningful as a negation or a cancellation. A crossing out."
Still, Gen X was the first generation to have a letter as a name, and even if they didn't love the moniker, they took pride in being undefinable. In any case, the name stuck. And it seems to have truly stuck longest and strongest in Mr. Musk's psyche. (Mr. Musk did not respond to a request for comment.)
Indeed, Mr. Musk seems to have something of a fixation with the letter X. He named his rocket company SpaceX, a Tesla the Model X, and one of his own children X Æ A-12, or X for short. Mr. Musk's second company, X.com, emerged in the X-still-having-a-moment year of 1999 before merging with another company and becoming PayPal in 2001.
As a single letter, X had little competition for branding until 1998 when Apple unleashed the lowercase i in the naming of the iMac. Compared with the violent slash of X, the i was optimistic, self-referential and cheerfully anthropomorphic -- the little dot like a head perched above a pert, standing body ready to take over the world. A millennial letter, you might say, there to replace the self-defeating X and its latchkey energy.
By branding everything he touches with X it's as if Mr. Musk is begging the world to remember his prime years when he was starting to build his empire. (Not a very stereotypically Gen X instinct.)
In a way, Mr. Rock said, "it's a non-choice, the suspension of narrative to be supplied later." He felt the actual logo the company put on the site as a place holder was beside the point. "Perversity seems to be at the heart of it."
Mr. Rock likened it to "a leather motorcycle jacket at a Tesla launch," more akin to the Xbox or X Games branding than any of the more authentically counterculture uses from the 1990s.
"I can imagine it appeals to Elon Musk's persona as alternative, edgy, mysterious or punk, but it comes across as tech-bro cringe," he said.
In the end, if Mr. Musk succeeds in making X into "the everything company" he wants it to be, the logo won't matter. And that's perhaps the most Gen X outcome of all.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL SAGET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page ST4.

Subject: Extreme sports; Logos; Generic products; Name changes

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Generic products

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 516210

URL: https://www.nytimes .com/2023/07/25/style/gen-x-elon-musk-new-logo.html

Title: X: The Brand, the Generation and Elon Musk:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 6, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2846428164

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/x-brand-generation-elon-musk/docview/2846428164/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

So, What Do We Call That Bird App Now?: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Conger, Kate

Publication info: Conger, Kate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/so-what-do-we-call-that-bird-app-now/docview/2844978625/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With Elon Musk's rebranding of the app, is Twitter's name really retired? What about tweets? We unravel the terminology puzzle.
With a simple name change, Elon Musk has created confusion in social media.
The bewilderment stems from Mr. Musk's move last month to rebrand Twitter, which he owns, as X. No major social media app has undergone such a name change before, at least while it had tens of millions of active users.
In 2016, Snapchat dropped "chat" from its corporate name, but kept the app's name unchanged. When Facebook changed its parent company name to Meta in 2021, it also left the name of its flagship social network alone.
The rebranding has been hair-raising for Twitter fans, who embraced the company's iconic blue-and-white bird logo and used a bird-related lexicon when talking about the platform. A tweet referred to a post; tweeting was a verb for posting, and sharing another person's post was known as retweeting.
Some people have wondered if the X name will stick, especially with the word tweets still appearing on the site. The app's home button is also still shaped like a birdhouse, and the company's website -- at least for now -- remains Twitter.com.
So is the Twitter name retired? And do we now call a tweet a "xeet" or "xcerpt"?
Really, what do we call Twitter now?
Sorry, die-hard Twitter fans, it's X.
X said its app would definitively be called X going forward. In marketing copy, the company declared, "The X app is the trusted digital town square for everyone." The app has a new slogan, too: "Blaze your glory!" (Twitter's previous tag lines included "Let's talk" and "It's what's happening.")
The Associated Press also updated its stylebook, which many regard as the gold standard, to reflect the name change. It suggested that media outlets call the company and its social media platform "X, formerly known as Twitter."
Mr. Musk had laid the groundwork for the name change for some time. When he bought Twitter last year, he formed a new parent company, X Corp., for the transaction.
In other words, people are now using X, an app by X Corp.
Mr. Musk is slowly purging Twitter's brand digitally and physically. While Twitter.com still sends users to the service's familiar home page, so does X.com, indicating that the website could soon change. The bird branding that adorned the website and the app has been eradicated.
Mr. Musk also briefly erected a light-up X sign atop the company's San Francisco's headquarters last week. (It was removed this week after a permit dispute.) And he replaced the bird-themed names of conference rooms at X's offices with X-themed names including "eXposure," "eXult" and "s3Xy," and ordered the removal of bird logos around the building.
What do we call tweets?
Tweets are now posts. In the same app update that wiped out the bird logo, the company swapped its classic blue "tweet" button for one that says "post."
Some users have proposed other names for posts. One suggestion has been "xeets" (pronounced zeets), an X-themed play on tweets. Others suggested "xcerpts." None of these terms seem to have caught on in a big way, at least so far.
Some of the app's other monikers may also change. Retweets are likely to become reposts, while quote tweets -- which refer to retweets that add one's own commentary -- may just become comments or quote posts.
Why did this change happen?
Mr. Musk has long been enamored with creating a company called X. In 1999, he started X.com, an online bank that later merged with the electronic payments service PayPal. Nearly two decades later, he bought the X.com website back from PayPal.
Mr. Musk has said he envisions X as an "everything app" that will allow users to share social media posts, order dinner and transfer money. Taking over Twitter was just the first step, he said.
"X is the future state of unlimited interactivity -- centered in audio, video, messaging, payments/banking -- creating a global marketplace for ideas, goods, services, and opportunities," Linda Yaccarino, the company's chief executive, posted last month.
What happens if I can't shake off the Twitter name?
We get it! It will take time to adjust colloquially to X. The Twitter name and its bird-related vocabulary have been used since 2006 and were embedded in popular culture.
The change may be especially difficult since "it is extremely rare for consumers to develop a lexicon around a brand," said Mike Proulx, a vice president and research director at Forrester. "It would be viewed as an advantage in most circumstances because it suggests a deepening of the brand-consumer relationship."
Now Mr. Musk has to create that relationship with the X brand, even as some users insist they will stick to the old terminology.
"A lot of people are confused about what to do now that Twitter has been officially rebranded as X, and I thought I'd write up a helpful guide for those of you struggling with change," one user recently wrote. "You keep calling it Twitter and pretend you do not see it!"
Photograph PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHUTTERSTOCK) (B1); The downgrade was viewed as a condemnation of partisan U.S. politics, including the recent debt ceiling standoff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAIYUN JIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Logos; Name changes; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Social networks

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/02/technology/twitter-x -tweets-elon-musk.html

Title: So, What Do We Call That Bird App Now?:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 3, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2844978625

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/so-what-do-we-call-that-bird-app-now/docview/2844978625/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Stressed-Out Life of a Biter in Chief: [Op-Ed]

Author: Horowitz, Alexandra

Publication info: Horowitz, Alexandra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stressed-out-life-biter-chief/docview/2844978575/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Any dog can bite. It is the special misfortune of dogs living in the most famous house in the United States to have their bites widely publicized, amplified and scrutinized. And so when Commander, the German shepherd who lives with President and Jill Biden, began biting, his behavior made headlines.
The story, I think, is bigger than the question of whether Commander is showing "aggressive behavior," as an email from a Secret Service agent put it. I'm chary about assuming that Commander means to maim. Even in my hesitation, though, I know that when it comes to our dogs, we still like to characterize them in categorical terms, as good or bad. We blame the breed or blame the owner.
Neither is correct. The real story is that we are still holding dogs to standards they cannot possibly understand, while at the same time failing to really observe them and understand their behavior on their own terms.
Commander is not the first biter in the White House. The Bidens' previous dogs Champ and Major were sent back to Delaware in March 2021, after what was described as a biting incident. Teddy Roosevelt had a bull terrier called Pete who bit a Navy Department clerk and tore off the pants of the French ambassador. Franklin D. Roosevelt exiled his dog -- also, coincidentally, a German shepherd called Major -- after he bit the British prime minister, as well as the first woman elected to the Senate, Hattie Caraway. (Lest anyone start hand-wringing about German shepherds, Eleanor Roosevelt's Scottish terrier Meggie, a squat, short-legged dog, was a biter: She was sent away after biting a journalist.)
Why do dogs bite? As much as we like looking to our own behavior to interpret a dog's actions, this is one case among many in which it is not apt. A biting man is well outside social norms. But biting is part of every dog's normal behavioral repertoire. From 3 weeks of age, puppies are biting -- which is to say, they are using their mouths to explore the world -- to taste it, grab it, manipulate it. If they are growing up around other dogs, they very likely will bite them, too, and learn from the response what happens when they bite too hard.
Early development marks the beginning of dogs' learning to inhibit their bites, knowledge that will serve them well in their future social interactions with other animals, including people. If a dog is not properly socialized in early life -- exposed to other dogs, people and any other animals they'll be living with -- they won't get that all-important feedback. By 5 weeks of age, puppies are mouths with tails, and their teeth are sharp.
Only a few weeks later, puppies may wind up in a human home. The ease with which we can adopt or buy a dog (you could purchase a puppy with PayPal in the time it takes you to read this article) obscures the fact that dogs do not arrive at your home with a clear understanding of how you expect them to behave. Among the concepts that are fundamentally perplexing to dogs is that, while they use their mouths operationally, we reserve our mouths for breathing, speaking, eating and kissing, for the most part -- and expect dogs to as well. Even more challenging, dogs frequently use mouthing and biting in play with one another without incident. So dogs need to learn that while they are free to bite toys, sticks, objects and other dogs in various contexts, they are never free to bite you.
This does not stop people from reacting with alarm at any sort of dog bite, often resorting to killing the dog. It is worth pausing here to interrogate what exactly a bite is.
When we read about biting dogs, it is often assumed that they are biting aggressively, with intent to harm or kill. That is certainly one possible aim of a bite. But a well-socialized dog might do plenty of nonaggressive biting. Some biting we could call gentle biting or mouthing: putting one's mouth on a person, often when the dog is playing or excited. These are not aggressive bites, nor are they, typically, damaging ones.
There is also a warning bite: A dog might snap her teeth defensively if startled or afraid. The resultant bite could be damaging, but the intent is not aggressive. A bite could be done reflexively, as in a case in which a person grabs a stick of interest to a dog or takes his food away prematurely. This kind of protective gesture is an indication that the person has failed to see what the dog thinks of as his own. A bite could be done to scold, as when a mother dog bites her puppies when they nurse too hard or bother her. This bite is an interdog communication of a line being crossed.
Since I am a researcher of animal behavior, my approach to Commander's biting would be, in essence, to ask him what he means by his bite. I have not been a witness to any of the reported bites, but if I were, I would look to describe their context in order to help differentiate the kind and reason for each instance.
Did someone suddenly approach Commander (surprising him)? Does it look as if he was in pain or in an uncomfortable situation (the bite as information about his discomfort)? Did he give warning signs like a growl or bark before biting (defensively)? Was the bite done in response to a spirited gesture or a chase (playfully)? What did the dog do after the bite -- continue to bite or step back? Bark and jump (more assertive) or roll on his back, exposing his belly (more submissive or playful)?
There is no one kind of bite, nor is there any bite without a prompt, internal or external. To know what to do with a biting dog -- to even know how to talk about what he did -- we need to understand that context. Even so, as some people were hospitalized after being bitten, the meaning of Commander's bites might be secondary. Whether he intended it or not, his mouth can inflict damage.
Many sweet, laid-back dogs living as pets in our homes might be stressed to the point of developing a lively biting habit if they lived in the White House, faced with so many people, so much noise and so many camera eyes directed at them, handling by multiple people and lacking the typical owned dog's straightforward daily routine. The White House acknowledged this in a statement, saying, "The White House complex is a unique and stressful environment for family pets."
I agree, and the answer isn't that the dog needs better training. There's no bad dog, Mr. President, but there are better and worse environments for a dog to be a dog.
Alexandra Horowitz (@DogUmwelt) runs the Horowitz Dog Cognition Lab at Barnard College and is the author, most recently, of "The Year of the Puppy: How Dogs Become Themselves."

Source photographs by CSA Images and Glowimages/Getty Images
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CSA IMAGES AND GLOWIMAGES/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Animal bites; Dogs

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/01/opinion/commander-biden-dog-biting-german-shepherd.html

Title: The Stressed-Out Life of a Biter in Chief:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 3, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 2844978575

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stressed-out-life-biter-chief/docview/2844978575/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

So What Do We Call Twitter Now Anyway?

Author: Conger, Kate

Publication info: Conger, Kate. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/so-what-do-we-call-twitter-now-anyway/docview/2844910369/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — With a simple name change, Elon Musk has created confusion in social media.
The bewilderment stems from Musk’s move last month to rebrand Twitter, which he owns, as X. No major social media app has undergone such a name change before, at least while it had tens of millions of active users.
In 2016, Snapchat dropped “chat” from its corporate name, but kept the app’s name unchanged. When Facebook changed its parent company name to Meta in 2021, it also left the name of its flagship social network alone.
The rebranding has been hair-raising for Twitter fans, who embraced the company’s iconic blue-and-white bird logo and used a bird-related lexicon when talking about the platform. A tweet referred to a post; tweeting was a verb for posting, and sharing another person’s post was known as retweeting.
Some people have wondered if the X name will stick, especially with the word tweets still appearing on the site. The app’s home button is also still shaped like a birdhouse, and the company’s website — at least for now — remains Twitter.com.
So is the Twitter name retired? And do we now call a tweet a “xeet” or “xcerpt?”
Really, what do we call Twitter now?
Sorry, die-hard Twitter fans: It’s X.
X said its app would definitively be called X going forward. In marketing copy, the company declared, “The X app is the trusted digital town square for everyone.” The app has a new slogan, too: “Blaze your glory!” (Twitter’s previous tag lines included “Let’s talk” and “It’s what’s happening.”)
The Associated Press also updated its stylebook, which many regard as the gold standard, to reflect the name change. It suggested that media outlets call the company and its social media platform “X, formerly known as Twitter.”
Musk had laid the groundwork for the name change for some time. When he bought Twitter last year, he formed a new parent company, X Corp., for the transaction.
In other words, people are now using X, an app by X Corp.
Musk is slowly purging Twitter’s brand digitally and physically. While Twitter.com still sends users to the service’s familiar homepage, so does X.com, indicating that the website could soon change. The bird branding that adorned the website and the app has been eradicated.
Musk also briefly erected a light-up X sign atop the company’s San Francisco’s headquarters last week. (It was removed this week after a permit dispute.) And he replaced the bird-themed names of conference rooms at X’s offices with X-themed names including “eXposure,” “eXult” and “s3Xy,” and ordered the removal of bird logos around the building.
What do we call tweets?
Tweets are now posts. In the same app update that wiped out the bird logo, the company swapped its classic blue “tweet” button for one that says “post.”
Some users have proposed other names for posts. One suggestion has been “xeets,” (pronounced zeets), an X-themed play on tweets. Others suggested “xcerpts.” None of these terms seem to have caught on in a big way, at least so far.
Some of the app’s other monikers may also change. Retweets are likely to become reposts, while quote tweets — which refer to retweets that add one’s own commentary — may just become comments or quote posts.
Why did this change happen?
Musk has long been enamored with creating a company called X. In 1999, he started X.com, an online bank that later merged with the electronic payments service PayPal. Nearly two decades later, he bought the X.com website back from PayPal.
Musk has said that he envisions X as an “everything app” that will allow users to share social media posts, order dinner and transfer money. Taking over Twitter was just the first step, he said.
“X is the future state of unlimited interactivity — centered in audio, video, messaging, payments/banking — creating a global marketplace for ideas, goods, services, and opportunities,” Linda Yaccarino, the company’s CEO, posted last month.
What happens if I can’t shake off the Twitter name?
We get it! It will take time to adjust colloquially to X. The Twitter name and its bird-related vocabulary have been used since 2006 and were embedded in popular culture.
The change may be especially difficult since “it is extremely rare for consumers to develop a lexicon around a brand,” said Mike Proulx, a vice president and research director at Forrester. “It would be viewed as an advantage in most circumstances because it suggests a deepening of the brand-consumer relationship.”
Now Musk has to create that relationship with the X brand, even as some users insist they will stick to the old terminology.
“A lot of people are confused about what to do now that Twitter has been officially rebranded as X, and I thought I’d write up a helpful guide for those of you struggling with change,” one user recently wrote. “You keep calling it Twitter and pretend you do not see it!”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Logos; Name changes; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; San Francisco California

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320

Identifier / keyword: Mobile Applications; Logos; Social Media; Snap Inc; Forrester Research Inc; Meta Platforms Inc; Business; Associated Press; Advertising And Marketing; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Twitter; Facebook Inc; Dating And Relationships; San Francisco (Calif); Trademarks And Trade Names; Names, Organizational; Names, Personal

Title: So What Do We Call Twitter Now Anyway?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 2, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-02T23:45:54Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2844910369

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/so-what-do-we-call-twitter-now-anyway/docview/2844910369/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What's in a Name? The Musk/Twitter Edition: [Op-Ed]

Author: Krugman, Paul

Publication info: Krugman, Paul. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/whats-name-musk-twitter-edition/docview/2842746985/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I have (well-managed) arthritis and take pain reducers every day. I normally buy generic acetaminophen; but many people still buy brand-name Tylenol, even though it costs much more.
There's a long-running debate among economists about why people are willing to pay a premium for name brands. Some emphasize ignorance -- one influential study found that health professionals are more likely than the public at large to buy generic painkillers, because they realize that they're just as effective as name brands. Others suggest that there may be a rational calculation involved: The quality of name brands may be more reliable, because the owners of these brands have a reputation to preserve. It doesn't have to be either-or; the story behind the brand premium may depend on the product.
What's clear is that brand names that for whatever reason inspire customer loyalty have real value to the company that owns them and shouldn't be changed casually.
So what the heck does Elon Musk, the owner of TAFKAT -- the app formerly known as Twitter -- think he's doing, changing the platform's name to X, with a new logo many people, myself included, find troubling?
It's important to distinguish between corporate rebranding -- changing the official name of a company -- and changing the names of the company's products. Google renamed itself Alphabet, presumably to convey to investors its aspiration to be more than a search engine, but the search engine itself is still named Google. Philip Morris renamed itself Altria, presumably in part to diminish its perceived association with lung cancer, but its customers still smoke Marlboros.
Changing product names is more problematic, because it risks losing customer loyalty, so it tends to happen only when there's a real problem with the existing name. It was definitely a good idea to change the name of Bib-Label Lithiated Lemon-Lime Soda to 7Up. It's actually remarkable that it took PepsiCo so long to realize that in an America that has changed (for the better), the Aunt Jemima brand name had to go. But absent such good reasons, sensible businesses keep the brand names their customers keep buying.
So what was wrong with Twitter as a brand name? Nothing, as far as I can tell. It was friendly-sounding and a bit funny, and resonated with the role of the platform as a place for people to chatter about a variety of subjects. The Twitter logo was also fine -- distinctive, instantly recognizable and without any obvious negative connotations.
But Musk has nonetheless ditched all of that in favor of X, a harsh-sounding name with no relationship to what the platform does.
Furthermore, the new logo -- a slightly embellished version of the letter X -- is problematic in several ways. It probably can't be trademarked, because it's more or less indistinguishable from a lowercase x in an existing font. Many TAFKAT users say that they're embarrassed by the logo, which makes them feel as if they're visiting a porn site. My reaction was a bit different. To me, and I'm sure others, the new logo has the vibes of an authoritarian political symbol, like the Z emblem of Russians invading Ukraine -- or some other historical symbols I'm sure you can think of.
Modern corporations normally give a lot of thought to choosing brand names and logos. So what was Musk thinking with his renaming of TAFKAT? It's really hard to see any business rationale for junking a perfectly good brand identity and replacing it with a name and logo almost everyone finds off-putting.
Well, everything we know suggests that he basically wasn't thinking. For some reason he has always had a thing about the letter X -- his rocket company is SpaceX and he tried to get PayPal to rename itself X.com (and was ousted as C.E.O. immediately afterward, perhaps because his colleagues thought it sounded like, yes, a porn site). And that awful logo didn't go through the usual design process (Twitter's bird logo evolved over seven years). It was casually outsourced -- he asked his followers to suggest symbols and chose one he liked.
But then, Musk's sudden change of brand name and symbol, without a clear rationale, fits the pattern of everything else he's done at TAFKAT.
He clearly suffers from a severe case of Tech Bro Syndrome, that weird combination of hubris and conspiracy theorizing so prevalent in his social set. He accused Twitter of censoring conservatives, ignoring the reality that in a MAGA-ridden nation any attempt to limit the spread of dangerous misinformation will hit the right harder than the left. He purchased Twitter in the belief that his personal brilliance could easily make the company profitable, no need for hard thinking about business strategy.
And he's been flailing wildly ever since.
Will the Xification of Twitter finally be a flail too far? Social networks tend to be especially durable because -- like international currencies -- they benefit from self-reinforcement: People use them because other people use them. It will take many bad decisions to push TAFKAT to the tipping point where people abandon it for another platform.
But Musk is working on it.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page A23.

Subject: Brand loyalty; Search engines; Logos; Brand names; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Brand loyalty Logos Brand names Social networks

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/27/opinion/elon-musk-twitter-x.html

Title: What's in a Name? The Musk/Twitter Edition:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.23

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 28, 2023

column: Paul Krugman

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2842746985

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/whats-name-musk-twitter-edition/docview/2842746985/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Bye, Twitter And Hello, X: Musk Begins Rebranding: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ryan, Mac; Hsu, Tiffany

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Hsu, Tiffany. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bye-twitter-hello-x-musk-begins-rebranding/docview/2841252141/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The tech billionaire started removing the bird logo that has been part of Twitter's identity since 2006.
For more than 10 years, Twitter has been recognizable for its blue and white bird logo, which became a symbol of the social network's unique culture and lexicon. To "tweet" became a verb. A "tweet" referred to a post. "Tweeps" became the moniker for Twitter employees.
Late on Sunday, Elon Musk began getting rid of it all.
The tech billionaire, who bought Twitter last year, renamed the social platform X.com on its website and started replacing the bird logo with a stylized version of the 24th letter of the Latin alphabet.
Inside Twitter's headquarters in San Francisco on Monday, X logos were projected in the cafeteria, while conference rooms were renamed to words with X in them, including "eXposure," "eXult" and "s3Xy," according to photos seen by The New York Times. Workers also began removing bird-related paraphernalia, such as a giant blue logo in the cafeteria. Outside the building, workers took off the first six letters of Twitter's name before the San Francisco Police Department stopped them for performing "unauthorized work," according to an alert sent by the department.
Mr. Musk had long said he might make the name change, but he hastened the process in a tweet early Sunday when he declared that "soon we shall bid adieu to the twitter brand and, gradually, all the birds." He has said he hopes to turn Twitter into an "everything app" called X, which would encompass not only social networking but also banking and shopping.
Earlier on Monday, Mr. Musk also shared a photo of a giant X projected on Twitter's San Francisco office building with the caption: "Our headquarters tonight."
The moves -- which are continuing -- are the most visible changes that Mr. Musk has made to Twitter since he closed the deal to buy the company in October. Behind the scenes, he has taken many steps to overhaul the firm, eliminating thousands of employees and changing the platform's features, including badges that were meant to verify users, as well as the rules governing what can and can't be said on the service.
Yet the name and logo changes were impossible to ignore. By starting to remove the Twitter name, Mr. Musk tossed out an entrenched brand that had been around since 2006 -- when the company was founded -- and that had delighted and frustrated celebrities, politicians, athletes and other users in equal measure. Twitter introduced its blue bird mascot in 2010 and updated it two years later.
Many Twitter users, who have spent years tweeting and building up their presence on the site, appeared alienated by the shift. "Has everybody seen the (eXecrable) new logo?" the actor Mark Hamill tweeted on Monday, with the hashtag #ByeByeBirdie. Others saw the move as Mr. Musk's latest blow to the site, with some stubbornly saying they will still call the site Twitter and will continue to "tweet."
When brands become verbs, it's the "holy grail," said Mike Proulx, a vice president and research director at Forrester, because it means they have become part of popular culture.
"The app itself has become a cultural phenomenon in all sorts of ways," he said. "In one fell sweep, Elon Musk has essentially wiped out 15 years of brand value from Twitter and is now essentially starting from scratch."
Mr. Musk risked the wrath of Twitter's users even as he can ill afford to upset them. His company faces financial difficulties and increased competition, with rival Meta releasing an app this month for real-time, public conversations called Threads. The new app quickly racked up 100 million downloads in less than a week, though use of the app is under scrutiny.
Mike Carr, a co-founder of the branding company NameStormers, said Mr. Musk's X logo could be interpreted as having an ominous "Big Brother" tech overlord vibe. Unlike the blue bird, which he described as warm and cuddly but perhaps a bit dated and weighed down by bad press, the new logo is "very harsh," he said.
Still, it conjured phrases like "X marks the spot" and could help Mr. Musk differentiate the platform from its Twitter baggage, Mr. Carr said.
"If they do this wrong and it was anybody other than Elon Musk, he'd be running a higher risk because people could start making fun of it," said Mr. Carr, who has helped come up with names for thousands of clients, including CarMax, the used car company.
Mr. Musk has long been interested in the X name. In 1999, he helped found X.com, an online bank. The company changed its name after it merged with another start-up to form what would become PayPal.
In 2017, Mr. Musk said he had repurchased the X.com domain from PayPal. "No plans right now, but it has great sentimental value to me," he tweeted at the time.
Tesla, Mr. Musk's electric automaker, also has a sport utility vehicle called the Model X. One of Mr. Musk's sons, X Æ A-12 Musk, is often called X for short. The holding companies created to close the acquisition of Twitter were named X Holdings. Mr. Musk also leads an artificial intelligence company called xAI.
"I like the letter X," he posted on Sunday.
Mr. Musk has shown a disdain toward Twitter's previous corporate culture. He has quibbled with the number of bird references in the company's internal team names and products. At one point, he changed the name of a crowdsourced fact-checking feature to "Community Notes" from "Birdwatch." He recently also had someone cover the w in Twitter's name at its San Francisco headquarters.
Among those who didn't seem bothered by the change was Jack Dorsey, a Twitter founder and former chief executive. He said in a tweet on Monday that while a rebrand was not "essential" to achieving Mr. Musk's vision, there was an argument for it.
"The Twitter brand carries a lot of baggage," Mr. Dorsey wrote. "But all that matters is the utility it provides, not the name."
Martin Grasser, a San Francisco artist who was part of a team in 2011 that helped design the most recent Twitter bird logo, said it was meant to convey "simplicity, brevity and clarity." The goal was to have a logo that was as memorable as Apple's or Nike's, he said.
Mr. Grasser said Mr. Musk could do whatever he wanted with the brand, but "I hope the bird occupies a space in culture that is a happy memory or becomes one of those logos that belongs to culture rather than a company."
Photograph The new logo was projected onto Twitter's San Francisco office on Sunday night as the company started rebranding. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Corporate culture; Logos; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate culture Logos Social networks

Location: United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/24/technology/twitter-x-elon-musk.html

Title: Bye, Twitter And Hello, X: Musk Begins Rebranding:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2841252141

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bye-twitter-hello-x-musk-begins-rebranding/docview/2841252141/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

From Twitter to X: Elon Musk Begins Erasing an Iconic Internet Brand

Author: Ryan, Mac; Hsu, Tiffany

Publication info: Ryan, Mac; Hsu, Tiffany. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/twitter-x-elon-musk-begins-erasing-iconic/docview/2841182174/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
For more than 10 years, Twitter has been recognizable for its blue and white bird logo, which became a symbol of the social network’s unique culture and lexicon. To “tweet” became a verb. A “tweet” referred to a post. “Tweeps” became the moniker for Twitter employees.
Late Sunday, Elon Musk began getting rid of it all.
The tech billionaire, who bought Twitter last year, renamed the social platform X.com on its website and started replacing the bird logo with a stylized version of the 24th letter of the Latin alphabet.
Inside Twitter’s headquarters in San Francisco on Monday, X logos were projected in the cafeteria, while conference rooms were renamed to words with X in them, including “eXposure,” “eXult” and “s3Xy,” according to photos seen by The New York Times. Workers also began removing bird-related paraphernalia, such as a giant blue logo in the cafeteria. Outside the building, workers took off the first six letters of Twitter’s name before the San Francisco Police Department stopped them for performing “unauthorized work,” according to an alert sent by the department.
Musk had long said he might make the name change, but he hastened the process in a tweet early Sunday when he declared that “soon we shall bid adieu to the twitter brand and, gradually, all the birds.” He has said he hopes to turn Twitter into an “everything app” called X, which would encompass not only social networking, but also banking and shopping.
Earlier Monday, Musk also shared a photo of a giant X projected on Twitter’s San Francisco office building with the caption: “Our headquarters tonight.”
The moves — which are continuing — are the most visible changes that Musk has made to Twitter since he closed the deal to buy the company in October. Behind the scenes, he has taken many steps to overhaul the firm, eliminating thousands of employees and changing the platform’s features, including badges that were meant to verify users, as well as the rules governing what can and can’t be said on the service.
Yet the name and logo changes were impossible to ignore. By starting to remove the Twitter name, Musk tossed out an entrenched brand that had been around since 2006 — when the company was founded — and that had delighted and frustrated celebrities, politicians, athletes and other users in equal measure. Twitter introduced its blue bird mascot in 2010 and updated it two years later.
Many Twitter users, who have spent years tweeting and building up their presence on the site, appeared alienated by the shift. “Has everybody seen the (eXecrable) new logo?” actor Mark Hamill tweeted Monday, with the hashtag #ByeByeBirdie. Others saw the move as Musk’s latest blow to the site, with some stubbornly saying they would still call the site Twitter and would continue to “tweet.”
When brands become verbs, it’s the “holy grail,” said Mike Proulx, a vice president and research director at Forrester, because it means they have become part of popular culture.
“The app itself has become a cultural phenomenon in all sorts of ways,” he said. “In one fell sweep, Elon Musk has essentially wiped out 15 years of brand value from Twitter and is now essentially starting from scratch.”
Musk risked the wrath of Twitter’s users even as he can ill afford to upset them. His company faces financial difficulties and increased competition, with rival Meta releasing an app this month for real-time, public conversations called Threads. The new app quickly racked up 100 million downloads in less than a week, though use of the app is under scrutiny.
Mike Carr, a co-founder of the branding company NameStormers, said Musk’s X logo could be interpreted as having an ominous “Big Brother” tech overlord vibe. Unlike the blue bird, which he described as warm and cuddly but perhaps a bit dated and weighed down by bad press, the new logo was “very harsh,” he said.
Still, it conjured phrases like “X marks the spot” and could help Musk differentiate the platform from its Twitter baggage, Carr said.
“If they do this wrong and it was anybody other than Elon Musk, he’d be running a higher risk because people could start making fun of it,” said Carr, who has helped come up with names for thousands of clients, including CarMax, the used car company.
Musk has long been interested in the X name. In 1999, he helped found X.com, an online bank. The company changed its name after it merged with another startup to form what would become PayPal.
In 2017, Musk said he repurchased the X.com domain from PayPal. “No plans right now, but it has great sentimental value to me,” he tweeted at the time.
Tesla, Musk’s electric automaker, also has an SUV called the Model X. One of Musk’s sons, X Æ A-12 Musk, is often called X for short. The holding companies created to close the acquisition of Twitter were named X Holdings. Musk also leads an artificial intelligence company called xAI.
“I like the letter X,” he posted Sunday.
Musk has shown a disdain toward Twitter’s previous corporate culture. He has quibbled with the number of bird references in the company’s internal team names and products. At one point, he changed the name of a crowdsourced fact-checking feature to “Community Notes” from “Birdwatch.” He recently also had someone cover the “w” in Twitter’s name at its San Francisco headquarters.
Among those who didn’t seem bothered by the change was Jack Dorsey, a Twitter founder and former CEO. He said in a tweet Monday that while a rebrand was not “essential” to achieving Musk’s vision, there was an argument for it.
“The Twitter brand carries a lot of baggage,” Dorsey wrote. “But all that matters is the utility it provides, not the name.”
Martin Grasser, a San Francisco artist who was part of a team in 2011 that helped design the most recent Twitter bird logo, said it was meant to convey “simplicity, brevity and clarity.” The goal was to have a logo that was as memorable as Apple’s or Nike’s, he said.
Grasser said Musk could do whatever he wanted with the brand, but “I hope the bird occupies a space in culture that is a happy memory or becomes one of those logos that belongs to culture rather than a company.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Corporate culture; Logos; Police departments; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate culture Logos Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US; San Francisco California

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Police Department-San Francisco CA; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Hamill, Mark; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Carmax Inc; Meta Platforms Inc; Business; New York Times; Paypal; Mobile Applications; Tesla Motors Inc; Nike Inc; Logos; Apple Inc; Social Media; Threads (Mobile App); Forrester Research Inc; Musk, Elon; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Twitter; Workplace Environment; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; San Francisco (Calif); Trademarks And Trade Names; Dorsey, Jack

Title: From Twitter to X: Elon Mus k Begins Erasing an Iconic Internet Brand

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-24T22:49:53Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2841182174

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/twitter-x-elon-musk-begins-erasing-iconic/docview/2841182174/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Extreme Heat Waves Show Need for Climate Adaptation: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Warner, Bernhard; Michael J. De La Merced; Hirsch, Lauren

Publication info: Warner, Bernhard; Michael J. De La Merced; Hirsch, Lauren. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/extreme-heat-waves-show-need-climate-adaptation/docview/2840911636/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Almost all climate finance focuses on mitigating climate change. But money is increasingly pouring in to helping people adapt to the effects of global warming.
Good morning. In today's newsletter: Extreme heat highlights the need for another kind of climate investment; A.I. puts shadow libraries in the spotlight; and Aly Wagner, a co-founder of a new women's soccer team, talks about the money in women's sports. (Was this newsletter forwarded to you? Sign up here. )
As heat waves gripped three continents this week, venturing outside for even a few minutes in Phoenix, Rome or a town in northwest China at times meant risking heatstroke or worse. This weekend, about 80 million Americans are expected to experience a heat index -- what the temperature feels like to the body -- of at least 105 degrees, according to the National Weather Service.
The extreme heat is prompting violent typhoons in Asia and flash floods in the United States. It's taxing power grids, driving up health care costs and messing with tourists' holidays. And it's eventually going to impact everything -- and the business of everything.
El Niño and a stagnant jet stream contributed to the record-breaking temperatures. But to the pragmatist, extreme heat is the new normal.
Carl-Friedrich Schleussner, the head of climate science at Climate Analytics, a policy institute in Berlin, said, "Most of our cities are not equipped to deal with these kinds of summers."
"We'll have to develop adaptation strategies" -- and fast, he told DealBook.
The good news: Investors are spending big on climate projects. Global warming helps make periods of extreme heat more frequent, longer and more intense, and it will continue getting worse unless humans essentially stop adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere, scientists say. Venture investing in climate tech has boomed since the post-Covid recovery began (though it fell, along with venture funding overall, in the first half of the year). And global public and private investment in climate finance, on projects ranging from decarbonizing architecture and transport to developing renewable energy initiatives, more than doubled from 2011 to 2021, to an estimated $ 850 billion, according to the Climate Policy Initiative, a nonprofit climate advocacy group. (It will top $ 1 trillion with the passage of the Biden administration's sweeping climate bills, the European Union's Green Deal and China's low-carbon development initiatives announced in its latest five-year plan.)
"There's been huge, huge progress" in developing green technologies and bringing down their costs, said Bella Tonkonogy, the U.S. director of Climate Policy Initiative whose funders include the Bloomberg Foundation and the German government.
The less good news: Addressing a source of the problem is no longer enough. The effects have arrived, and extreme heat has become the leading weather-related killer in much of the world. Some cities, homeowners and businesses are investing in low-cost hacks that can help make cities, which tend to absorb and re-emit heat more than natural landscapes, more bearable in the summer. Painting roofs white or another reflective color can cool structures down, making air conditioning units as much as 15 percent more energy-efficient, said Jane Gilbert, the chief heat officer of Miami-Dade County, Fla. Homes and businesses have to be retrofitted to stay cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter, and Miami-Dade has secured millions in federal funding for that plan. Planting trees also adds vital shade to reduce temperatures on city streets.
Only about 7 percent of climate finance is focused on adaptation efforts, according to the Climate Policy Initiative. But more investors are becoming interested, Ms. Tonkonogy said. Last year, the organization partnered with LightSmith Group, a private equity firm, on a $ 186 million climate fund designed to finance climate resilience projects that could help communities adapt to and withstand the kinds of the extreme weather events that have become so frequent this summer.
"The reason that people are investing more in climate adaptation is because they're actually seeing the impacts of climate change," Ms. Tonkonogy said. -- Bernhard Warner
IN CASE YOU MISSED IT
Microsoft moves closer to sealing its $ 69 billion deal for Activision Blizzard. The F.T.C. withdrew its in-house case against the acquisition, and Britain's antitrust regulator is reconsidering its decision to block the deal. Microsoft also signed a truce with Sony, one of the biggest opponents to the deal, by agreeing to keep Call of Duty on the Japanese firm's PlayStation console for a decade after the acquisition closes.
BlackRock U-turn? The investment firm appointed Amin Nasser, the chief executive of Aramco, the Saudi oil giant, to its board. The decision was criticized by some as a hypocritical, given the public commitments made by Larry Fink, BlackRock's chief executive, to E.S.G. principles and advoacy for decarbonization. But the U.S. company said Nasser understood "the global energy industry and the drivers of the shift towards a low carbon economy."
A venture capital titan exits. Michael Moritz is set to leave Sequoia Capital, the venture capital firm, after a career as one of Silicon Valley's most successful investors. The Welsh-American former journalist backed companies including Google, Yahoo, YouTube and PayPal, earning him a reputation for spotting businesses that go on to become global giants and profiting handsomely.
"Barbenheimer" shakes up the box office. The movie business is gearing up for what is expected to be one of its best weekends in years. The reason? Two very different movies that many people plan to see back-to-back: "Barbie" and "Oppenheimer." Consumers have bought more than 200,000 tickets to watch the double-feature, according to the National Association of Theatre Owners, the industry lobby group.
A.I. brings shadow libraries into the spotlight
Large language models, or L.L.M.s, the artificial intelligence systems that power tools like ChatGPT, are developed using enormous libraries of text. Books are considered especially useful training material, because they're lengthy and (hopefully) well-written. But authors are starting to push back against their work being used this way.
This week, more than 9,000 authors, including Margaret Atwood and James Patterson, called on tech executives to stop training their tools on writers' work without compensation.
That campaign has cast a spotlight on an arcane part of the internet: so-called shadow libraries, like Library Genesis, Z-Library or Bibliotik, that are obscure repositories storing millions of titles, in many cases without permission -- and are often used as A.I. training data.
A.I. companies have acknowledged in research papers that they rely on shadow libraries. OpenAI's GPT-1 was trained on BookCorpus, which has over 7,000 unpublished titles scraped from the self-publishing platform Smashwords.
To train GPT-3, OpenAI said that about 16 percent of the data it used came from two "internet-based books corpora" that it called "Books1" and "Books2." According to a lawsuit by the comedian Sarah Silverman and two other authors against OpenAI, Books2 is most likely a "flagrantly illegal" shadow library.
These sites have been under scrutiny for some time. The Authors Guild, which organized the authors' open letter to tech executives, cited studies in 2016 and 2017 that suggested text piracy depressed legitimate book sales by as much as 14 percent.
Efforts to shut down these sites have floundered. Last year, the F.B.I., with help from the Authors Guild, charged two people accused of running Z-Library with copyright infringement, fraud and money laundering. But afterward, some of these sites were moved to the dark web and torrent sites, making it harder to trace them. And because many of these sites are run outside the United States and anonymously, actually punishing the operators is a tall task.
Tech companies are becoming more tight-lipped about the data used to train their systems. This week, Meta researchers published a paper on Llama 2, the company's L.L.M., that described using only a "new mix of data from publicly available sources." In a research paper on GPT-4 published in March, OpenAI explicitly noted that it wasn't revealing anything about how it trained the L.L.M., citing "the competitive landscape" and "safety considerations."
A soccer star and co-founder on the money in women's sports
The Women's World Cup kicked off in New Zealand this week against a backdrop of booming investor interest in women's sports. As women's leagues draw record crowds, and larger (if not equal) sponsorships, investors are pouring money into an industry they say has been under-marketed and underinvested in -- betting on growth as social media and streaming make the prime time spotlight less singularly powerful.
Aly Wagner, a two-time Olympic gold medalist, helped raise a record $ 53 million from funds, led by Sixth Street, for Bay FC, a new Bay Area soccer team, this year. DealBook spoke with her from New Zealand, where she is the lead analyst of the Women's World Cup at Fox, about the business case behind these investments. The conversation has been edited and condensed for clarity.
Sponsorship dollars still aren't equal. Why is that?
There's just a lot more assets and a lot more teams that you can partner with on the men's side than you can on the women's side.
But the other part of it is that women's sports have been an undervalued asset for way too long. It's a massive opportunity for a lot of these brands to now have great visibility for target markets at probably a discount from what you would get on the men's side.
Two prior efforts to launch new women's teams in the Bay Area folded. Why will Bay FC, which you co-founded, succeed?
Because, while it was incredible what some of the previous iterations of professional women's football did in the Bay Area, that really wasn't a business proposition. It wasn't looked at as there was going to be R.O.I. and that this was something valuable and worth holding onto as a long-term asset. This was looked at as a moral cause.
And yet, media rights still lag far behind. Apple recently signed a 10-year, $ 2.5 billion deal with Major League Soccer. The National Women's Soccer League's deal with CBS, which was signed in 2020, was worth $ 4.5 million over three years. How important is parity to R.O.I.?
Media is massive. It's one of the biggest levers you can pull in terms of the revenue for the different clubs. What's interesting about our timing, though, is the media game itself is changing. Would you want to be equal from Day 1? Sure. But what is equal? M.L.S. has been around for how many years? How many eyeballs do they put on their sport? They went behind a paywall. Has that been challenging? Probably.
As the media game changes, I think we can get really creative, and because we're a new league, we can be nimble in that regard.
Alex Ohanian called underinvestment in women's sport "a legacy of gross business incompetence ." Is it simply sexism, or something more nuanced?
Culturally, we're all raised with certain narratives -- some of them conscious, some of them unconscious. I think the biggest hurdle that we've had to overcome is just that a lot of the world believes in seeing things before they believe them. Men were playing sports long before women were at a competitive level, right? And long before it became an investment opportunity. And so we were just behind in that evolution.
Thanks for reading! We'll see you Monday.
We'd like your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Photograph Modifying homes to keep cool in the summer is an important investment as extreme heat becomes more frequent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK T. FALLON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Womens sports; Energy industry; Climate policy; Books; Carbon; Social networks; Venture capital; Tournaments & championships; Heat; Libraries; Environmental policy; Soccer; Climate change

Business indexing term: Subject: Energy industry Social networks Venture capital

Location: New Zealand; United States--US; China

People: Wagner, Aly

Company / organization: Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715; Name: Authors Guild; NAICS: 813910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/22/business/dealbook/extreme-heat-climate-investment.html

Title: Extreme Heat Waves Show Need for Climate Adaptation:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 24, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840911636

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/extreme-h eat-waves-show-need-climate-adaptation/docview/2840911636/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

X Will Replace Twitter's Bird, Musk Declares: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Scheiber, Noam; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Scheiber, Noam; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/x-will-replace-twitters-bird-musk-declares/docview/2840911617/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The tech billionaire indicated he would replace the company's blue bird silhouette with an X.
Elon Musk said he was about to make one of the most visible changes to Twitter since he took control of the social media company last fall: replacing its widely recognized bird logo.
In a tweet early Sunday morning Eastern time, Mr. Musk said that "soon we shall bid adieu to the twitter brand and, gradually, all the birds."
He added shortly after, "If a good enough X logo is posted tonight," it would "go live worldwide tomorrow."
"X" is a term for what Mr. Musk has described as an "everything app" that could combine social media, instant messaging and payment services, akin to the popular Chinese app WeChat.
Mr. Musk has said that buying Twitter is "an accelerant to creating X," and the corporate entity he created to purchase and control Twitter is called X Holdings.
Mr. Musk spoke on a Twitter audio livestream early Sunday to say he was changing Twitter's logo. "It should have been done a long time ago," he said. "Sorry it took so long."
A few hours later, Mr. Musk said in an email to Twitter's employees that "we are indeed changing to X" and that it was happening "today." "This is my last message from a Twitter email," he wrote, before signing off with a salute emoji.
Mr. Musk has few barriers to making such alterations at the company after taking it private as part of his acquisition of the firm. But he could still encounter resistance from the banks that have lent him billions of dollars and the private investors he brought into the deal, who could raise concerns about jettisoning one of Twitter's most visible assets.
The company saw its advertising revenue plummet amid the departure of sales executives and worries that the site had become more prone to problematic content. It now faces a well-funded rival in Threads, the recently introduced Twitter-like service from Meta, the owner of Facebook.
Twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Musk has had a long affinity for the letter X. In 1999, he co-founded X.com, an online bank, and later merged it with another start-up to create PayPal. In 2017, he said that he repurchased the X.com domain from PayPal.
Mr. Musk has not always followed through on his public pronouncements, such as when he tweeted that the company would create a content moderation council to judge what kind of speech is acceptable on the site.
But he has pressed ahead in altering certain Twitter practices, like ending the free verification of prominent users' accounts, denoted by a white-and-blue check mark, and charging users a subscription fee for the check mark instead.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Logos; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Logos Social networks

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/23/business/elon-musk-twitter-logo.html

Title: X Will Replace Twitter's Bird, Musk Declares:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 24, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840911617

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/x-will-replace-twitters-bird-musk-declares/docview/2840911617/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Worlds Apart: Cup’s Expansion Brings the Games of a Lifetime

Author: Longman, Jeré

Publication info: Longman, Jeré. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/worlds-apart-cup-s-expansion-brings-games/docview/2838039050/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
HANOI, Vietnam — When Vietnam fielded its first women’s national soccer team in 1997, its players wore oversized jerseys made for men. At times, the team had to travel an hour and a half from Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, to reach an available training site. Some players pushed carts on the street and sold bread to sustain their nascent playing careers.
In the years after the Vietnam War — called the American War here — ended in 1975, economic reform took precedence over sports. The Vietnam Football Federation, which governs soccer in the unified country, was not established until 1989. In its early days, soccer was widely considered a game for men, too hard and demanding for women to play. With little money available, the sport hardly seemed a desirable career choice for girls. But that did not matter in most cases: Many parents were reluctant to let their daughters play.
“Society didn’t accept the existence of such a team,” said Mai Duc Chung, 74, Vietnam’s women’s national coach then and now.
A quarter-century later, Vietnam is one of the dominant teams in Southeast Asia. This month, it will play for the first time in the Women’s World Cup, starting with a game against the United States, the two-time defending champion, on Friday night (Eastern time) in Auckland, New Zealand.
Vietnam’s arrival is the culmination of its nearly decadelong plan to develop women’s soccer, in part through expansion of the World Cup field from 16 to 24 and now to 32 teams, making this year’s tournament the largest in history. That growth is giving opportunities to nontraditional powers: Eight nations in this year’s tournament — one-fourth of the field — are participating for the first time.
This will be the biggest soccer moment for Vietnam and the other first-timers, a group that includes teams as diverse as Haiti, Ireland, Morocco and the Philippines. It will mean increased visibility and funding, enhanced professionalization of the sport and additional financial rewards. FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, has promised at least $30,000 in prize money to each player participating in this year’s tournament.
But that same growth will bring inexperience and the prospect of severe competitive imbalance when the newcomers face off against the world’s best teams. It was with great fulfillment that Vietnam qualified ahead of its fiercest rival, Thailand. But gratification comes with burdensome pressure to avoid embarrassing performances, including losing 13-0 to the United States, as Thailand did in the last Women’s World Cup, in 2019.
“We witnessed the fiasco, and it’s a lesson learned for Vietnam,” said Huynh Nhu, the team’s star forward. She spoke through an interpreter, as did others interviewed for this article. “Thailand suffered such a big loss, they just kind of fell backward, and their fighting spirit is no longer there. No matter what happens against the United States and other powers, we will keep fighting.”
Participating in the Women’s World Cup represents great national pride and international sporting achievement for Vietnam, a country that has won only one Olympic gold medal (in air-pistol shooting, at the 2016 Rio Olympics) and has never qualified for the men’s World Cup, and where men’s soccer is better known for regular episodes of corruption and match fixing.
But similar pride and similar hardships overcome are echoed across the other debutantes in this year’s field. Ireland’s captain, Katie McCabe, grew up playing on boys teams, encouraged by an older brother and parents who now watch her play for the London club Arsenal. Haiti’s players navigated a national system in which federation officials have been accused of coercing young players into sex, and Morocco’s players overcame profound traditional biases and frequent family objections to become the first team from a majority Arab country to qualify.
Vietnam’s team has come as far as any of them. Once shunned, or simply ignored, the Vietnamese women are now national names. They were welcomed by their country’s prime minister after earning their World Cup place in a qualifying tournament in India last year and were given a parade on a double-decker bus through the streets of Ho Chi Minh City. Their World Cup matches will be broadcast live to their fellow citizens on various platforms.
More than any Vietnamese player, Huynh Nhu, 31, represents possibility and inequality that coexist in her country and, effectively, for women’s soccer worldwide. She is the first female player from Vietnam to play for a club team in Europe, having scored seven goals in the recently completed season for Lank FC Vilaverdense in Portugal’s second division. After the World Cup, Huynh Nhu is expected to extend her contract with the club, which has reportedly offered to double her salary to 3,000 euros (about $3,200) per month.
That is a stark contrast to the average salary of $200 to $300 per month in the semiprofessional women’s league in Vietnam.
On an annualized basis, those salaries remain below the country’s per capita gross domestic product of $3,756.50 a year, according to the World Bank. Players often take second jobs to supplement their incomes. Before moving to Portugal last season, for example, Huynh Nhu operated a business selling coconuts in her rural hometown in the Mekong Delta.
She said she now had corporate affiliations with Visa, Coca-Cola and LG electronics. And she is the face of the unprecedented news coverage and sponsorship attention currently being lavished on the Vietnamese women’s national team. While away from their clubs and training and participating in international competitions, members of the national team can earn about $850 a month, according to Mai, the national coach. (Journalists said money was deducted for meals and housing.)
Players have also been awarded bonuses by the Vietnamese Football Federation and sponsors for recent triumphs. Not all bonuses are known, and it remains unclear exactly how much of the bonus pool is divided among the players and the coaches. But the publicized pool is equivalent to $8,000 apiece for winning the Southeast Asian Games in May for an eighth time and, according to journalists, $15,000 or more for qualifying for the World Cup. Bonuses are not always financial, either; they can also include motorbikes and cars.
Those figures are “very modest” compared with what top male soccer players can make in salary and endorsements in Vietnam, said Cao Huy Tho, an executive, former sports editor and longtime advocate for gender equity at Tuoi Tre, a leading newspaper in Vietnam. But “it’s very meaningful, life-changing for the women, because most of them come from very poor backgrounds.”
Huynh Nhu’s family, for instance, is building a three-story home, which includes a shrine to her career and appears to be the tallest in the area, in her hometown, Tra Vinh.
Women in Vietnam’s national league who do not play on the national team endure a far more modest existence. League attendance is extremely low, roughly 100 to 300 people per match, journalists said, leaving many businesses reluctant to sponsor teams.
When a team representing Son La Province in northwest Vietnam struggled to maintain sponsorships in recent years, its players’ monthly salaries plummeted to as low as $130 or even $70 — much less than could be earned doing factory work. Some players left for better-paying jobs, and Son La is no longer in the league. Last year, as the club faced disbanding, its coach, Luong Van Chuyen, lamented to an online newspaper that he had only four players available. The others, Luong said, “quit to return home to get married and to become workers.”
The issue of disparate treatment of female soccer players reached the highest levels of government after Vietnam qualified for the Women’s World Cup. In greeting the returning players, Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh called them “diamond girls” but also noted that they still faced prejudice in playing what many still consider a man’s game, as well as hardships resulting from precarious incomes and lack of security in retirement.
“We need to pay more attention to women’s football,” Pham said, calling on soccer officials, government agencies and sponsors to help develop a sustainable model for the sport. It is unclear what steps, if any, have been taken to pursue that goal.
Soccer was introduced to Vietnam in 1896 during the French colonial period. The country claims to have fielded Asia’s first women’s team, which played briefly against men in the early 1930s. After the Vietnam War, though, an unofficial prohibition of women’s soccer existed into the early 1990s, according to Cao, the journalist who began covering the sport later that decade.
To circumvent the ban, Cao said, a sympathetic pharmacy executive in Ho Chi Minh City transported female players to matches against men’s teams by hiding them in cargo trucks covered with tarpaulins. When a women’s national team was officially formed in 1997, Nguyen Thi Kim Hong was one of the players who sold bread to maintain their careers.
“It was our passion only; money was never the purpose for the first generation,” said Nguyen, now 51 and goalkeeper coach for the women’s national team.
Some of today’s current stars faced resistance from their parents when they began playing. Nguyen Thi Bich Thuy, 29, was the youngest of three children, and although her father had been a soccer player, her parents worried that if she moved away from home in central Vietnam, “nobody will mother you anymore.” Eventually, she said, her father became her biggest supporter.
In February 2022, after Vietnam’s bid for World Cup qualification nearly imploded as the coronavirus ravaged the women’s team, Bich Thuy scored the most important goal in the country’s history — a deft touch with her right foot and a decisive and historic shot with her left in a 2-1 playoff victory over Taiwan, which FIFA refers to as Chinese Taipei. She dedicated the goal to her father, who died in 2016.
“I’m still feeling it now, like a dream,” Bich Thuy said of the goal. “My father always expected a lot of me. I’m sure he would be happy to see that.”
Huynh Nhu had more unconditional support from her parents. Her father, a former player, began coaching her when she was 3 or 4. Her mother worked in a market in rural Tra Vinh and brought home a soccer ball at Huynh Nhu’s request. Her father said he had attached the ball to a rope to keep her from kicking it into a canal outside the home. Now she leads Vietnam’s national team, with the aim of scoring a goal in the World Cup. That may be, for now, a more achievable goal than expecting to win a game in a group that includes the United States, the Netherlands (the 2019 World Cup runner-up) and Portugal, a fellow debutante that lies just outside the Top 20 in the latest world rankings.
Told that the benefactor of Thailand’s team at the 2019 Women’s World Cup, one of the richest women in the country, had exhorted her players by saying, “If you score, I’ll buy you a $5,000 Chanel bag,” Huynh Nhu laughed.
“I look forward to having such a billionaire in my country,” she said.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Journalists; Tournaments & championships; Bonuses; Economic reform; Coaches & managers; Soccer; Vietnam War; Prime ministers; Corporate sponsorship; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Bonuses Economic reform Corporate sponsorship Wages & salaries

Location: Thailand; Ireland; United States--US; Vietnam; Portugal; Haiti; Morocco

Identifier / keyword: United States; Politics And Government; Coaches And Managers; Records And Achievements; International Relations; Executive Compensation; Labor And Jobs; India; Morocco; Poverty; Vietnam War; Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam); Thailand; Olympic Games (2012); Bonuses; Mekong River; Parties (Social); Philippines; Coca Cola Company; Taiwan; Sports; Relocation Of Business; World Cup 2022 (Soccer); Men And Boys; Europe; Debutantes; Steroids; Taipei (Taiwan); Auckland (New Zealand); Ireland; International Federation Of Association Football (Fifa); Discrimination; Names, Geographical; Wages And Salaries; Awards, Decorations And Honors; World Cup (Soccer); Portugal; Women And Girls; Olympic Games (2016); Advertising And Marketing; Haiti; Accidents And Safety; Southeast Asia; Soccer; Uniforms; Vietnam; Arsenal (Soccer Team); Newspapers; New Zealand; Transit Systems; Netherlands; France; Visa Inc; World Bank; Rio De Janeiro (Brazil); Soft Drinks; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Ethics And Official Misconduct

Title: Worlds Apart: Cup’s Expansion Brings the Games of a Lifetime

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 16, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-16T22:45:05Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2838039050

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/worlds-apart-cup-s-expansion-brings-games/docview/2838039050/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Twitter and the New Right's Theory of Power: [Op-Ed]

Author: French, David

Publication info: French, David. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/twitter-new-rights-theory-power/docview/2837236294/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: If you spend much time online, you witnessed something remarkable last week. Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, introduced a competitor to Twitter called Threads, and the public response was astonishing. As my colleague Mike Isaac detailed in The Times, Threads had two million users in its first two hours. Two hours later, it had five million users. The next day, Mark Zuckerberg, Meta's chief executive, said it had 30 million. Isaac wrote that Threads "appears to have taken the crown as the most rapidly downloaded app ever." An independent tracker purports to show that the app is still adding about a million users per day.
Some caveats are in order. Since Threads is a Meta project, it was able to take advantage of Instagram's network effects to boost its growth. This gave it an immense advantage that other Twitter alternatives -- such as Bluesky, Notes and Mastodon -- didn't enjoy. In addition, as Isaac reminded readers in a cautionary follow-up piece, early growth isn't a guarantee of ultimate success.
Still, even with those caveats, Threads' early success is remarkable. It not only caught the attention of Twitter's owner, Elon Musk (after Threads' introduction, he hurled a series of childishly obscene taunts at Zuckerberg); its debut coincided with an apparent decline in Twitter's internet traffic. So it's worth exploring why -- beyond Meta's market power -- Threads has grown so quickly.
I have a theory: Threads exploded in part because Elon Musk did to Twitter what Donald Trump did to America. The new right's theory of culture and power is fundamentally flawed, and both Trump and Musk are now cautionary tales for any conservatives who are willing to learn.
To understand what Musk did to Twitter, we shouldn't exaggerate the virtue of Twitter before Musk any more than we should exaggerate the health of our body politic before Trump. Even before Musk, Twitter had become a toxic force in American culture, so toxic that I wrote last year it might be beyond repair. The site lurched from outrage to outrage, and the constant drumbeat of anger and crisis was bad for the soul.
So, yes, when Musk purchased Twitter, it needed help. Instead, he made it worse. Much worse.
For all of Twitter's many flaws, it was still by far the best social media app for following breaking news, especially if you knew which accounts to follow. It was also the best app for seeing the thoughts of journalists, politicians and scholars in real time, sometimes to our detriment. It wasn't the American town square -- there are still many places where we talk to one another -- but it was one of our town squares. Twitter mattered.
Then Musk bought it. He restored several banned accounts while stripping thousands of journalists, politicians and others of the blue verification badges that confirmed their identities. Instead, he allowed anyone to buy a blue check mark by subscribing to a premium service, Twitter Blue, that also boosted the visibility of some subscribers' posts. He claimed he was ending a "lords & peasants system" and granting "power to the people."
Instead, he created a lords and peasants system in which the lords were Twitter Blue subscribers -- often Musk fans and right-wing trolls -- and the peasants were the journalists and politicians whose tweets had previously given the site its value. Twitter without those political and cultural leaders is little more than Gab or Parler, smaller competitors that are the near-exclusive domain of bigots and bullies.
Making comparisons to these niche right-wing sites even more inevitable, Musk began publicly interacting with and thus elevating some of the most unpleasant and absurd accounts on Twitter, including, most notably, an anonymous right-wing troll who calls himself "Catturd." The cumulative effect was to create an online space that was miserable for the very people who had been responsible for much, if not most, of the traffic and attention to the site.
It's one thing to do this to a captive audience. When people perceive that there's no other option, they'll grit their teeth and make the best of a bad situation. After all, people had spent years on Twitter, building sometimes-immense followings. But this is a free society with a free market, and though that free market can move slowly and imperfectly, move it shall. In this case, the prime movers were Zuckerberg and Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram.
Threads is far from perfect. It's still bare bones, and much like Instagram, it's filled with pop-culture content, but I find my more sports- and entertainment-heavy feed refreshing. More important, however, the platform has a substantially better culture than Twitter's -- at least so far. In one of my own posts on Threads, I compared the sensation to the relief you feel when someone stops hitting you with a hammer. The lack of constant abuse is extraordinarily refreshing.
But there's a bigger lesson here than the simple truism that free markets are quite adept at building better mousetraps (or websites). The new right's theory of power is based on a model of domination and imposition, and it just doesn't work. In the new right's telling, the story of contemporary American culture is the story of progressive elite capture of the nation's most important institutions -- from the academy to big business to pop culture to the "deep state" -- followed by its remorseless use of that institutional power to warp and distort American values.
And what's the new right's response to its theory of the left's use of power? Fight fire with fire. Take over institutions. They tried to cancel us? Cancel them. They bullied us? Bully them. Or, as Sohrab Ahmari put it directly, "fight the culture war with the aim of defeating the enemy and enjoying the spoils in the form of a public square reordered to the common good and ultimately the Highest Good."
This is a fundamentally top-down model of culture change, and it's not entirely off. Leaders can have a profound cultural impact, and we have seen that when institutions are captured by a monoculture, they can grow intolerant. There has, in fact, been too much bullying in elite American institutions.
Yet that top-down model doesn't really explain how American culture works. To the extent that Americans have become more liberal, it's often in spite of pressure from the far left, not because of it. As a rule, Americans do not simply conform to elite demands. They rebel. Indeed, the groundswells of support for Trump and Musk represent two prominent examples of the right's rebellions against the left.
But rebellions don't arise only from the right. Any form of domination and bullying will create a backlash, and that backlash will gain particular momentum when the bullies are both aggressive and absurd -- and that's exactly the world that both Trump and Musk built.
When I watch the world's richest man take "Catturd" seriously, traffic in conspiracy theories and interact with a menagerie of right-wing trolls, these words come to mind: Four Seasons Total Landscaping. Who can forget when the legal team of the president of the United States, including Rudy Giuliani, promoted its alleged examples of voter fraud at a landscaping business in Philadelphia almost adjacent to a crematory and a porn shop? The only thing that keeps one from laughing at episodes like this one, and at Musk's juvenile tweets, is the depressing realization that both Trump and Musk possess immense power and maintain loyal followings in the tens of millions.
Before he took over Twitter, I knew that Elon Musk had his flaws, but I also saw a lot to admire. In many ways, he represented an inspiring American story. He is an immigrant entrepreneur who helped found PayPal, built a company, Tesla, that has revolutionized the car industry, and founded another company, SpaceX, that's transforming space travel. Yet now, tweet by tweet, he squanders his good will, diminishes the value of the company he bought and pollutes the public square by elevating many of America's most malignant voices.
Musk is yet another sad symbol of a sad time for the American right. In a country that needs good leaders, populism has delivered Donald Trump and Elon Musk. A government that needs reform encountered a politician who broke far more than he built. A social media platform that needed repair was purchased by its most prominent troll. The results were predictable. Thankfully, free people and free markets can still correct our national course.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EPOXYDUDE/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Journalists; Culture; Voter fraud; Bullying; Free markets; Politicians; Social networks; American culture

Business indexing term: Subject: Free markets Social networks

People: Trump, Donald J; Musk, Elon

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/13/opinion/twitter-new-right.html

Title: Twitter and the New Right's Theory of Power:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 15, 2023

column: David French

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2837236294

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/twitter-new-rights-theory-power/docview/2837236294/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Rapinoe, on the Bench, a California Send-Off Before a Final World Cup: [Correction]

Author: Fahy, Claire

Publication info: Fahy, Claire. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rapinoe-on-bench-california-send-off-before-final/docview/2834856344/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Megan Rapinoe began her long goodbye with the equivalent of a homecoming.
In the decade and a half since she became a professional soccer player, Rapinoe's career has taken her to soccer clubs on two continents, to Olympic Games on three and, soon, to a fourth World Cup. On Sunday, a day after she surprised her team and her fans by publicly announcing plans to retire at the end of this year, Rapinoe found herself settling into a seat on the U.S. women's national team bench a couple hundred miles from her hometown.
Rapinoe, 38, grew up in Redding, Calif., about 250 miles north of the site of Sunday's game, PayPal Park in San Jose. She estimated that about 40 of her family members and friends had made the trip south to see the United States beat Wales, 2-0, in its final game on American soil ahead of the Women's World Cup that starts later this month in Australia and New Zealand.
"This is the closest that I'll ever get to play to Redding in my career," Rapinoe had said on Saturday. "It does feel very special. It feels perfect."
During the news conference in which she announced her retirement plans on Saturday, Rapinoe had said that she was at peace with the decision to step away from soccer. Now, she was just enjoying the chance to give a proper goodbye to the sport that made her an international star, as well as a spokeswoman for equal rights, equal pay and social justice issues close to her heart.
Rapinoe has played for the national team since 2006. A three-time Olympian and two-time World Cup champion, she has scored 63 goals for the United States and is one of seven players to have accumulated more than 50 goals and 50 assists in her U.S. national team career.
Her role is different these days, having evolved from a lineup fixture to a late-game substitute. She is still valued by her coach, Vlatko Andonovski, though; he included her on his World Cup roster because he values her leadership, experience and ability to shape big moments.
Whenever and however she plays going forward, she remains a crowd favorite. One fan, Corina Burns, who wore a No. 15 T-shirt with the name "Rapinoe" on the back, said she drove from Southern California with her three daughters to attend Sunday's game. It wasn't the family's first trip to see the national team play: They were in France four years ago when Rapinoe was one of the Americans' most valuable players in their victory at the 2019 World Cup.
"We saw her play and fell in love with her," Burns said.
That World Cup remains, for now, Rapinoe's crowning achievement. She won both the Golden Boot as the tournament's top scorer and the Golden Ball as its outstanding player. It is also when she cemented her status as a pop culture icon: She scored six goals in the competition even as she publicly battled with President Donald J. Trump.
She remains an outspoken voice, but she is a different player these days. Rapinoe has been hampered by injuries for months, with an ankle injury keeping her out of the start of the National Women's Soccer League season and a calf injury keeping her out of two national team matches against Ireland in April. Andonovski said following Sunday's game that Rapinoe was medically cleared to play in the World Cup, but was still working up to game fitness.
In her absence, newer faces -- Sophia Smith, Trinity Rodman, Alyssa Thompson -- have begun to lay claim to the forward position where Rapinoe was once a clear choice. That new generation, the one that will occupy the space vacated by Rapinoe, was on display again against Wales.
In the 76th minute on Sunday, Rodman, 21, broke through in a scoreless game by scoring easily off a cross from Smith, 22. Rodman struck again in the 88th minute, powering a shot from 20 yards past the hands of Wales goalkeeper Olivia Clark. Rodman became the youngest American player to score two goals in an international match since 2019."It's a younger roster this year, but the mix of the experience and the youth has been really good to learn from each other," Rodman said after the game as chants of "U.S.A." echoed around the stadium. "Just as much as we can learn from them, they can also learn from us."
In that regard, Rapinoe still has much to offer. Andonovski has made no secret of how much he values the wisdom and institutional knowledge she brings to a team that now features players like the 18-year-old Thompson, who is fresh out of high school, and Savannah DeMelo, 25, who received her first cap on Sunday, in addition to the dozen other new faces headed to their first World Cup.
That the U.S. struggled to break down a resolute Wales team that failed to qualify for the World Cup until Rodman scored twice off the bench was perhaps a hopeful indication that Rapinoe might still have an important role to play before she walks away from the team for good.
Her chance never arrived on Sunday: Rapinoe did not warm up and Andonovski never called for her to come on. It was another sign that although Rapinoe said her time is almost up, the times may have already changed.
Photograph Emily Fox, left, and the United States defeated Wales, 2-0. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN HEFTI/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page D3.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Women; Soccer

Location: Wales; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

People: Rapinoe, Megan

Title: For Rapinoe, on the Bench, a California Send-Off Before a Final World Cup:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 10, 2023

column: Ted States 2, Wales 0

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2834856344

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rapinoe-on-bench-california-send-off-before-final/docview/2834856344/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 10, 2023

Last updated: 2025-06-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Money in Your Venmo Account Isn't Protected: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Carrns, Ann

Publication info: Carrns, Ann. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/money-your-venmo-account-isnt-protected/docview/2824190321/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is warning that the funds may be at risk if the app's parent company runs into trouble.
Millions of Americans use mobile payment apps to pay friends, family and retailers, but they may not know that money held in the apps often lacks federal insurance protection.
Unlike deposits in savings and checking accounts at federally insured banks, funds stored in many "peer to peer" apps aren't automatically protected, potentially putting cash at risk if the app's parent company stumbles financially, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau warned in a consumer advisory this month.
As more people go cashless, apps like Venmo, Cash App and Apple Cash have gained popularity as an easy way to split a dinner tab, buy stuff at yard sales or pay bills. Use of the apps increased during the pandemic, experts say, as people shifted to online shopping and contactless payment methods.
Transaction volume on such apps was an estimated $ 893 billion last year, the bureau said, and is projected to reach $ 1.6 trillion by 2027. More than three-quarters of the nation's adults say they have used one of four popular payment apps, according to the Pew Research Center.
"Popular digital payment apps are increasingly used as substitutes for a traditional bank or credit union account but lack the same protections to ensure that funds are safe," Rohit Chopra, the consumer bureau's director, said in a statement.
States do offer protections for app users. The consumer bureau noted the role of state regulators in its analysis, but said rules varied. Some states may allow companies to invest customer funds in potentially risky securities, and some impose "no restrictions at all."
Most payment apps are required by states to hold reserves -- typically in low-risk accounts -- equal to the amount of consumer funds they are holding, said Judith Rinearson, a partner at the law firm K&L Gates who specializes in payments technology and co-author of a blog post that criticizes the consumer bureau's advisory.
"To suggest that all balances held in payment apps should be automatically swept into bank accounts, where fees are often higher, where payments are slower and where the bank itself could have a 'run' on deposits -- is wrongheaded," the blog post said.
Americans are paying more attention to the details of federal deposit insurance in the wake of several high-profile bank failures. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a government agency funded by member banks, generally covers deposits of up to $ 250,000 per depositor, per member bank, in the event a bank collapses. (Credit unions have comparable protection through a separate agency, the National Credit Union Association.)
But most payment apps are operated by financial technology companies that enable the free, near-instant transfer of money. Users typically link a traditional bank account or payment card to move funds into the app and to withdraw payments they receive from other users.
After getting a payment -- say, after sharing a meal with a friend -- users receive funds in their app account. The money stays there until users move the money into their bank accounts.
Some users, however, leave money in the apps for a future payment, treating them as traditional banks. That is a concern, the consumer bureau said, because funds in the apps' "stored value" accounts may not carry F.D.I.C. protection.
Consumer Reports found in a March 2022 survey that 6 percent of app users fund payments from a balance they maintain within the app. The magazine said in a report this year that given the growing number of people using payment apps and the "lack of clarity" around how to obtain F.D.I.C. insurance for them, "we suspect a large portion of these funds are uninsured."
The apps do team up with F.D.I.C.-insured banks to offer accounts with "pass through" F.D.I.C. insurance protection. But users may have to take extra steps or sign up for certain services to activate the coverage, the bureau found. Cash App balances, for instance, can be covered by an F.D.I.C.-insured partner bank if a user successfully applies for the company's debit card. Also, if an adult sponsors an account for a minor, balances in both accounts are insured by the F.D.I.C., according to Cash App's website.
Venmo balances can be covered by deposit insurance at partner banks when customers use the app's direct deposit or check-cashing options. Apple Cash users must register their account with its partner bank, Green Dot, to obtain insurance coverage.
All that may be challenging for users to keep track of, said Amy Zirkle, the consumer bureau's senior program manager for payments and deposits markets. "Some user agreements are murky and not necessarily understandable for consumers," she said in an interview.
The Financial Technology Association, a lobbying group for companies including PayPal, parent of Venmo, and Block, which owns Cash App, defended its members' practices, saying they explain their policies in "clear and easy-to-understand" terms and give priority to consumer protection.
"These accounts are safe and transparent, with users receiving F.D.I.C. insurance on their accounts depending on the products they use," Penny Lee, the association's chief executive, said in an email.
An Apple Cash spokeswoman declined to comment on the bureau's report.
Here are some questions and answers about payment apps:
How can I protect funds stored in a payment app?
It's wise to move money from your payment app to your bank account as soon as possible, Consumer Reports recommends.
The federal consumer bureau suggests setting up automatic reminders -- it offers a link in the advisory to send email reminders to yourself and others -- to move funds. "Think about the amount of money you keep on the app," Ms. Zirkle said.
The bureau also said it was coordinating with other federal and state regulators to monitor the growing payments industry and "take appropriate steps."
Are funds transferred through the Zelle service protected by federal deposit insurance?
Zelle is a popular payment network operated by Early Warning Services, which is owned by seven big banks. Rather than hold funds, Zelle moves them between accounts at participating banks, Meghan Fintland, a spokeswoman, said in an email. She added that "all consumer funds sent and received through financial institutions in the Zelle network" moved through accounts insured by the F.D.I.C. or the N.C.U.A.
Where can I complain if I have a problem with a payment app?
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau says users can submit complaints on its website. The Conference of State Bank Supervisors offers contact information for state regulators.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B6.

Subject: Mobile commerce; Bank accounts; Bank technology; Insurance coverage; Deposit insurance; Consumer protection

Business indexing term: Subject: Mobile commerce Bank accounts Bank technology Insurance coverage Deposit insurance Consumer protection

Company / organization: Name: Consumer Reports; NAICS: 513120; Name: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; NAICS: 926150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/09/your-money/venmo-cash-app-paypal-payment-apps.html

Title: Money in Your Venmo Account Isn't Protected:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (Eas t Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 10, 2023

column: Your Money Adviser

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2824190321

Document URL: https://www .proquest.com/newspapers/money-your-venmo-account-isnt-protected/docview/2824190321/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Entrepreneur Is on Mission To Show A.I. Can Do Good: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/entrepreneur-is-on-mission-show-i-can-do-good/docview/2819936229/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Reid Hoffman, billionaire entrepreneur and venture capital investor, is worried about artificial intelligence -- but not for the doomsday reasons making headlines. Instead, he worries the doomsday headlines are too negative.
So in recent months, Mr. Hoffman has engaged in an aggressive thought-leadership regimen to extol the virtues of A.I. He has done so in blog posts, television interviews and fireside chats. He has spoken to government officials around the world. He hosts three podcasts and a YouTube channel. And in March, he published a book, "Impromptu," co-written with the A.I. tool GPT-4.
It's all part of the land grab for public opinion around A.I. in preparation for when the initial burst of fear and hype over the technology settles into a coherent debate. Sides will be chosen, regulation will be proposed, and tech tools will become politicized. For now, industry leaders like Mr. Hoffman are trying to nudge the terms of the discussion in their favor, even as public concerns only seem to grow.
"I'm beating the positive drum very loudly, and I'm doing so deliberately," he said.
Few are as intertwined in so many facets of the fast-moving industry as Mr. Hoffman. The 55-year-old sits on the boards of 11 tech companies including Microsoft, which has gone all in on A.I., and eight nonprofits. His venture capital firm, Greylock Partners, has backed at least 37 A.I. companies. He was among the first investors in OpenAI, the most prominent A.I. start-up, and recently left its board. He also helped found Inflection AI, an A.I. chatbot start-up that has raised at least $ 225 million.
And then there is his more abstract goal of "elevating humanity," or helping people improve their circumstances, a concept he relays in an affable, matter-of-fact manner. Mr. Hoffman believes A.I. is critical to that mission and as examples points to its potential to transform areas like health care -- "giving everyone a medical assistant"; and education -- "giving everyone a tutor."
"That's part of the responsibility that we should be thinking about here," he said.
Mr. Hoffman is among a small group of interconnected tech executives leading the A.I. charge, many of whom also led the last internet boom. He is a member of the "PayPal Mafia" of former PayPal executives that includes Elon Musk and Peter Thiel. The latter two backed DeepMind, an A.I. start-up that Google bought, and all three were early backers of OpenAI. Jessica Livingston, a founder of the start-up incubator Y Combinator, also put money into OpenAI; Sam Altman, OpenAI's chief executive, was previously president of Y Combinator.
Mr. Musk has now started his own A.I. company, X.AI. Mr. Thiel's venture firm, Founders Fund, has backed more than 70 A.I. companies, including OpenAI, according to PitchBook, which tracks start-up investments. Mr. Altman has invested in several A.I. start-ups on top of running OpenAI, which itself has invested in seven A.I. start-ups through its start-up fund. And Y Combinator's latest batch of start-ups included 78 focused on A.I., nearly double its last group.
The tech leaders differ on A.I.'s risks and opportunities and have been loudly promoting their takes in the marketplace of ideas.
Mr. Musk recently warned of A.I.'s dangers on Bill Maher's show and in a sit-down with Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York. Mr. Hoffman has explained the technology's potential to Vice President Kamala Harris, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg. Last week, Mr. Altman said in a congressional hearing that "the benefits of the tools we have deployed so far vastly outweigh the risks."
In Mr. Hoffman's view, warnings about A.I.'s existential risk to humanity overstate what the technology can do. And he believes that other potential issues caused by A.I. -- job loss, destruction of democracy, disruption of the economy -- have an obvious fix: more technology.
"The solutions live in the future, not by enshrining the past," he said.
That's a tough pitch to a public that has seen tech's harmful effects over the last decade, including social media misinformation and autonomous vehicle crashes. And this time, the risks are even larger, said Oded Netzer, a professor at Columbia Business School.
"It's not just the risks, it's how fast they are moving," Mr. Netzer said of tech companies' handling of A.I. "I don't think we can hope or trust that the industry will regulate itself."
Mr. Hoffman's pro-A.I. campaign, he said, is meant to foster trust where it's broken. "It's not to say that there won't be some harms in some areas," he said. "The question is could we learn and iterate to a much better state?"
Mr. Hoffman has been thinking about that question since he studied symbolic systems at Stanford University in the late 1980s. There, he imagined how A.I. would facilitate "our Promethean moment," he said in a YouTube video from March. "We can make these new things and we can journey with them."
After working at PayPal and co-founding LinkedIn, the professional social network, in 2002, Mr. Hoffman began investing in start-ups including Nauto, Nuro and Aurora Innovation, all focused on applying A.I. tech to transportation. He also joined an A.I. ethics committee at DeepMind.
Mustafa Suleyman, DeepMind's co-founder, said Mr. Hoffman differed from other venture capitalists in that his primary motivation was doing good in the world.
"How can we be in service of humanity? He asked that question all the time," Mr. Suleyman said.
When Mr. Suleyman began working on his latest start-up, Inflection AI, he found Mr. Hoffman's strategic advice to be so useful that he asked him to help found the company. Greylock invested in the start-up last year.
Mr. Hoffman was also there in OpenAI's early days. At an Italian restaurant in San Jose, Calif., in 2015, he met with Mr. Musk and Mr. Altman to discuss the beginnings of the company, which has a mission of ensuring that the most powerful A.I. "benefits all of humanity."
Several years later, when OpenAI was thinking about corporate partnerships, Mr. Hoffman said he encouraged Mr. Altman to meet with Microsoft, which had bought LinkedIn in 2016.
Mr. Altman said he was initially anxious that Microsoft, a behemoth with a duty to prioritize its shareholders, might not take seriously OpenAI's mission and unusual structure of capping its profits. In any large, complicated deal, Mr. Altman said, "everyone's anxious about, 'How is this really going to work?"'
Mr. Hoffman helped smooth things out. He talked Mr. Altman through various concerns while wearing metaphorical "hats" as an OpenAI board member, a Microsoft board member, and as himself.
"You have to be really clear about which hat you're talking with," Mr. Hoffman said.
Mr. Altman said Mr. Hoffman helped OpenAI "model Microsoft and think about what they'd care about, what they'd be good at, what they'd be bad at, and similar to them for us."
In 2019, OpenAI and Microsoft struck a $ 1 billion agreement, which has propelled them into a leading position today. (To avoid a conflict of interest, Mr. Hoffman was not part of the negotiations and abstained from voting to approve the deal on each board.)
A little over a year ago, as Mr. Hoffman saw the progress OpenAI was making on its GPT-3 language model, he had another Promethean moment. He immediately flipped an A.I. switch on nearly everything he worked on, including Greylock's new investments and existing start-ups as well as his podcast, book and discussions with government officials.
"It was basically like, 'If it's not this, it better be something that's absolutely critical for society,"' he said.
OpenAI released a chatbot, ChatGPT, in November, which became a sensation. One Greylock investment, Tome, integrated OpenAI's GPT-3 technology into its "storytelling" software immediately after. The number of Tome users skyrocketed to six million from a few thousand teams, said Keith Peiris, Tome's chief executive.
Mr. Hoffman said his approach was shaped, in part, by his access to "extremely high-quality information flows," Some is through his business relationships with Microsoft, OpenAI and others. Some is through various philanthropies, like Stanford's A.I. center.
And some is through his political connections. He has poured millions of dollars into Democratic campaigns and political action committees. Barack Obama is a friend, he said.
For now, he's using his influence to paint a picture of A.I.-driven progress. Tech insiders cheer on his cheerleading. The rest of the world is more skeptical. A recent survey conducted by Reuters and Ipsos showed that 61 percent of Americans believe A.I. could be a threat to humanity.
Mr. Hoffman brushes off those fears as overblown. He expects that the more tangible problems facing A.I., including its tendency to spit out incorrect information, will be worked out as tech companies upgrade their systems and deploy them to help.
Looking ahead, he said, there will be more investments, more podcasts, more conversations with government officials and more work on Inflection AI. The way to navigate A.I.'s risks, he stressed, is by steering the world toward the positives.
"I'm a tech optimist, not a tech utopian," he said.
Cade Metz contributed reporting.
Cade Metz contributed reporting.
Photograph Reid Hoffman, top, is a member of the so-called "PayPal Mafia" of former PayPal executives, which includes Peter Thiel and Elon Musk, both shown above in a photo from 2000. Mustafa Suleyman, left, the co-founder and C.E.O. of Inflection AI, says Mr. Hoffman is motivated to do good in the world, unlike some other venture capitalists. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLARA MOKRI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Leadership; Startups; Public officials; Chatbots; Social networks; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Startups Social networks Venture capital

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: Google DeepMind; NAICS: 513210; Name: Y Combinator; NAICS: 523910; Name: LinkedIn Co rp; NAICS: 518210; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/25/technology/reid-hoffman-artificial-intelligence.html

Title: Entrepreneur Is on Mission To Show A.I. Can Do Good:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 29, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2819936229

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/entrepreneur-is-on-mission-show-i-can-do-good/docview/2819936229/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Thiel Is the Latest Billionaire Said to Have Met With a Disgraced Financier: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldstein, Matthew; Ryan, Mac

Publication info: Goldstein, Matthew; Ryan, Mac. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thiel-is-latest-billionaire-said-have-met-with/docview/2815126045/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Thiel apparently had several meetings with Mr. Epstein in 2014, according to records of the disgraced financier reviewed by The New York Times.
In 2014, the venture capitalist Peter Thiel was gaining prominence as one of Silicon Valley's most successful entrepreneurs and investors. He had made billions of dollars as a co-founder of PayPal and Palantir, where he was chairman; and he sat on the board of Facebook, where he was the company's first outside investor.
That made him an ideal contact for Jeffrey Epstein, the convicted sex offender with a knack for cultivating the rich and powerful.
Mr. Thiel apparently had several meetings with Mr. Epstein that year, according to scheduling records of the disgraced financier that were reviewed by The New York Times.
The records -- in the form of emails that Mr. Epstein's assistant sent to remind him of upcoming events -- show that in September 2014 Mr. Thiel was scheduled to meet with Mr. Epstein on at least three occasions, either in one-on-one meetings or with others over lunch or dinner. Two other times, Mr. Thiel was listed among more than a dozen other well-known people Mr. Epstein should try to see while at his New York mansion.
It's unclear from the records whether all the meetings with Mr. Thiel took place. Some were listed as tentative or "TBD" -- for "to be determined."
Jeremiah Hall, a spokesman for Mr. Thiel, declined to comment.
The Times obtained the records through a public records request to the attorney general for the U.S. Virgin Islands, which had sued Mr. Epstein's estate. (Mr. Epstein died in 2019 while awaiting trial on federal sex-trafficking charges.) The records suggest that Mr. Thiel may have had a closer relationship with Mr. Epstein than was previously known.
Even after his 2008 conviction in Florida on a charge of soliciting prostitution from a teenage girl, Mr. Epstein continued to hobnob with top finance executives and investors, scientists, professors, politicians and celebrities.
Mr. Epstein was fascinated with the technology industry, attending conferences with high-profile industry executives. In 2015, for example, the LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman invited him to a dinner attended by, among others, the Tesla chief executive, Elon Musk; the Facebook chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg; and Mr. Thiel. (The dinner was previously reported by Axios.)
The records reviewed by The Times, which begin in 2011, are not a comprehensive accounting of Mr. Epstein's meetings. They do not cover every day, and even full years are missing. (Some of the calendar entries were previously reported by The Wall Street Journal in connection with other individuals.)
On Sept. 14, 2014, Mr. Epstein was tentatively scheduled to have lunch with Mr. Thiel, the records show. The schedule then changed, with Mr. Thiel listed as having an appointment in the afternoon, followed by a potential dinner with Mr. Epstein, the director Woody Allen and others. Mr. Thiel was also expected to have lunch with the financier the next day and the following weekend, the records show.
It's unclear why Mr. Thiel was meeting with Mr. Epstein. At the time, Mr. Thiel sat on the board of Facebook and oversaw Founders Fund, a top venture capital firm. Mr. Thiel was also the chairman of Palantir, the C.I.A.-backed data analytics company, which at the time was seeking outside investments.
Two years later, Mr. Thiel was the most prominent Silicon Valley investor to back the successful presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump.
Mr. Thiel's name comes up in the calendar entries far less often than other names of famous people like the Wall Street financier Leon Black, who is listed as having come over frequently for breakfast and lunch.
Photograph It's unclear from the records whether all of the scheduled meetings between Peter Thiel, above, and Jeffrey Epstein in 2014 did indeed take place. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANDAN KHANN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Meetings

Location: Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

People: Epstein, Jeffrey

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/18/business/jeffrey-epstein-peter-thiel.html

Title: Thiel Is the Latest Billionaire Said to Have Met With a Disgraced Financier:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 19, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2815126045

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/thiel-is-latest-billionaire-said-have-met-with/docview/28151260 45/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Market Slips as Inflation Report Looms: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/market-slips-as-inflation-report-looms/docview/2811393712/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Wall Street dipped on Tuesday following some mixed earnings reports, as stocks remain roughly where they've been stuck for more than a month.
The S&P 500 fell 0.5 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 0.2 percent, while the Nasdaq composite fell 0.6 percent.
PayPal fell 12.7 percent despite reporting better profit and revenue than expected for the latest quarter. Analysts pointed to its forecast for how much profit it expects to wring out of each dollar of revenue, which may have disappointed some investors.
The electric automaker Lucid Group dropped 5.6 percent after reporting a worse loss than expected.
Skyworks Solutions sank 5.2 percent after reporting profit for the first three months of the year that matched forecasts. The company's comments about weakness in demand from China for Android phones may have frightened investors.
On the winning side of Wall Street was Palantir Technologies. It soared 23.4 percent after reporting a stronger profit than expected and saying demand for its new artificial intelligence platform "is without precedent."
So far this earnings reporting season, which is approaching its final stretch, the majority of companies have been topping forecasts for first-quarter results. That's largely because expectations were set quite low because of a slowing economy and high interest rates. Companies in the S&P 500 are still on track to report a second straight quarter of weaker profits from year-earlier levels.
"Companies have been able to do pretty well," said Margie Patel, senior portfolio manager at Allspring Global Investments.
The better-than-feared results have given some support to Wall Street even as many other worries are weighing on it.
Key among them is what will happen to the banking system, which is under stress following three high-profile bank failures since March. Hurt by much higher interest rates, smaller and midsize banks are scrambling to reassure everyone that their deposits are stable and that they aren't at risk of a sudden exodus of customers.
Stocks of regional banks under the heaviest scrutiny by Wall Street were shaky on Tuesday. PacWest Bancorp rose 2.3 percent after coming back from an earlier loss. Western Alliance Bancorp dropped 1.4 percent after swinging between losses and gains.
The next big milestone for the market will be Wednesday's report on inflation at the consumer level. Inflation has come down from its peak last summer, but it's remaining stubbornly high. That's raised uncertainty about what the Federal Reserve's next move will be.
The central bank has already yanked its benchmark interest rates to a range of 5 percent to 5.25 percent, up from virtually zero early last year. High rates can undercut inflation, but only by smothering the economy and hurting investment prices bluntly.
Many investors are preparing for a recession to hit later this year because of much higher rates, as well as the potential for banks to pull back on lending because of the industry's troubles. Even though the job market has remained resilient and the unemployment rate is remarkably low, other areas of the economy have shown more weakness like manufacturing.
"It seems that although they have more data and information than anybody, the Fed seems myopically focused on the inflation rate and unemployment rate rather than looking at the big picture," Ms. Patel said. "What does the person on the street see? I think they see a lot more things to be concerned about than the Fed."
Also looming over the market is a June 1 deadline. That's when the government could potentially run out of cash to pay its bills unless Congress allows it to borrow more. The widespread expectations is for Congress to come to a deal before that deadline.
Credit: By The Associated Press
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Dow Jones averages; Inflation; Interest rates; Unemployment; Regional banks; Economic conditions; Profits

Business indexing term: Subject: Inflation Interest rates Unemployment Regional banks Economic conditions Profits

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/09/business/10markets.html

Title: Market Slips as Inflation Report Looms:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 10, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2811393712

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/market-slips-as-inflation-report-looms/docview/2811393712/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

When DeSantis Took On the Mouse, It Roared: [National Desk]

Author: Homans, Charles

Publication info: Homans, Charles. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-desantis-took-on-mouse-roared/docview/2806330609/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida went to war against Disney over what he labels its "woke" corporate sensibility and its criticism of state policies, Tim Wildmon was cheering from the sidelines.
Mr. Wildmon, the president of the American Family Association, a right-wing religious organization, has more experience in this area than most: In 1995, his organization, which is known for its opposition to L.G.B.T.Q. rights, rallied a broad coalition of evangelical groups to boycott Disney after it extended family benefits to gay employees.
But since then, Mr. Wildmon has learned to temper his expectations. After an early wave of international media attention, the boycott receded from the headlines, and by the time Mr. Wildmon officially pulled the plug on it a decade later, it had had little discernible impact on Disney's policies or revenues.
"It was very difficult to sustain for more than three or four years," he said. "People move on. They lose interest. Things change."
And some things stay the same. Almost 20 years later, Mr. DeSantis is trying to turn Americans against The Walt Disney Company, one of the most formidable superpowers of American popular culture and commerce. He has also joined the pile-on of another corporate-cultural behemoth, Anheuser-Busch InBev, which incurred a wave of outrage on the right this month over a Bud Light marketing campaign promoting a transgender influencer.
"I'd rather be governed by we the people rather than woke companies, so I believe pushback is in order across the board," the governor said in a recent interview with Benny Johnson, a right-wing media personality.
Coming as he prepares to run for president, Mr. DeSantis's moves are testing whether changes in Republican politics and in boardrooms have rewritten the rules for anti-corporate campaigns. American businesses are increasingly engaging in social debates, responding to consumer and employee demand. In the Republican Party, meanwhile, the party's Trump-era populist rhetorical turn and hardening position on gender politics have combined to make corporate America an appealing battlefield for culture warriors.
But taking on Mickey Mouse remains a tricky business. As Mr. Wildmon and others can attest, brands of the scale and cultural footprint of Disney have emerged from past boycotts without much of a scratch. And corporations that might have been leery of such fights a generation ago are now more likely to see them as inevitable, and in some cases even a source of market advantage.
In Florida, Disney has proved a wily political foil for Mr. DeSantis. After the company criticized a Republican bill in the State Legislature limiting schools' instruction on gender and sexuality last year, Mr. DeSantis tried to strip Disney of the unusual self-governance arrangement it has enjoyed for decades in the state. But his administration appeared to be outmaneuvered when Disney's representatives found a workaround.
This month, the governor escalated the dispute by threatening a list of possible punishments. On Wednesday, after a board voted to void agreements that give the company control over expansion at its resort complex, Disney sued in federal court, claiming "a targeted campaign of government retaliation."
Bryan Griffin, Mr. DeSantis's press secretary, has described the company's moves as "an attempt to subvert the will of the people of Florida." Disney, one of the largest employers in the state, has repeatedly described its actions as compliant with state law. Its chief executive, Robert A. Iger, has criticized Mr. DeSantis's actions as "anti-business" and "anti-Florida."
Polls suggest Mr. DeSantis's political success in the debate may hinge on whether he's viewed as a populist reining in big business or a culture warrior. A Harvard-Harris poll this month found a majority of registered voters nationwide -- and a vast majority of Republicans -- siding with Mr. DeSantis in the showdown. The survey described Mr. DeSantis as attempting "to limit Disney's autonomy" and remove "special tax status."
But another poll, this one conducted this week by Reuters/Ipsos, found less than half of Republicans had a more favorable view of the governor because of his fight with Disney. And majorities of Democrats and Republicans said they were less likely to support a candidate who supported laws intended to punish companies for their positions on cultural issues.
The episode has been viewed as a weakness by his prospective rivals in the 2024 presidential primary field, in which polls show Mr. DeSantis has slipped. On his Truth Social platform, Donald J. Trump mocked Mr. DeSantis for being "absolutely destroyed by Disney."
Chris Christie, the former governor of New Jersey, questioned whether Mr. DeSantis's heavy-handed use of state power against the company undermined his claims of conservatism.
"Where are we headed here now that, if you express disagreement in this country, the government is now going to punish you?" Mr. Christie said at an event last week.
In the campaign against Anheuser-Busch, a more conventional boycott without the political complications of government intervention, the backlash has had a clearer impact. In recent days, amid reports of tumbling sales, the company announced that the marketing executives responsible for the promotional partnership with the influencer, Dylan Mulvaney, were on leave.
Other companies that have incurred the anger of consumers on the right and left, however, have generally found the ire to be short-lived. Nike was vilified by President Trump and others over its 2018 promotional campaign featuring the former N.F.L. quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who had faced outrage on the right for kneeling during the national anthem in protest of police shootings of unarmed Black people. Nike's stock fell 3 percent after the company released its first Kaepernick ad, but within weeks it had rebounded to a record high.
Nike's campaign was a signal moment in the shifting politics of corporate America, which has long made common cause with the Republican Party on issues like taxes and regulation but has been drawn into increasingly regular conflict with the party over social issues.
In part this is because corporations have become more socially liberal in their own policies, reflecting broader trends in public opinion on many issues. When the Human Rights Campaign, a prominent L.G.B.T.Q.-rights organization, published its first Corporate Equality Index in 2002, only 13 companies received the top score for L.G.B.T.Q.-friendliness. In 2022, 842 companies did.
"I think it's something that's important to their employees, to their customers and to their investors," said Eric Bloem, the organization's senior director for programs and corporate advocacy. "It's all interrelated."
In the 2010s, when newly Republican-controlled state legislatures began aggressively pursuing legislation targeting L.G.B.T.Q. rights, corporations' new social politics came into direct conflict with their old Chamber of Commerce allegiances, and often outweighed them. Companies like PayPal, Deutsche Bank, Disney and Walmart canceled expansion plans, threatened boycotts and lobbied political leaders in several states over the new laws.
The business community's shift accelerated after the police murder of George Floyd in 2020, which sent corporations as varied as Citigroup and McDonald's scrambling to signal their solidarity with the emerging wave of racial justice protests.
Brands that have performed outreach to right-leaning Americans have been an exception rather than the rule, and they have been mostly smaller enterprises. But for Republican politicians like Mr. DeSantis, the party base's discontent with the new corporate value-signaling has proved an opportunity. Last year, the communications firm Edelman found in its annual Trust Barometer survey that for the first time, a majority of Republican respondents -- and more Republicans than Democrats -- said they did not trust business.
"The Republican Party was all about promoting the virtues of capitalism," said Vivek Ramaswamy, an entrepreneur and Republican presidential candidate who has centered a criticism of corporate America's social liberalism in his campaign.
As recently as a few years ago, he said, campaigning against big business was an awkward fit for the party. Now, he said, "we can understand what's happened a little better."
Photograph In the past, boycotts of major brands like Disney have proved ephemeral and largely ineffective. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAWREN SIMMONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Gov. Ron DeSantis tried to strip Disney of the unusual self-governance arrangement it has enjoyed for decades in the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN RAYFORD/GETTY IMAGES) (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A15.

Subject: Culture; Governors; Presidential elections; Employees; Populism; Boycotts; Political parties; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Breweries

Location: Florida; United States--US

People: DeSantis, Ron

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/26/us/politics/desantis-disney-republicans.html

Title: When DeSantis Took On the Mouse, It Roared:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 27, 2023

column: Political Memo

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2806330609

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/when-desantis-took-on-mouse-roared/docview/2806330609/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Man vs. Mouse: Ron DeSantis Finds Taking On Disney Is a Dicey Business

Author: Homans, Charles

Publication info: Homans, Charles. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-vs-mouse-ron-desantis-finds-taking-on-disney/docview/2806250573/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
When Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida went to war against The Walt Disney Co. over what he labels its “woke” corporate sensibility and its criticism of state policies, Tim Wildmon was cheering from the sidelines.
Wildmon, the president of the American Family Association, a right-wing religious organization, has more experience in this area than most: In 1995, his organization, which is known for its opposition to LGBTQ rights, rallied a broad coalition of evangelical groups to boycott Disney after it extended family benefits to gay employees.
But since then, Wildmon has learned to temper his expectations. After an early wave of international media attention, the boycott receded from the headlines, and by the time Wildmon officially pulled the plug on it a decade later, it had had little discernible impact on Disney’s policies or revenues.
“It was very difficult to sustain for more than three or four years,” he said. “People move on. They lose interest. Things change.”
And some things stay the same. Almost 20 years later, DeSantis is trying to turn Americans against Disney, one of the most formidable superpowers of American popular culture and commerce. He has also joined the pile-on of another corporate-cultural behemoth, Anheuser-Busch InBev, which incurred a wave of outrage on the right this month over a Bud Light marketing campaign promoting a transgender influencer.
“I’d rather be governed by we the people rather than woke companies, so I believe pushback is in order across the board,” the governor said in a recent interview with Benny Johnson, a right-wing media personality.
Coming as he prepares to run for president, DeSantis’ moves are testing whether changes in Republican politics and in boardrooms have rewritten the rules for anti-corporate campaigns. U.S. businesses are increasingly engaging in social debates, responding to consumer and employee demand. In the Republican Party, meanwhile, the party’s Trump-era populist rhetorical turn and hardening position on gender politics have combined to make corporate America an appealing battlefield for culture warriors.
But taking on Mickey Mouse remains a tricky business. As Wildmon and others can attest, brands of the scale and cultural footprint of Disney have emerged from past boycotts without much of a scratch. And corporations that might have been leery of such fights a generation ago are now more likely to see them as inevitable — and in some cases even a source of market advantage.
In Florida, Disney has proved a wily political foil for DeSantis. After the company criticized a Republican bill in the state Legislature limiting schools’ instruction on gender and sexuality last year, DeSantis tried to strip Disney of the unusual self-governance arrangement it has enjoyed for decades in the state. But his administration appeared to be outmaneuvered when Disney’s representatives found a workaround.
This month, the governor escalated the dispute by threatening a list of possible punishments. On Wednesday, after a board voted to void agreements that give the company control over expansion at its resort complex, Disney sued in federal court, claiming “a targeted campaign of government retaliation.”
Bryan Griffin, DeSantis’ press secretary, has described the company’s moves as “an attempt to subvert the will of the people of Florida.” Disney, one of the largest employers in the state, has repeatedly described its actions as compliant with state law. Its CEO, Robert Iger, has criticized DeSantis’ actions as “anti-business” and “anti-Florida.”
Polls suggest DeSantis’ political success in the debate may hinge on whether he’s viewed as a populist reining in big business or a culture warrior. A Harvard-Harris poll this month found a majority of registered voters nationwide — and a vast majority of Republicans — siding with DeSantis in the showdown. The survey described DeSantis as attempting “to limit Disney’s autonomy” and remove “special tax status.”
But another poll, this one conducted this week by Reuters/Ipsos, found less than half of Republicans had a more favorable view of the governor because of his fight with Disney. And majorities of Democrats and Republicans said they were less likely to support a candidate who supported laws intended to punish companies for their positions on cultural issues.
The episode has been viewed as a weakness by his prospective rivals in the 2024 presidential primary field, in which polls show DeSantis has slipped. On his Truth Social platform, Donald Trump mocked DeSantis for being “absolutely destroyed by Disney.”
Chris Christie, the former governor of New Jersey, questioned whether DeSantis’ heavy-handed use of state power against the company undermined his claims of conservatism.
“Where are we headed here now that if you express disagreement in this country, the government is now going to punish you?” Christie said at an event last week.
In the campaign against Anheuser-Busch, a more conventional boycott without the political complications of government intervention, the backlash has had a clearer impact. In recent days, amid reports of tumbling sales, the company announced that the marketing executives responsible for the promotional partnership with the influencer, Dylan Mulvaney, were on leave.
Other companies that have incurred the anger of consumers on the right and left, however, have generally found the ire to be short-lived. Nike was vilified by Trump and others over its 2018 promotional campaign featuring former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who had faced outrage on the right for kneeling during the national anthem in protest of police shootings of unarmed Black people. Nike’s stock fell 3% after the company released its first Kaepernick ad, but within weeks, it had rebounded to a record high.
Nike’s campaign was a signal moment in the shifting politics of corporate America, which has long made common cause with the Republican Party on issues like taxes and regulation but has been drawn into increasingly regular conflict with the party over social issues.
In part, this is because corporations have become more socially liberal in their own policies, reflecting broader trends in public opinion on many issues. When the Human Rights Campaign, a prominent LGBTQ-rights organization, published its first Corporate Equality Index in 2002, only 13 companies received the top score for LGBTQ-friendliness. In 2022, 842 companies did.
“I think it’s something that’s important to their employees, to their customers and to their investors,” said Eric Bloem, the organization’s senior director for programs and corporate advocacy. “It’s all interrelated.”
In the 2010s, when newly Republican-controlled state legislatures began aggressively pursuing legislation targeting LGBTQ rights, corporations’ new social politics came into direct conflict with their old Chamber of Commerce allegiances and often outweighed them. Companies like PayPal, Deutsche Bank, Disney and Walmart canceled expansion plans, threatened boycotts and lobbied political leaders in several states over the new laws.
The business community’s shift accelerated after the police murder of George Floyd in 2020, which sent corporations as varied as Citigroup and McDonald’s scrambling to signal their solidarity with the emerging wave of racial justice protests.
Brands that have performed outreach to right-leaning Americans have been an exception rather than the rule, and they have been mostly smaller enterprises. But for Republican politicians like DeSantis, the party base’s discontent with the new corporate value-signaling has proved an opportunity. Last year, communications firm Edelman found in its annual Trust Barometer survey that for the first time, a majority of Republican respondents — and more Republicans than Democrats — said they did not trust business.
“The Republican Party was all about promoting the virtues of capitalism,” said Vivek Ramaswamy, an entrepreneur and Republican presidential candidate who has centered a criticism of corporate America’s social liberalism in his campaign.
As recently as a few years ago, he said, campaigning against big business was an awkward fit for the party. Now, he said, “we can understand what’s happened a little better.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Culture; LGBTQ rights; Employees; Boycotts; Political parties; Political campaigns; Governors; Presidential elections; Populism; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees Breweries

Location: New York; United States--US; Florida

People: DeSantis, Ron

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 42434 0; Name: Walt Disney World; NAICS: 524126, 713110

Identifier / keyword: Primaries And Caucuses; Florida; Christie, Christopher J; Iger, Robert A; Boards Of Directors; Presidential Election Of 2024; Executives And Management (Theory); Law And Legislation; Walmart Stores Inc; Shoes And Boots; Paypal; Ipsos Sa; American Family Assn; United States; Company Reports; Relocation Of Business; Corporations; Politics And Government; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Suits And Litigation (Civil); National Anthems; Lobbying And Lobbyists; United States Chamber Of Commerce; Deutsche Bank Ag; Nike Inc; Debates (Political); Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; National Football League; Boycotts; Citigroup Inc; United States Politics And Government; Ramaswamy, Vivek (1985 ); Advertising And Marketing; State Legislatures; New Jersey; Democratic Party; Truth Social (Social Network); Human Rights Campaign; Polls And Public Opinion; Corporate Social Responsibility; New York State; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Generation Z; Employee Fringe Benefits; Beer; Mcdonald's Corporation; States (Us); Walt Disney Company; Kaepernick, Colin; Labor And Jobs; Republican Party; Television; Trump, Donald J; Desantis, Ron; Two Thousand Tens (Decade); Mulvaney, Dylan (1996 ); United States National Anthem Protests (2016 ); Fringe Groups And Movements

Title: Man vs. Mouse: Ron DeSantis Finds Taking On Disney Is a Dicey Business

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 26, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-26T22:46:54Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2806250573

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/man-vs-mouse-ron-desantis-finds-taking-on-disney/docview/2806250573/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

LinkedIn Co-Founder Funds Suit Alleging Trump Rape: [National Desk]

Author: Weiser, Benjamin; Savage, Charlie

Publication info: Weiser, Benjamin; Savage, Charlie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/linkedin-co-founder-funds-suit-alleging-trump/docview/2800446851/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Reid Hoffman, a billionaire and critic of Donald J. Trump, is backing E. Jean Carroll's suit against the former president.
Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn and a harsh critic of former President Donald J. Trump, has helped pay for a lawsuit by E. Jean Carroll, the New York magazine writer who sued Mr. Trump for rape and defamation, according to newly filed court papers in the case.
Mr. Hoffman's support for Ms. Carroll's lawsuit, which was first disclosed in a letter to a judge on Thursday by Mr. Trump's lawyers, has sparked a sharp dispute in the case, which is scheduled for trial in federal court in Manhattan on April 25.
Mr. Trump's lawyers, writing to the judge, accused Ms. Carroll of concealing Mr. Hoffman's role, which they said they only learned of this week from her lawyers. They said the disclosure raised "significant questions" about Ms. Carroll's credibility and whether her allegations against Mr. Trump were, as he has claimed, a "hoax" brought "to advance a political agenda."
They asked for a one-month postponement so they could investigate the funding issue. The judge, Lewis A. Kaplan, on Thursday evening said he would allow Mr. Trump's lawyers the opportunity to conduct a narrow inquiry into the funding issue, but he declined to delay the case.
Ms. Carroll's lawyers in their own letter argued that the financial support was irrelevant to Ms. Carroll's legal claims and that she had nothing to do with obtaining the outside funding and no dealings with anyone associated with the nonprofit.
They noted that it was not until September 2020, almost a year after Ms. Carroll filed the first of what became two lawsuits against Mr. Trump, that their firm obtained the funding to help pay "certain costs and fees."
They said Mr. Trump's effort to delay the trial -- earlier this week he asked that it be delayed because of a "deluge of prejudicial media coverage" concerning his recent criminal indictment in New York -- was "his latest transparent effort to keep a jury from deciding Carroll's claims."
Mr. Hoffman is a billionaire tech entrepreneur known for cofounding LinkedIn, which went public in 2011 and sold to Microsoft for $ 26 billion in 2016. He has a long history of funding Democratic candidates and causes, including those specifically designed to counteract Mr. Trump's influence.
Dmitri Mehlhorn, a philanthropic adviser for Mr. Hoffman, said in a statement that since 2017 they have acted as "third-party funders who support people in obtaining their legal rights."
"Trump and his defenders keep trying to change the subject, because they don't want a neutral court of law to evaluate his behavior," Mr. Mehlhorn said.
He added that they had made an earlier grant through a nonprofit to support a different public interest lawsuit being handled by the firm Kaplan Hecker & Fink, which later took up Ms. Carroll's case. He said that later, in September 2020, Ms. Carroll's lawyer, Roberta A. Kaplan, asked if money from that grant could be used for Ms. Carroll's suit.
"We had no prior knowledge at the time of the original grant that our funding would go to support her case in particular," Mr. Mehlhorn said.
Mr. Mehlhorn declined to specify the size of the original grant.
Mr. Hoffman is part of the so-called PayPal Mafia, a network of well-connected tech executives and investors who got their start at the payments company in the late 1990s. That crew includes the tech mogul Peter Thiel, who is a prominent Republican donor and has secretly funded lawsuits. In 2016 Mr. Thiel paid $ 10 million for the wrestler Hulk Hogan to sue the media outlet Gawker Media for an invasion of privacy, ultimately leading to Gawker's bankruptcy.
In New York and elsewhere, there is a well-established financial industry in which outsiders invest in lawsuits, whether involving car accidents, contract claims or mere slip-and-fall cases, said Anthony Sebok, a professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and expert on litigation finance and legal ethics.
Professor Sebok added that there was nothing wrong, legally or ethically, with an outsider who has no connection to a plaintiff providing funding to a lawsuit after it is filed, "either to make money or just because they have a rooting interest in the outcome."
The clash over Mr. Hoffman's role is just the latest twist in litigation stemming from the allegation by Ms. Carroll, a former Elle magazine columnist. In a 2019 book and excerpt in New York magazine, she accused Mr. Trump of pushing her against a dressing room wall in the luxury department store Bergdorf Goodman in Manhattan in the mid-1990s, saying he then pulled down her tights, opened his pants and forced himself upon her.
Mr. Trump denied her accusation, saying he had never met Ms. Carroll, that she was "totally lying" and that he could not have raped her because she was not his "type."
Ms. Carroll, saying Mr. Trump's comments had damaged her reputation, sued him in 2019 for defamation. She sued him again last year -- this time accusing him of rape -- under a new state law in New York that grants adults a one-time window to sue those who they say abused them even if the statute of limitations has long expired.
It is that lawsuit that is scheduled for trial this month.
The original defamation case has been tangled in appeals. On Thursday, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals -- a local court akin to a state's supreme court -- issued a 41-page ruling that declined to decide whether Mr. Trump was acting in his capacity as president when he made the disparaging comments.
The ruling was a partial victory for Ms. Carroll because the defamation lawsuit will continue, and because the D.C. court laid out for New York judges a detailed explanation about when an employer can be held liable for the actions of an employee -- an explanation that appears favorable to Ms. Carroll.
After Ms. Carroll sued Mr. Trump for defamation, the Justice Department intervened under a law that substitutes the government as the defendant when federal officials are sued for official acts -- meaning a case must be dismissed. That raised the question of whether Mr. Trump was acting as president when he talked about Ms. Carroll.
In October 2020, Judge Kaplan rejected the Justice Department's attempt to substitute the government as the defendant, ruling that Mr. Trump's comments had "no relationship to the official business of the United States." But a higher court asked the D.C. Court of Appeals to decide whether Mr. Trump was acting as a private person or as an employee of the federal government.
Had the D.C. court ruled in favor of Mr. Trump, that would have effectively brought an end to the defamation case. But it balked, saying there were not yet enough facts in the record to make that determination.
Erin Griffith contributed reporting.
Erin Griffith contributed reporting.
Photograph Reid Hoffman in 2019. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY HARRIS/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A18.

Subject: Indictments; Presidents; Law; Attorneys; Grants; Defamation; Funding; Trials

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Carroll, E Jean; Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: LinkedIn Corp; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/13/nyregion/trump-carroll-lawsuit-hoffman-linkedin.html

Title: LinkedIn Co-Founder Funds Suit Alleging Trump Rape:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.18

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 14, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2800446851

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/linkedin-co-founder-funds-suit-alleging-trump/docview/2800446851/s e-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pawn in Iran Kidnap Plot Is Sentenced to Four Years: [National Desk]

Author: Moynihan, Colin

Publication info: Moynihan, Colin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pawn-iran-kidnap-plot-is-sentenced-four-years/docview/2797488917/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Niloufar Bahadorifar apologized after transferring money to help in a plan against the journalist Masih Alinehad, calling her "a hero to all Iranians."
In the summer of 2020, Niloufar Bahadorifar, an expatriate Iranian in California, received a message from someone in her home country asking her to send money to the PayPal account of a person in Manhattan. Ms. Bahadorifar passed along $ 670 and forwarded proof of the transaction to Iran.
The payment may have seemed unremarkable, but federal prosecutors have said it was part of an audacious plot to kidnap an Iranian-born journalist who fled the authoritarian government in Tehran in 2009 and had been living in New York City.
Iranian operatives employed private investigators in the United States who were unaware of the plan but spied on the journalist, Masih Alinejad, even setting up a live, high-definition video feed of her home, the prosecutors said.
Ms. Bahadorifar's payment went to one of those investigators. She was not accused of taking part in the kidnapping conspiracy, but pleaded guilty last year to a charge of conspiracy to violate U.S. economic sanctions on Iran by helping channel money to the investigator.
On Friday, a federal judge in Manhattan sentenced Ms. Bahadorifar to four years in prison.
Ms. Alinejad, appearing in court, said that being targeted by the Iranian government would not deter her activism but acknowledged that it had taken a toll. She had experienced nightmares, she said, and had been living in safe houses after being forced to move out of her home of 10 years.
"I no longer feel safe in America," she told Judge Ronnie Abrams of Federal District Court in Manhattan, adding: "I miss my tree-lined streets in my corner of Brooklyn, and I miss my neighbors."
Minutes later, Ms. Bahadorifar tearfully apologized for her crime, at one point addressing Ms. Alinejad, who was seated in the gallery.
"I am humiliated to have been involved in any attempt to harm you, even if I was unaware of it," she said. "You are a hero to all Iranians."
Her punishment may be the only one to result from an indictment that was unsealed in 2021 and detailed the plot. The other defendants -- an Iranian intelligence official, Alireza Shavaroghi Farahani, and three operatives, Mahmoud Khazein, Kiya Sadeghi and Omid Noori -- all live in Iran.
Even if those four men never stand trial, federal officials have said that indicting them helps deter similar plots and protects American citizens like Ms. Alinejad.
The indictment provides a glimpse into a byzantine plan that included the use of a real estate listing service to research Ms. Alinejad's neighborhood in Brooklyn, the potential use of speedboats to spirit her away from New York City and an ocean voyage to Latin America.
Ms. Bahadorifar's lawyers emphasized in a letter to the court that she had no knowledge of the kidnapping plot and suggested that she had helped the Iranian operatives because she was intimidated. Ms. Bahadorifar, they added, had been arrested in Iran when she was 10 years old, and her sister and niece, who still live there, had been threatened by the regime. They said a longtime family friend had bamboozled Ms. Bahadorifar into making the PayPal transaction.
"She was unwittingly duped and manipulated into becoming part of an evil plot to silence a journalist from her former country," the lawyers, Jeffrey Lichtman and Jeffrey Einhorn, wrote.
The publicly available version of the letter was heavily redacted and did not include the friend's name.
In their own letter to the court, prosecutors said that Ms. Bahadorifar had sent Mr. Noori a screenshot of the payment confirmation with the note: "Requested from Mr. M. Khazein."
"She knew she was assisting Khazein, who she understood was connected to Iranian intelligence, and his associates, even if she was not specifically aware of their ultimate goals," prosecutors wrote.
Sanctions imposed by the United States in response to Iran's support of international terrorism and its efforts to obtain weapons of mass destruction forbid the supply of American banking and financial services to Iran without a special Treasury Department license.
Around 2014, prosecutors wrote, Ms. Bahadorifar started receiving regular payments from Iran provided by Mr. Khazein, a businessman and member of a volunteer auxiliary division of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. She maintained bank accounts and made payments at his request, helping him import commodities to Iran and adding him as an account holder on credit cards, they said.
Over about nine months in July 2020, according to prosecutors, Ms. Bahadorifar made more than 100 bank deposits of cash totaling $ 476,100, almost all structured to avoid being reported to the U.S. government.
The Iranian government appears to have been displeased for some time with Ms. Alinejad, who has written about the discriminatory treatment of women in Iran and the use of imprisonment, torture and execution against the regime's opponents.
Ms. Alinejad wrote in 2018 that while living in Iran she had often been threatened for writing articles critical of former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. In 2020, she wrote that Iranian officials had begun a social media campaign calling for her abduction.
Around 2018, prosecutors said, Iranian officials tried unsuccessfully to get relatives of Ms. Alinejad in Iran to invite her to travel to another country, apparently for the purpose of arresting her. The next year, they added, one of Ms. Alinejad's relatives in Iran was arrested on charges "purportedly based" on an association with her.
According to an indictment, Iranian operatives plotting to kidnap Ms. Alinejad researched routes from her home to a waterfront neighborhood in Brooklyn, a service offering "military-style speedboats" and travel by water from New York to Venezuela, a country whose government has friendly relations with Iran.
The Iranian operatives also hired investigators to spy on Ms. Alinejad, her family and her associates, the indictment said. One of them, Michael McKeever, was asked to help in tracking down a debtor who had fled Dubai; Mr. McKeever had no idea he was working on behalf of the Iranian government.
While watching Ms. Alinejad, Mr. McKeever said, he was warned by an F.B.I. agent that his clients had nefarious motives. After that, Mr. McKeever added, he cooperated with the federal authorities, an account that was confirmed by the F.B.I.
The charges against Ms. Bahadorifar and her co-defendants did not end the danger faced by Ms. Alinejad. Last summer, a man with a loaded AK-47-style assault rifle was arrested near her home after law enforcement officers said he spent several hours there and tried to look in through windows.
That man, Khalid Mehdiyev, and two others, all said to be part of an Eastern European criminal syndicate known as Thieves-in-Law, were charged this year with plotting to murder Ms. Alinejad. Federal officials have said the group has ties to Iran.
Photograph Niloufar Bahadorifar, far left, was misled by a family friend when she transferred money in what ultimately turned out to be a plot to kidnap the journalist Masih Alinejad, near left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFFERSON SIEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; STEPHANIE LECOCQ/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page A16.

Subject: Indictments; Journalists; Conspiracy; Kidnapping; Alliances; Public prosecutors

Location: Iran; New York City New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/07/nyregion/iran-kidnapping-plot-sentencing.html

Title: Pawn in Iran Kidnap Plot Is Sentenced to Four Years:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.16

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 8, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2797488917

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pawn-iran-kidnap-plot-is-sentenced-four-years/docview/2797488917/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Big Tech Camouflaged Wall Street's Crisis: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Rennison, Joe; Murray, Eli

Publication info: Rennison, Joe; Murray, Eli. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-big-tech-camouflaged-wall-streets-crisis/docview/2793301353/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The fate of the S&P 500 index -- used by investors as a barometer for the health of corporate America, and cited by presidents as a measure of their handling of the economy -- often comes down to just two companies: Apple and Microsoft.
This means it's hard to invest in the U.S. stock market, such as through a 401(k) or pension plan, and not be highly dependent on the fate of the two tech giants. More than $ 15 trillion in assets, from pension funds and endowments to insurance companies, are linked to the performance of the S&P 500 index in some way, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices, with more than 10 cents of every dollar allocated to the broad index flowing through to Microsoft's and Apple's market valuation.
It is a phenomenon explained by how the benchmark is constructed, and it is amplified by the way tech has come to dwarf other industries, in the markets and the economy. And it means that the two companies together can sway the direction of the broad market, sometimes masking turmoil that has taken place underneath.
Trading in March offers a clear example. Even after the failures of two regional banks in the United States and the rescue of a global investment bank in Europe sent a jolt through the financial system and raised new fears about an already fragile global economy, the S&P 500 ended the month up 3.5 percent.
Apple and Microsoft accounted for about half of that gain, according to data from S&P. Both were seemingly immune to the banking crisis and boosted by fervor over artificial intelligence, with Apple rising 11.4 percent during the month and Microsoft 15.6 percent.
It can be jarring for investors to see the index perform so differently from what they may have predicted, said Fiona Cincotta, a stock market analyst at StoneX, a brokerage.
"It's phenomenal that two companies can direct so much power within the S&P 500," she said. "These two companies seem to have been single-handedly directing the index."
It was true even at the height of the frenzy. On Monday, March 13, immediately after the government seized Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, signs of panic were everywhere: Several regional banks suffered their worst day ever in the stock market, with First Republic Bank down more than 60 percent, in conditions so chaotic that trading in many individual stocks was halted as stock exchanges tried to limit the damage.
Outside the stock market, government bond yields went haywire, oil prices slid and the dollar weakened, all showing that alarms about the economy were ringing on trading desks around the world.
Yet the S&P 500 spent much of the day in positive territory, and it ended with a barely noticeable decline of 0.1 percent. Credit, again, goes to Microsoft and Apple, which both rose enough to counter a 15 percent slide in the entire regional banking sector that day.
Much of this comes down to how the S&P 500 is designed. Its value is calculated by a measure that considers the overall market capitalization of a company. It means the stock moves of the largest companies carry the greatest weight, because even slight changes in their value create or destroy billions of dollars of shareholder value.
Apple, at roughly $ 2.4 trillion, and Microsoft, at $ 2.1 trillion, are so large that, taken together, the two companies would be the third-largest sector of the index, behind tech and health care. They would be larger than the energy sector and roughly the size of the financials sector.
This influence is a result of a decades-long shift in both the markets and the economy since the dot-com boom, a change that accelerated after the 2008 financial crisis. Low interest rates put in place to support the economy after the Great Recession made borrowing cheap and pushed investors to seek out higher returns from riskier companies, spurring financing and growth for tech companies. Apple and Microsoft excelled.
Apple in 2018 became the first American company valued at more than $ 1 trillion on the stock market. As its value inflated, so did that of its rivals Facebook (now Meta), Amazon, Netflix, and Google (now Alphabet) -- a group that came to be called the FANG stocks. They helped to lift the index to new highs over a more than decade-long bull market. Since then, Apple and Microsoft have become proportionally much larger, more than twice the size of the next largest company.
This dynamic is not wholly unusual in the history of the S&P 500, though it is extreme, and it has been exacerbated by the rapid growth of some tech companies through the pandemic. (At the end of 2018, Microsoft's and Apple's combined index weight was less than Apple's is today on its own.) The previous company to reach Microsoft's 6.2 percent weight in the index was IBM in the mid-80s, based on data for the end of each calendar year.
"I don't think it's a problem," said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices. "This is what the whole thing is worth, and if Apple or Microsoft go up or down, there is proportional impact because they are worth more. It's market-driven."
The S&P also produces an "equal weight" index, where each stock has the same effect on the wider group. In March, that index fell 2.6 percent.
Another commonly cited measure of Wall Street's performance, the Dow Jones industrial average is a price-weighted index that has been criticized for how it emphasizes companies based on their share price alone.
And then there are the underlying sectors, which are also tracked in separate indexes by S&P. These indexes, which tend to more directly show pain afflicting their subsets of stocks, show that the financial sector fell almost 10 percent in March, while energy stocks dropped 0.5 percent and real estate companies slid 2.1 percent. They also show that other parts of the market -- like utilities -- fared just fine.
"There were so many sectors that underperformed and were in the red across the month, and that was completely pushed over and overshadowed by the gains in big tech," Ms. Cincotta said.
S&P Dow Jones Indices, which maintains the S&P 500 as well as the Dow, has tried to address the impact of these specific weightings, at least on different sectors. In 2018, it moved Alphabet and Meta out of the tech sector and into the communications category with Netflix, while leaving Amazon in the consumer discretionary category with other retailers.
Since then, Meta, Amazon and Alphabet have slowly lost value, while Apple and Microsoft have grown. The technology sector in the S&P 500 has also been bolstered by the emergence of new behemoths like the chip maker Nvidia, which is valued around three quarters of a trillion dollars.
This month, S&P sought to rebalance the index again, moving a handful of large tech-oriented companies -- like Visa and PayPal -- into the financials sector, but further entrenching Apple and Microsoft's dominance as the two tech heavyweights.
Of course, this cuts both ways. In 2022, the S&P 500 slumped close to 20 percent, a drop that would have been much smaller without the lousy performance of the tech sector. Apple and Microsoft together accounted for roughly one-fifth of the index's total decline last year.
But for now, analysts see reasons for tech to continue to rally.
One reason is the excitement over artificial intelligence. Microsoft has a large stake in OpenAI, the creator of ChatGPT, and many investors foresee the nascent technology driving the next phase of growth for the companies developing the software as well as the chip makers whose processors power it.
Tech stocks are also benefiting from the concern over the country's banks, which has led investors to quickly cut back their expectation for interest rate increases from the Federal Reserve. The sector is particularly sensitive to interest rates, and absent an imminent recession, lower rates in the future would be a boost for the sector.
And, analysts said, large technology companies have become havens where investors can wait out the current storm.
"It's been a big bull cycle for tech," said George Catrambone, the head of Americas trading at DWS, a fund manager. "I don't think people will give up that paradigm easily."
This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Dow Jones averages; Stock exchanges; Interest rates; Regional banks

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock exchanges Interest rates Regional banks

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/31/business/tech-stocks-sp-500.html

Title: How Big Tech Camouflaged Wall Street's Crisis:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 1, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793301353

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-big-tech-camouflaged-wall-streets-crisis/docview/2793301353/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Big Tech Camouflaged Wall Street’s Crisis

Author: Rennison, Joe

Publication info: Rennison, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-big-tech-camouflaged-wall-street-s-crisis/docview/2793239679/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The fate of the S&P 500 index — used by investors as a barometer for the health of corporate America, and cited by presidents as a measure of their handling of the economy — often comes down to just two companies: Apple and Microsoft.
This means it’s hard to invest in the U.S. stock market, such as through a 401(k) or pension plan, and not be highly dependent on the fate of the two tech giants. More than $15 trillion in assets, from pension funds and endowments to insurance companies, are linked to the performance of the S&P 500 index in some way, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices, with more than 10 cents of every dollar allocated to the broad index flowing through to Microsoft’s and Apple’s market valuation.
It is a phenomenon explained by how the benchmark is constructed, and it is amplified by the way tech has come to dwarf other industries, in the markets and the economy. And it means that the two companies together can sway the direction of the broad market, sometimes masking turmoil that has taken place underneath.
Trading in March offers a clear example. Even after the failures of two regional banks in the United States and the rescue of a global investment bank in Europe sent a jolt through the financial system and raised new fears about an already fragile global economy, the S&P 500 ended the month up 3.5%.
Apple and Microsoft accounted for more than half of that gain, according to data from S&P. Both were seemingly immune to the banking crisis and boosted by fervor over artificial intelligence, with Apple rising 11.4% during the month and Microsoft 15.6%.
It can be jarring for investors to see the index perform so differently from what they may have predicted, said Fiona Cincotta, a stock market analyst at StoneX, a brokerage.
“It’s phenomenal that two companies can direct so much power within the S&P 500,” she said. “These two companies seem to have been single-handedly directing the index.”
It was true even at the height of the frenzy. On Monday, March 13, immediately after the government seized Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, signs of panic were everywhere: Several regional banks suffered their worst day ever in the stock market, with First Republic Bank down more than 60%, in conditions so chaotic that trading in many individual stocks was halted as stock exchanges tried to limit the damage.
Outside the stock market, government bond yields went haywire, oil prices slid and the dollar weakened, all showing that alarms about the economy were ringing on trading desks around the world.
Yet the S&P 500 spent much of the day in positive territory, and it ended with a barely noticeable decline of 0.1%. Credit, again, goes to Microsoft and Apple, which both rose enough to counter a 15% slide in the entire regional banking sector that day.
Much of this comes down to how the S&P 500 is designed. Its value is calculated by a measure that considers the overall market capitalization of a company. It means the stock moves of the largest companies carry the greatest weight, because even slight changes in their value create or destroy billions of dollars of shareholder value.
Apple, at roughly $2.4 trillion, and Microsoft, at $2.1 trillion, are so large that, taken together, the two companies would be the third-largest sector of the index, behind tech and health care. They would be larger than the energy sector and roughly the size of the financials sector.
This influence is a result of a decadeslong shift in both the markets and the economy since the dot-com boom, a change that accelerated after the 2008 financial crisis. Low interest rates put in place to support the economy after the Great Recession made borrowing cheap and pushed investors to seek out higher returns from riskier companies, spurring financing and growth for tech companies. Apple and Microsoft excelled.
Apple in 2018 became the first American company valued at more than $1 trillion on the stock market. As its value inflated, so did that of its rivals Facebook (now Meta), Amazon, Netflix, and Google (now Alphabet) — a group that came to be called the FANG stocks. They helped to lift the index to new highs over a more than decadelong bull market. Since then, Apple and Microsoft have become proportionally much larger, more than twice the size of the next largest company.
This dynamic is not wholly unusual in the history of the S&P 500, though it is extreme, and it has been exacerbated by the rapid growth of some tech companies through the pandemic. (At the end of 2018, Microsoft’s and Apple’s combined index weight was less than Apple’s is today on its own.) The previous company to reach Microsoft’s 6.2% weight in the index was IBM in the mid-80s, based on data for the end of each calendar year.
“I don’t think it’s a problem,” said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices. “This is what the whole thing is worth, and if Apple or Microsoft go up or down, there is proportional impact because they are worth more. It’s market-driven.”
The S&P also produces an “equal weight” index, where each stock has the same effect on the wider group. In March, that index is down 3%.
Another commonly cited measure of Wall Street’s performance, the Dow Jones industrial average is a price-weighted index that has been criticized for how it emphasizes companies based on their share price alone.
And then there are the underlying sectors, which are also tracked in separate indexes by S&P. These indexes, which tend to more directly show pain afflicting their subsets of stocks, show that the financial sector fell almost 10% in March, while energy stocks dropped 0.5% and real estate companies slid 2.1%. They also show that other parts of the market — like utilities — fared just fine.
“There were so many sectors that underperformed and were in the red across the month, and that was completely pushed over and overshadowed by the gains in big tech,” Cincotta said.
S&P Dow Jones Indices, which maintains the S&P 500 as well as the Dow, has tried to address the impact of these specific weightings, at least on different sectors. In 2018, it moved Alphabet and Meta out of the tech sector and into the communications category with Netflix, while leaving Amazon in the consumer discretionary category with other retailers.
Since then, Meta, Amazon and Alphabet have slowly lost value, while Apple and Microsoft have grown. The technology sector in the S&P 500 has also been bolstered by the emergence of new behemoths like the chip maker Nvidia, which is valued around three quarters of a trillion dollars.
This month, S&P sought to rebalance the index again, moving a handful of large tech-oriented companies — like Visa and PayPal — into the financials sector, but further entrenching Apple and Microsoft’s dominance as the two tech heavyweights.
Of course, this cuts both ways. In 2022, the S&P 500 slumped close to 20%, a drop that would have been much smaller without the lousy performance of the tech sector. Apple and Microsoft together accounted for roughly one-fifth of the index’s total decline last year.
For now, analysts see reasons for tech to continue to rally.
One reason is the excitement over artificial intelligence. Microsoft has a large stake in OpenAI, the creator of ChatGPT, and many investors foresee the nascent technology driving the next phase of growth for the companies developing the software as well as the chip makers whose processors power it.
Tech stocks are also benefiting from the concern over the country’s banks, which has led investors to quickly cut back their expectation for interest rate increases from the Federal Reserve. The sector is particularly sensitive to interest rates, and absent an imminent recession, lower rates in the future would be a boost for the sector.
And, analysts said, large technology companies have become havens where investors can wait out the current storm.
“It’s been a big bull cycle for tech,” said George Catrambone, the head of Americas trading at DWS, a fund manager. “I don’t think people will give up that paradigm easily.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Dow Jones averages; Stock exchanges; Interest rates; Regional banks

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock exchanges Interest rates Regional banks

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Netflix Inc; NAICS: 512120, 518210, 532282

Identifier / keyword: Netflix Inc; Signature Bank; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Recession And Depression; Facebook Inc; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Valley Bank; Enterprise Computing; United States Economy; Asset Allocation (Personal Finances); Paypal; Banks, Jillian; Banking And Financial Institutions; Federal Reserve System; United States; Company Reports; Alphabet Inc; Budgets And Budgeting; Relocation Of Business; International Trade And World Market; Corporations; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; S & P Dow Jones Indices; Credit And Debt; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Silicon Valley Bank; Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index; International Business Machines Corporation; Apple Inc; Europe; Google Inc; Personal Finances; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); First Republic Bank; Pensions And Retirement Plans; AmazonCom Inc; Executives And Management (Theory); Openai Labs; Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Dow Jones Stock Average; Stocks And Bonds; Software; Standard & Poor's Corp; Artificial Intelligence; Real Estate (Commercial); Television; Meta Platforms Inc; Business

Title: How Big Tech Camouflaged Wall Street’s Crisis

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 31, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-31T22:36:58Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793239679

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-big-tech-camouflaged-wall-street-s-crisis/docview/2793239679/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 31, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Busy Furniture Hustlers of Silicon Valley: [Correction]

Author: Griffith, Erin

Publication info: Griffith, Erin. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/busy-furniture-hustlers-silicon-valley/docview/2779829695/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As tech companies cut costs and move to remote work, their left-behind office furniture has become part of a booming trade.
Brandi Susewitz touched the curved stitching on a pair of bright red Arne Jacobsen Egg Chairs and announced they were worth around $ 5,000 each. The chairs were in pristine condition, perched in the reception area of the software company Sitecore's office in downtown San Francisco.
Trisha Murcia, Sitecore's workplace manager, said she was likely the only person who ever sat on them. "It's really sad," she said. "They opened this office in 2018 and then Covid happened."
Ms. Murcia led Ms. Susewitz around Sitecore's office, pointing out bar stools that had never been used, 90-inch flat screens, shiny conference room tables and accent chairs from the retailer Blu Dot. The whiteboard walls, outfitted with markers and erasers, were spotless. And rows upon rows of 30-by-60-inch, height-adjustable Knoll desks with Herman Miller Aeron chairs sat collecting dust.
Ms. Susewitz measured and snapped photos, identifying designer brands and models. Her office furniture resale business, Reseat, would take all of it, she declared. "We can find a home for this," she said. "We have time."
Ms. Susewitz, who started Reseat in 2020, is one of an increasing number of behind-the-scenes specialists in the Bay Area who are carving out a piece of the great office furniture reshuffling. There are professional liquidators, Craigslist flippers and start-ups spouting buzzwords like "circular economy." And a few guys with warehouses full of really nice chairs.
All of them are capitalizing on a wave of tech companies that are drastically shrinking their physical footprints in the wake of the pandemic-induced shift to remote work and the recent economic slowdown.
Nowhere is the furniture glut stronger than in San Francisco. Tech workers have been slowest to return to the office in the city, where commercial vacancy rates jumped to 28 percent last year, up from 4 percent in 2019, according to the real estate firm CBRE. Occupancy in San Francisco in late January was 4 percent below the average of the top 10 U.S. cities, according to the building security firm Kastle. And companies of all sizes, including PayPal, Block and Yelp, are giving up their expensive downtown headquarters or downsizing their office space.
Add to that the tech industry's recent U-turn from optimistic hypergrowth to fear and penny pinching. That has led tech giants such as Google and Salesforce, along with smaller companies like DoorDash and Wish, to carry out widespread layoffs, cutting more than 88,000 workers in the Bay Area over the last year, according to Layoffs.fyi.
Some start-ups have abruptly gone under, including the flying car company Kittyhawk, the autonomous vehicle start-up Argo AI and the interior design start-up Modsy. Others have slashed spending, starting with their dusty, rarely used offices full of designer furniture.
Last month, Twitter held a public auction for some of its furniture, hawking dry erase boards, conference tables and a three-foot blue statue of its bird logo. The social media company, which is owned by Elon Musk, at one point stopped paying the rent on some of its office leases.
Martin Pichinson, a founder of Sherwood Partners, an advisory firm that helps restructure failing start-ups, said he was staffing up to handle increased demand. Today's reckoning was not as severe as that of the dot-com bust in the early 2000s when dozens of tech companies collapsed, he said, but "everyone is acting as if businesses are falling apart."
That's led to a lot of expendable furniture, much of it hewing to a specific youthful aesthetic of Instagrammable bright colors and midcentury modern shapes. That look, complemented by plant walls of succulents and kombucha on tap, was a hallmark of the tech talent wars over the past two decades, telegraphing a company's success and sophistication.
Then there's the Aeron chairs. The $ 1,805 black roller-wheel desk chairs are a closely-watched barometer of tech excesses. Their sleek design makes them a work of art, according to the Museum of Modern Art. And in the tech industry, where workers are used to being pampered while chained to their desks, they are ubiquitous.
When internet companies imploded in 2000, liquidators filled their warehouses with the "dot-com thrones." Now any whiff of empty Aerons piling up conjures memories of that slump and sets off fears that another is imminent.
The Bay Area's Craigslist currently has gobs of the chairs for sale, photographed in warehouses, lined up in corners of conference rooms and wrapped in plastic outside a storage unit. Some are selling for as cheap as a few hundred bucks.
The listings are a reminder: Silicon Valley is a place of booms and busts, with enterprising hustlers who see nothing but opportunity, even in the rubble.
A trail of Dropbox furniture
For furniture specialists, it all starts with supplies from tech companies like Dropbox.
In 2019, the file storage company moved into its 735,000-square-foot headquarters in San Francisco. Its 15-year lease was the largest in the city's history at the time. Dropbox's old office was rented to other companies, and last year, a cache of furniture -- futuristic-chic chairs, couches and tables -- from that office made its way to a liquidator.
The inventory included several emerald green velvet Jean Royère-style Polar Bear chairs that cost roughly $ 10,000 to custom make in 2016, according to their maker, Classic Design LA.
Three of those chairs sold to Tenzin Norbu, a furniture reseller in Richmond, Calif., who paid around $ 1,000 for each. Mr. Norbu, 25, started buying and selling high-end furniture on online marketplaces early in the pandemic, when people were eager to redecorate the homes they were stuck inside and stymied by supply chain delays on furniture.
Since then, his business, called Enliven, has expanded to include a van, three employees, a 4,000-square-foot warehouse and annual revenue in the mid-six figures.
The tech talent wars, with companies competing to out-perk one another with the fanciest offices, were good for designer furniture. The retreat from that battle has been just as good for resellers.
Last year, Mr. Norbu scored some lounge chairs and couches from Fast, a payments start-up that collapsed in the spring. He also paid "tens of thousands" of dollars, he said, to fill a 20-foot truck of still-in-the-box furniture that WeWork, whose valuation had plummeted, had kept in storage since 2019. The trove included dining chairs, lamps, couches and a chunky red Bollo armchair by the Swedish designer Fogia.
On a recent tour of his warehouse, Mr. Norbu pointed out a pair of never-used felt poufs from a start-up, two glass coffee tables from Delta Air Lines, some gray lounge chairs that were "probably from Google" and plants from a venture capital firm.
Mr. Norbu aims to target more tech start-ups as his business expands. The companies are always acquiring or shedding furniture, since they tend to grow quickly and shut down abruptly. Many of his buyers also work in tech, he said, which means they could find themselves eating dinner at the very conference table they once gathered around for meetings.
Last year, Mr. Norbu sold one of the Polar Bear chairs that had been owned by Dropbox to a fellow furniture flipper, Nate Morgan, for $ 1,400. Mr. Morgan started trading furniture in the fall after he was laid off from a business development job at Meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram. He said he quickly discovered the Bay Area contains "crazy pockets of massive amounts of furniture."
Mr. Morgan's business, Reclamation, recently worked with a wealthy tech entrepreneur who had bought a second San Francisco home to live in while his main home was being renovated. The entrepreneur furnished the 4,000-square-foot second home with new goods from Restoration Hardware. Nine months later, when the entrepreneur moved into his main home, Mr. Morgan bought all of the second home's furniture for 10 percent of its retail price.
Mr. Morgan, 44, said the furniture business was a welcome shift from the 15 years he spent working in tech. "It feels really good to be building a local community business that's tied to this geographic area," he said.
Mr. Morgan later sold the Polar Bear chair that had been at Dropbox for a profit to an interior designer in Los Angeles, who then sold it to a client in the Hollywood Hills. From the liquidator, to Mr. Norbu, to Mr. Morgan, to the interior designer, each person in the chain made a little money.
Dropbox declined to comment. During the pandemic, the company shifted to remote work and made plans to sublet 80 percent of its headquarters. Takers have been slow; the company recently lowered its expected rate, pushed out its target for finding tenants by two years and recorded a $ 175 million charge on its real estate holdings in 2022.
Dropbox's remaining space has been converted into what the company calls a "studio" instead of an "office," designed for meetings and "touchdown spots," or cafes and libraries for people to sit, chat and work briefly. There are no more desks.
'It was a ghost town'
Ms. Susewitz, 49, has worked in office furniture since 1997, when she became a customer service representative at Lindsay-Ferrari, a Bay Area furniture dealer now known as One Workplace.
The furniture industry's wastefulness always bugged her, she said, with companies discarding durable, commercial-grade items that were built to last decades every time they moved. Companies waited until the last minute to deal with the furniture, she said, increasing the odds it wound up in the trash.
In the late 1990s dot-com boom, Ms. Susewitz created a business plan to build an online marketplace for used office furniture. She abandoned it when eBay took off, thinking the company would eventually solve the problem. "But that never happened," she said.
Over the next two decades, she worked in sales and business development, outfitting Bay Area businesses with goods from "the big five" of workplace furniture -- Steelcase, MillerKnoll, Haworth, Allsteel and Teknion.
When the pandemic hit, Ms. Susewitz's livelihood of new office furniture screeched to a halt. She watched with disgust as companies tossed out barely used desks and chairs.
"Perfectly good, brand-new furniture is just being carted off to landfills," she said.
So she created Reseat to help businesses liquidate furniture. The company uses an inventory management system that tracks the items' "life cycles" so it can quickly share the specifications for the furniture, making the goods easier to sell. Given enough time, sellers can expect 20 cents on the dollar for their furniture, she said. Reseat, which has 14 employees, has worked with more than 100 companies and sold more than eight million pounds of furniture.
"Our goal is to sell it standing," Ms. Susewitz said. "Once it ends up in a warehouse, it loses value and ends up collecting dust."
In December, Reseat was hired to liquidate more than 900 work stations, 96 office chairs, 40 work benches, 24 sofas and 84 file cabinets at an office in Santa Clara, Calif. Analog Devices, the semiconductor company that had moved out, hardly used the space during the pandemic. But Pure Storage, the data storage company moving in, didn't want those pieces. Reseat had just four weeks to sell the items.
"It just ate me up inside," Ms. Susewitz said. That she found buyers in time was "a miracle," she added.
Pure Storage said it was reusing a "substantial" amount of Analog Devices' furniture, including desk chairs and conference room items, but it planned to install its existing desks "to better suit how Pure employees work in a more open office environment." An Analog Devices representative declined to comment.
Ms. Susewitz was excited about the furniture at Sitecore because the company had contacted Reseat months ahead of its move, setting it up to easily find a home for its goods. At Sitecore's office, she showed off how to identify the size of an Aeron chair. Each one has a set of plastic bumps hidden on its back. Two bumps indicate the most common size, a "B."
There were 16 size Bs around a wooden conference table that Sitecore had built using wood from a houseboat that was in Sausalito, Calif. In the center, a basin filled with Legos was flanked by the universal emblems of the pandemic: a bottle of Purell and a package of Clorox wipes.
Before the pandemic, Sitecore was expanding its space so rapidly that it had leased another half of a floor in its office tower. But "once the pandemic hit, it was a ghost town," said Brad Hamilton, the company's head of real estate and facilities.
Sitecore plans to downgrade to 30 desks from 170. "We're paying an outrageous amount of money for a floor that nobody uses," he said.
Toward the end of the office tour, Ms. Susewitz surveyed Sitecore's empty kitchen area, outfitted with a Ping-Pong table, a Ms. Pac-Man machine and two curved, six-foot privacy coves. Ms. Susewitz said she would take everything, except for the plates and silverware.
Chair influencers
One result of the furniture trading is a lot more people logging into Zoom meetings from very nice chairs -- and not only in the Bay Area.
In January, Gilad Rom, a software engineer in Los Angeles, decided to upgrade his work station at home. He searched Craigslist and found a seller with 500 Aeron chairs -- apparently acquired from a SiriusXM office that had shifted to remote work -- in Culver City, Calif.
When he posted a picture of the chairs gathered in a room, their black foam arms intertwined, the reaction was explosive. Some people wanted to score their own cheap Aeron. Many more wanted to reminisce about what the empty chairs represented -- corporate excess gone awry.
"I think it brought back a lot of memories," Mr. Rom, 43, said. "Flashbacks from 2008 and 2000."
The seller, a secondhand furniture shop called Wannasofa, was so overwhelmed with calls after Mr. Rom's tweet that the store gave him a 25 percent discount. "Apparently I'm a chair influencer now," he said.
The reaction also gave him an idea.
"Maybe I should build an app that helps people find cheap luxury furniture," he said. "Maybe there's something there."
Photograph Top, Brandi Susewitz at the office of the software company Sitecore in San Francisco, scouting furniture to resell through her company, Reseat. Above, Sitecore's kitchen area, including a forlorn-looking Ping-Pong table at right. Below, Ms. Susewitz on the hunt and examining a Herman Miller Aeron chair as Trisha Murcia, Sitecore's workplace manager (bottom, at left), looked on. (BU6); Above, in Richmond, Calif., a furniture showroom belonging to Enliven, a resale business founded by Tenzin Norbu, top right. Below, more views of the showroom, with Mr. Norbu at bottom. The emerald green velvet Jean Royère-style Polar Bear chair, below right, cost roughly $ 10,000 to custom make in 2016, according to its maker, Classic Design LA; Mr. Norbu bought three for about $ 1,000 each. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Entrepreneurs; Office furniture; Warehouses; Startups; Layoffs; Pandemics; Social networks; Interior design; Corporate headquarters

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs Warehouses Startups Layoffs Social networks Corporate headquarters

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US; San Francisco California

Title: The Busy Furniture Hustlers of Silicon Valley:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779829695

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/busy-furniture-hustlers-silicon-valley/docview/2779829695/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

From TikTok Fame to 1099-Ks: Influencers Navigate Tax Bills: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kelley, Lora

Publication info: Kelley, Lora. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-fame-1099-ks-influencers-navigate-tax/docview/2779644902/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Many content creators who earned money for the first time on platforms like TikTok, Instagram and YouTube are figuring out what a 1099 form is and what they can write off.
Fortunes can ebb and flow substantially on social media platforms, with content creators reaping riches from viral videos one month -- and making little the next. Influencers may also receive lavish gifts, one-off checks and direct tips from loyal viewers.
In the eyes of the Internal Revenue Service, they owe taxes on all of it. For some creators, especially those filing freelance taxes for the first time, tax season can feel a bit daunting.
Carolina Paniagua made a few hundred dollars through the Instagram Reels Play Bonus Program by posting about books last year. Mx. Paniagua, 25, who uses they and them pronouns, works full time as a domestic violence educator in Chicago but understood that there would be tax implications for their side income.
"I'm walking through a minefield, figuring out what I'm supposed to do," they said. "I only have around 7,000 followers, and I don't make a ton of income through Instagram. But if you make money, you have to report it."
They have watched a lot of TikTok videos offering tax advice (the #taxtok hashtag has been used more than half a billion times) but are skeptical about much of the information they encounter. And they have questions about whether a certified public accountant will know how to handle their income from Instagram reels and whether they should file W2 and 1099 taxes together.
Many content creators see fluctuations in income each month, and their taxes can quickly become complicated. The expenses that they incur as content makers -- from ring lights to eye shadow kits -- may be unfamiliar to traditional accountants. As small-business owners, many creators are also on the hook for estimated quarterly taxes.
Laura N. Collazo Perez, 24, has posted about her taxes on TikTok. "People shouldn't give legal advice or financial advice, but social media is about sharing experience," she said. So it makes sense to her that creators are opening up about this aspect of their lives, too.
When Ms. Collazo Perez started generating an income as a freelance social media strategist and content creator in July, she began tracking taxable income and expenses in a spreadsheet. She said she had told herself, "This is an adulting task that needs to get done." She made about $ 25,000 in the second half of last year, she said.
Ms. Collazo Perez noted how easy it is for creators to start generating taxable income on social media. "When aspiring influencers or creators get into the industry -- which is as easy as a gifted collaboration -- you could be on the radar of the I.R.S.," she said, referring to brands giving creators products to post. She added, "I respect the I.R.S."
The I.R.S. maintains a gig economy tax center, which offers resources and guidance, including on 1099-K forms for those making money from online platforms.
And TurboTax introduced a resource offering TikTok-style video tutorials about how to file taxes. Lisa Greene-Lewis, a C.P.A. who works with TurboTax, said the company saw a 207 percent increase in users saying they are creators or influencers between 2018 and 2020.
Ms. Greene-Lewis said creators often got confused about how to handle taxes on items that brands sent them. "Gifts would be taxable at the fair market value," she said. "If it's something they're being paid to promote, that wouldn't be taxable."
A new cottage industry of accountants and experts has popped up to help creators file taxes. Fluent in the quirks of direct tipping and the peculiarities of creator write-offs, these specialized accountants often market themselves on social media.
Tony Hoong, a C.P.A. who posts on TikTok using the handle @thecpadude, helps creators get set up with a quarterly or biannual tax filing. "There's folks that know the tax is there but don't want to do it at all," he said. Some clients, accustomed to employers withholding funds for them, "are just blown away by the amount of the tax bill," he added. Ms. Collazo Perez is among his clients.
Katherine Studley, a tax accountant, posts on social media as The Only Consultant and helps a roster of OnlyFans creators with their taxes. "These are complex returns -- not standard Schedule C," she said of her clients' filings, adding that some need to consider items like S corporations, payroll and assistants.
The needs of these creators vary -- and fortunes can change quickly. "If you go viral, you might make $ 80,000 in one month," Ms. Studley said. "Some clients are 19 and haven't heard of a 1099." Others, she said, may need to issue 1099 forms to their own contractors.
She recommends that creators make professional bank accounts. "Have all of your spicy income deposited into that account," she said she advised her clients.
Eric Wei, a co-founder of Karat, a financial services company for creators, said some people suddenly earning online might panic and "ask their mom's friend's uncle's fraternity brother" for help with accounting. "Many times that person who comes from a more traditional tax background has no idea how a YouTuber actually makes money," he said.
Major creators often have varied income streams, he said, including ad revenue from YouTube, subscriptions from Patreon, affiliate links and partnerships with brands. "A lot of creators are keeping $ 50,000 in their PayPal or Venmo or Cashapp, because that's what they're getting paid for brand deals," Mr. Wei said.
Beyond that, creators making content in niches -- like magic, games or makeup -- may be able to write off expenses that directly relate to their content. Many creators, he said, "are missing out on a ton of write-offs."
Most people who watch a video of a band practicing in a studio may first notice epic guitar riffs or eye-popping style. When Michael Mincieli, the head of tax for Patreon, watched one of these videos recently, he saw tax write-off after tax write-off.
"I will look at videos and think to myself -- all the recording stuff in the background? That's deductible," he said. Mr. Mincieli continued: "Microphones? Deductible. The lighting for the set, that's all deductible. Producing software? That's deductible."
The name of the band in the video he watched? The Taxpayers.
Photograph Laura N. Collazo Perez, 24, a self-employed digital marketing strategist, said that content creators on social media "could be on the radar of the I.R.S." (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS MANTLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Taxes; Taxable income; Accountants; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Taxes Taxable income Accountants Social networks

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/25/business/content-creators-viral-taxes.html

Title: From TikTok Fame to 1099-Ks: Influencers Navigate Tax Bills:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779644902

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktok-fame-1099-ks-influencers-navigate-tax/docview/2779644902/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tax Changes to Know About: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Tara Siegel Bernard; Lieber, Ron

Publication info: Tara Siegel Bernard; Lieber, Ron. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tax-changes-know-about/docview/2779644879/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Doing taxes in 2023 feels a lot like it did before the pandemic. Still, there are some meaningful changes to keep in mind.
The 2023 tax filing season is probably most notable for what's missing: After three years of stimulus payments and pandemic tax breaks, nearly all of those extra benefits have faded away -- and tax refunds are likely to shrink as a result.
The child tax credit, which was more generous in 2021 and had lifted millions of children out of poverty, along with the earned-income tax credit, have largely returned to their prepandemic size. Charitable donations for people who do not itemize their deductions have also expired.
"A lot of the special benefits were temporary, and lot of those things have rolled off at this point," said Eric Bronnenkant, head of tax at Betterment, a financial services firm in New York. "We are returning to normal."
There are still plenty of other meaningful changes, quirky rules and new layers of tax tediousness to be mindful of before you file your federal tax return, which is due by April 18 (though if you file for an extension, you have until Oct. 16).
Here's what you need to know:
I take a deduction for mileage. Has anything changed this year?
Yes. With surging gas prices, the I.R.S. made a rare change in the middle of the year: It increased the amount that taxpayers can deduct for gas mileage, benefiting taxpayers who take the mileage deduction for business purposes and medical expenses. Active duty military members can also take a deduction for the costs of moving.
For the last six months of the year, from July 1 to the end of 2022, the business-related mileage rate rose to 62.5 cents per mile, up from 58.5 cents for miles driven Jan. 1 to June 30.
Taxpayers always have the option of calculating the actual costs of using their vehicle rather than using the standard mileage rates. "However, that would require not just being able to document the business miles, but also all other business expenses related to the vehicle," said Mark Luscombe, a principal analyst at Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting, a tax software and analysis firm.
Taxpayers who itemize their returns may also use the deduction for miles driven related to medical expenses; that rate is 22 cents a mile for the second half of 2022, up from 18 cents, the rate for the first half of the year. The mileage rate is the same for military members' moving expenses (available even if they do not itemize).
What tax breaks are available if I bought an electric car or made my home more energy-efficient?
There are a few -- but more generous tax incentives can be claimed next tax season thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, which was signed into law in August and expanded and extended many incentives. A recent guide from our colleagues, Nadja Popovich and Elena Shao, goes into greater detail.
For the 2022 tax year, however, taxpayers can claim a lifetime credit of up to $ 500 for qualified home improvement expenses related to energy efficiency, such as replacing exterior doors, windows, insulation materials or water heaters. But starting in 2023, the credit increases to $ 1,200 each year for certain improvements made through 2032. Additionally, there's another credit worth up to $ 2,000 annually for various new water heaters and heat pumps. Together, the credits are worth up to $ 3,200 for each year through 2032, Mr. Luscombe said.
The residential clean energy property credit -- for items like solar panels or wind turbines -- was also extended, through 2034. From 2022 to 2032, the credit is 30 percent of qualified costs.
Buyers of new electric cars in 2022 can claim a credit of up to $ 7,500, but a new qualifying factor was added to the mix over the summer: Vehicles purchased last year between Aug. 17 and Dec. 31 must have undergone final assembly in North America. You can find out where your vehicle was assembled on the U.S. Department of Energy's website. (Cars bought before Aug. 17 and received before 2023 aren't subject to that requirement.)
The credit is still available for new vehicles purchased from 2023 to 2032, but eligibility rules -- now subject to limits on taxpayer income and the car's price -- and other requirements have changed.
Install a charging station for your electric vehicle at your primary home last year? There's a credit available, as long as the station meets certain requirements.
I received a one-time payment from my state. Is it taxable as income?
For most taxpayers, no. But it could be taxable for certain people living in Georgia, Massachusetts, South Carolina or Virginia.
Some quick background: Nearly two dozen states issued one-time payments to certain residents in 2022, usually to ease the sting of inflation. There was confusion about whether taxpayers were obligated to report the money as taxable income on their federal tax returns because the I.R.S. hadn't provided any guidance before tax season began.
Nearly three weeks into tax season, they had an answer: While general payments made by states are usually deemed taxable income for federal tax purposes, there are exceptions that would apply to most of these payments.
Sixteen states' payments were deemed not taxable because the I.R.S. said it viewed them as disaster or welfare payments, which are generally not taxable. Those states are California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Maine, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. (The agency provided a chart that listed specific state payments that would not be taxable.)
In Alaska, dividend payments that are regularly made to residents generally are taxable, but the state's supplemental energy relief payment will not be.
The situation is more nuanced in Georgia, Massachusetts, South Carolina and Virginia, where the I.R.S. determined that payments may be taxable: Taxpayers who claim the standard deduction (and most do) will not need to report the state payments as income. But taxpayers who itemize their deductions will -- if the payment provides an extra tax benefit.
How would a taxpayer get an added benefit? People who itemize receive a federal deduction for taxes paid to state and local governments (including property taxes), also known as the SALT deduction, which is capped at $ 10,000 annually.
If a taxpayer owed $ 5,000 in state taxes but received a $ 500 state refund, that would mean the net payment to the government was $ 4,500. But the taxpayer would have reported $ 5,000 to the federal government for the SALT deduction, which would be overclaiming, explained Jared Walczak, vice president of state projects at the Tax Foundation. The solution, he explained, is to treat the payment as income.
What did the I.R.S. do with savings and tax brackets limits to ease the sting of inflation?
When a dollar buys less than it used to, the I.R.S. lets you put more of it away -- if you can afford to, at least.
In 2023, the maximum amount of money you can save in most workplace retirement amounts -- pretax -- will be $ 22,500, up from $ 20,500 in 2022. The cap on annual I.R.A. contributions will be $ 6,500, up from $ 6,000.
The tax brackets have changed, too. For people in the 24 percent federal tax bracket, for instance, that rate will kick in for incomes over $ 95,375 in 2023, or $ 190,750 if you're married and filing your taxes jointly. That's up from $ 89,075 for single individuals and $ 178,150 for married couples filing jointly in 2022. There are similar changes in other brackets.
Not everything is subject to such adjustments. People age 50 and over in most workplace retirement plans can save an extra $ 7,500 in 2023 beyond the normal $ 22,500 cap, up from $ 6,500 in 2022. Cost-of-living changes to these so-called catch-up contributions do not apply to I.R.A.s, however. There, the extra savings for the 50-and-up group remain at $ 1,000.
In the world of tax-advantaged flexible spending accounts, the cap on the money you can set aside in a health care one is $ 3,050 in 2023, up from $ 2,850 in 2022. But dependent care accounts don't change; the cap there stays at $ 5,000 per household, where it's been for decades. States tend not to adjust tax breaks for their 529 college savings accounts either.
I regularly use Venmo and other online payment services. Why is the I.R.S. coming after me?
If you get paid through online payment processors like Venmo, PayPal or eBay, there are some changes coming, but the I.R.S. pushed back the effective date to Jan. 1, 2023.
Small businesses, self-employed people and gig workers have always been required to track and report their own income so they can calculate their tax bill. But now, the federal government said it planned to collect more of those tax dollars from people who received business income through online payment processors. A new law will require the processors to issue tax forms, called 1099-Ks, that will capture more of the sellers' activity and report it to the I.R.S.
Before the changes, the processors issued 1099-Ks to taxpayers selling goods or services once their activity exceeded 200 transactions and $ 20,000 in aggregate payments annually. But new 2021 rules lowered that threshold to $ 600, with no transaction minimums. It's now effective for the 2023 tax year.
People selling items -- like a used couch or bike -- through online marketplaces aren't supposed to be affected by the new rules. If you paid $ 1,200 for a couch and sold it for $ 650, for example, you didn't make a profit -- that's generally not taxable and you don't need to report on your federal return, experts said.
Sending cash gifts or reimbursing a friend for your share of a restaurant tab shouldn't be captured by the new law either -- as long as these transactions are properly categorized on the app as between friends and family.
But mistakes happen, and it's possible (probable?) you'll get a 1099-K in error. In that case, you may need to report that you sold that couch at a loss on your federal return, Mr. Bronnenkant, of Betterment, explained.
Are there any tax consequences when my student loan balance is erased via a government program?
Probably not. Debt cancellation is generally counted as taxable income, but legislative changes make an exception for most student loan borrowers whose debt has been discharged from 2021 through 2025.
This covers loans held by borrowers who were defrauded by their schools, for example, or who qualified under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.
Many -- but not all -- states mirror the federal government's treatment, so you may owe state tax, according to Wolters Kluwer.
Are there any changes affecting retirement accounts that I should keep in mind this year or in the coming years?
Yes. Legislation signed into law in late December makes it easier for certain people to save for retirement (mostly those with the wherewithal to save) on a tax-advantaged basis. But many of those changes didn't take effect until this year and others don't start until much later.
For example, retirees will be required to begin withdrawing money from their tax-advantaged retirement accounts like 401(k)s and traditional individual retirement accounts -- known as required minimum distributions -- the year a person turns 73, up from 72. The previous age had been 70½.
And starting in 2025, people ages 60 to 63 will be able to set aside more for retirement -- with larger catch-up contributions -- which could lower their tax bill.
Are there any changes coming to Roth I.R.A.'s?
Yes. Here's an intriguing one: The new legislation from December will also make it possible for some people to roll over up to $ 35,000 from a 529 savings plan to a Roth I.R.A.
For years, lobbyists had worried that people were not saving for college (or not saving enough) because of concerns that they might not need the money, say, if a child doesn't end up going to college.
Starting in 2024, leftover money from a 529 plan can be moved to the account beneficiary's Roth I.R.A. There are limits though, including existing Roth contribution restrictions. Moreover, the 529 account in question has to be at least 15 years old, and you can't roll over money that you deposited (or earnings from those deposits) from the previous five years.
Still, careful planners could deliberately oversave in a 529 plan to give a young adult a head start on retirement savings.
What's changing for teachers?
For the first time, the tax deduction that educators for kindergarten through 12th grade can take is rising. It's available for unreimbursed expenses like books, equipment and courses related to their work.
Since 2002, the deduction has been no more than $ 250. For 2022, it is $ 300.
Educators and the accountants that serve them are cheering. "Every one of our teacher clients qualifies," said Erin Louis, an accountant in Seattle. "Teachers here are constantly spending money out of their own pockets."
It's been a bad year for crypto investors. Are they getting any new relief?
Not really. Existing tax law does allow people to take tax deductions for losses, and those rules apply to digital assets like crypto.
But the I.R.S. is staying in your face this year about declaring any winnings. Once again, there is a question on this year's tax forms that everyone must answer about crypto and similar holdings: "At any time during 2022, did you: (a) receive (as a reward, award or payment for property or services); or (b) sell, exchange, gift or otherwise dispose of a digital asset (or a financial interest in a digital asset)?"
Minnie Lau, an accountant in San Francisco, said that her clients were disappointed that a lingering question about the taxability of certain crypto assets remained unresolved. It involves whether rewards, in the form of digital assets, for so-called staking were taxable the moment you get those rewards or only when you sell or otherwise dispose of them.
Crypto investors were hopeful that a court case would settle the matter, but that did not happen this year. Ms. Lau said that she was taking the conservative approach and having clients pay taxes as soon as they were able to withdraw any rewards. In an interview, David Kemmerer, chief executive of the tax and portfolio-tracking software provider CoinLedger, said that his company was making a similar recommendation, as were other tax experts.
Ann Carrns contributed reporting.
Ann Carrns contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Taxable income; Taxpayers; Tax refunds; Electric vehicles; Pandemics; Taxes; Energy efficiency; Cost control; Water heaters; Tax cuts; Tax credits; Moving & housing expenses

Business indexing term: Subject: Taxable income Taxpayers Tax refunds Taxes Cost control Tax cuts Tax credits

Location: South Carolina; New York; United States--US; Massachusetts; Georgia; Virginia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/25/your-money/taxes-venmo-student-loans.html

Title: Tax Changes to Know About:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779644879

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tax-changes-know-about/docview/2779644879/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

They Went Viral and Made Money. Now They Owe Taxes.

Author: Kelley, Lora

Publication info: Kelley, Lora. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-went-viral-made-money-now-owe-taxes/docview/2779574413/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Fortunes can ebb and flow substantially on social media platforms, with content creators reaping riches from viral videos one month — and making little the next. Influencers may also receive lavish gifts, one-off checks and direct tips from loyal viewers.
In the eyes of the IRS, they owe taxes on all of it. For some creators, especially those filing freelance taxes for the first time, tax season can feel a bit daunting.
Carolina Paniagua made a few hundred dollars through the Instagram Reels Play Bonus Program by posting about books last year. Paniagua, 25, who uses they and them pronouns, works full time as a domestic violence educator in Chicago but understood that there would be tax implications for their side income.
“I’m walking through a minefield, figuring out what I’m supposed to do,” they said. “I only have around 7,000 followers, and I don’t make a ton of income through Instagram. But if you make money, you have to report it.”
They have watched a lot of TikTok videos offering tax advice (the #taxtok hashtag has been used more than half a billion times) but are skeptical about much of the information they encounter. And they have questions about whether a certified public accountant will know how to handle their income from Instagram reels and whether they should file W2 and 1099 taxes together.
Many content creators see fluctuations in income each month, and their taxes can quickly become complicated. The expenses that they incur as content makers — from ring lights to eye shadow kits — might be unfamiliar to traditional accountants. As small-business owners, many creators are also on the hook for estimated quarterly taxes.
Laura N. Collazo Perez, 24, has posted about her taxes on TikTok. “People shouldn’t give legal advice or financial advice, but social media is about sharing experience,” she said. So it makes sense to her that creators are opening up about this aspect of their lives, too.
When Collazo Perez started generating an income as a freelance social media strategist and content creator in July, she began tracking taxable income and expenses in a spreadsheet. She said she had told herself, “This is an adulting task that needs to get done.” She made about $25,000 in the second half of last year, she said.
Collazo Perez noted how easy it is for creators to start generating taxable income on social media. “When aspiring influencers or creators get into the industry — which is as easy as a gifted collaboration — you could be on the radar of the IRS,” she said, referring to brands giving creators products to post. She added, “I respect the IRS.”
The IRS maintains a gig economy tax center, which offers resources and guidance, including on 1099-K forms for those making money from online platforms.
And TurboTax introduced a resource offering TikTok-style video tutorials about how to file taxes. Lisa Greene-Lewis, a CPA who works with TurboTax, said the company saw a 207% increase in users saying they are creators or influencers between 2018 and 2020.
Greene-Lewis said creators often get confused about how to handle taxes on items that brands sent them. “Gifts would be taxable at the fair market value,” she said. “If it’s something they’re being paid to promote, that wouldn’t be taxable.”
A new cottage industry of accountants and experts has popped up to help creators file taxes. Fluent in the quirks of direct tipping and the peculiarities of creator write-offs, these specialized accountants often market themselves on social media.
Tony Hoong, a CPA who posts on TikTok using the handle @thecpadude, helps creators get set up with a quarterly or biannual tax filing. “There’s folks that know the tax is there but don’t want to do it at all,” he said. Some clients, accustomed to employers withholding funds for them, “are just blown away by the amount of the tax bill,” he added. Collazo Perez is among his clients.
Katherine Studley, a tax accountant, posts on social media as The Only Consultant and helps a roster of OnlyFans creators with their taxes. “These are complex returns — not standard Schedule C,” she said of her clients’ filings, adding that some need to consider items like S corporations, payroll and assistants.
The needs of these creators vary — and fortunes can change quickly. “If you go viral, you might make $80,000 in one month,” Studley said. “Some clients are 19 and haven’t heard of a 1099.” Others, she said, may need to issue 1099 forms to their own contractors.
She recommends that creators make professional bank accounts. “Have all of your spicy income deposited into that account,” she said she advised her clients.
Eric Wei, a co-founder of Karat, a financial services company for creators, said some people suddenly earning online might panic and “ask their mom’s friend’s uncle’s fraternity brother” for help with accounting. “Many times that person who comes from a more traditional tax background has no idea how a YouTuber actually makes money,” he said.
Major creators often have varied income streams, he said, including ad revenue from YouTube, subscriptions from Patreon, affiliate links and partnerships with brands. “A lot of creators are keeping $50,000 in their PayPal or Venmo or Cashapp, because that’s what they’re getting paid for brand deals,” Wei said.
Beyond that, creators making content in niches — like magic, games or makeup — might be able to write off expenses that directly relate to their content. Many creators, he said, “are missing out on a ton of write-offs.”
Most people who watch a video of a band practicing in a studio may first notice epic guitar riffs or eye-popping style. When Michael Mincieli, the head of tax for Patreon, watched one of these videos recently, he saw tax write-off after tax write-off.
“I will look at videos and think to myself — all the recording stuff in the background? That’s deductible,” he said. Mincieli continued: “Microphones? Deductible. The lighting for the set, that’s all deductible. Producing software? That’s deductible.”
The name of the band in the video he watched? The Taxpayers. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Taxes; CPAs; Taxable income; Accountants; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Taxes CPAs Taxable income Accountants Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Internal Revenue Service--IRS; NAICS: 921130; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

Identifier / keyword: Business; Trinny London Ltd; Paypal; YoutubeCom; Venmo; Onlyfans; Patreon Inc; Turbotax (Intuit Inc); Instagram Inc; Tiktok (Bytedance); Internal Revenue Service; Senses And Sensation; Wages And Salaries; Instant Messaging; Accounting And Accountants; Income; Taxation; Pornography; Music; Magazines; Advertising And Marketing; Labor And Jobs; Freelancing, Self Employment And Independent Contracting; Tax Preparers And Preparation; Banking And Financial Institutions; Pop And Rock Music; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Computers And The Internet; Income Tax

Title: They Went Viral and Made Money. Now They Owe Taxes.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-24 @ 22:17

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779574413

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-went-viral-made-money-now-owe-taxes/docview/2779574413/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Several Santos Associates Question Handling of Animal Charity Funds: [National Desk]

Author: Gold, Michael; Ashford, Grace

Publication info: Gold, Michael; Ashford, Grace. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/several-santos-associates-question-handling/docview/2773502915/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Several people questioned the way Mr. Santos's charity, Friends of Pets United, handled funds that were raised to benefit the animals.
Money had come in from raffles and sales of gift baskets; a few pets had found new homes. All in all, the adoption charity event at a Pet Oasis store on Staten Island had been a success.
But then the charity's leader made an odd request: He insisted that the store owner give him the proceeds in a check made out to his name, Anthony Devolder.
The owner refused and made the check payable to the charity, Friends of Pets United. Days later, when he looked at his bank records, he noticed that the check had been altered: The charity's name had been blotted out. "When it cashed, it was crossed out, and it had Anthony Devolder written on it," the owner, Daniel Avissato, said.
Anthony Devolder is now better known as Representative George Santos, a Republican from New York whose election to Congress in November was upended by revelations of falsehoods in his background and irregularities in his personal and campaign finances.
Federal and local prosecutors are investigating whether Mr. Santos's lies on the campaign trail or his unusual campaign expenses and fund-raising practices merit criminal charges. And F.B.I. agents are now apparently looking into some of his work with Friends of Pets United, as first reported by Politico.
Mr. Santos has said that he "founded and ran" the charity from 2013 to 2018. In that time, Mr. Santos's campaign biography once asserted, the organization rescued more than 2,500 animals. He recently characterized his involvement with the charity as a "labor of love and hard work."
Mr. Santos has not substantiated his claims. Few public records exist to corroborate them, and Friends of Pets United's operations appear to have centered on a Facebook group that is now defunct. Only traces of the organization remain on public social media posts and GoFundMe campaigns, and Mr. Santos's campaign biography no longer mentions it.
Mr. Santos's lawyer, Joe Murray, would not answer questions about Friends of Pets United, citing pending investigations into Mr. Santos.
Screenshots from the Facebook group and interviews with former volunteers and associates of Mr. Santos help construct a fuller picture of the charity's operations. They recalled scattered efforts: Some pets were rescued; charitable events were held; and money and supplies were donated to animal groups.
But they also suggest that Mr. Santos's penchant for falsehoods and exaggerations extended to Friends of Pets United. Several people said Mr. Santos assured them he was operating a registered nonprofit, but no records exist to confirm that.
They said the group rescued far fewer pets than the more than 2,500 animals that Mr. Santos claimed it saved. The group was not registered as a rescue organization in New York State, and there was no record that it was authorized to take dogs from New York City shelters.
And several people took issue with how Mr. Santos handled his group's funds, saying they never received the thousands of dollars he raised on their behalf, often through GoFundMe.
Regina Spadavecchia, who runs the Adore-a-Bullie Paws and Claws rescue in the Bronx, said that Mr. Santos boasted of his fund-raising prowess, saying he was a financial money manager with connections. In reality, he had worked for a Turkey-based hospitality technology company, eventually moving on to work at a small company that organized conferences for investors and fund managers.
Ms. Spadavecchia accepted his claims and, with at least a dozen dogs in her care, was eager for the help. In March 2017, Mr. Santos posted on Facebook that he was raising money for Adore-a-Bullie, through a $ 5 raffle for a dinner cruise and Broadway tickets.
But Mr. Santos never fully followed through on his promises, Ms. Spadavecchia said, sending her around $ 400 instead of the thousands of dollars he had suggested. She decided to cut ties with him.
"If you're doing fund-raising in my name, and you're claiming you can make a couple of thousand, and you're sending me $ 400, then something's off," Ms. Spadavecchia said. "You're either boasting about stuff you can't do, or you're keeping money on the side. I don't know."
A dog's death
In October 2015, Mr. Santos used one of the charity's earliest Facebook posts to boast that the group had participated in 20 adoptions in its two months in operation. (His campaign biography indicated the group began work far earlier, in 2013.)
Screenshots of the Facebook group provided to The New York Times show that Mr. Santos often reposted photos from other rescues or other Facebook pages, pleading with the group's members to help save dogs and cats in need.
Monica Cunha, who first connected to Mr. Santos through a Facebook page for Brazilian pet lovers, recalled his taking dogs whose owners could no longer care for them and trying to find them new homes. But she said he rarely posted details of successful adoptions.
Existing posts on Facebook and screenshots also show that Mr. Santos was frequently fund-raising through GoFundMe pages, direct solicitations to a PayPal account and supposed raffles.
In those solicitations, Mr. Santos consistently referred to the charity as a tax-exempt organization. Yet federal and state officials could not find records of a registered charity named Friends of Pets United. New York's Department of Agriculture and Markets said that it had no records that the organization was registered as a rescue, as would have been required starting in September 2017.
The Animal Care Centers of NYC, New York City's contracted provider for animal-related services, said it had no record of working with Friends of Pets United nor any indication that such a group was authorized to pull dogs from its shelters.
Mr. Santos has not explained his descriptions of the charity's status. In an interview in December with City & State, he equivocated but appeared to lay the blame on somebody else.
"You know, somebody along the line -- and again, this is all stuff that are being looked into, to show and get that taken care of. Because, again, I wasn't alone on this," Mr. Santos said, even as he maintained that he handled the bulk of charity's operations.
"I was the guy picking up poop, cleaning, getting people, doing campaigns online," he said. "But we had a broader group of folks who helped out."
Ms. Spadavecchia was not the only person to raise concerns about how Mr. Santos was handling Friends of Pets United's funds. In late 2016, GoFundMe received a complaint about a fund-raiser that Mr. Santos operated to help a veteran, Richard Osthoff, raise money for his dog's surgery, a spokesman said.
Mr. Osthoff, whose encounter with Mr. Santos was reported earlier by the local news site Patch, has not responded to requests for an interview. But a friend, Michael Boll, who became involved in the situation, provided screenshots of text messages between Mr. Santos and Mr. Osthoff.
According to Mr. Boll, Mr. Osthoff learned that his dog, Sapphire, had a tumor that required $ 3,000 of surgery. At the time, Mr. Osthoff, 47, was suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and living in a tent, Mr. Boll said.
A veterinary technician named Andrea Dos Santos connected Mr. Osthoff to Mr. Santos, saying that Friends of Pets United could probably provide support.
"I felt bad because Rich is like, 'I don't have the money, this and that.' And he's crying," Ms. Dos Santos said. "I knew Anthony at the time, and I told him, 'Can you help this guy?' Because, you know, he was helping me."
According to Patch, Mr. Santos set up a GoFundMe page in May 2016. It met its goal in June, ultimately raising $ 3,055. Yet months passed without Mr. Osthoff's receiving any money. By November, Mr. Osthoff -- still unable to pay for Sapphire's operation -- was clearly frustrated.
Mr. Osthoff told Mr. Santos in text messages that he felt he had been used "for my family and friends donations," and that he was "sick of being jerked around." The $ 3,000, he said, "belongs to an innocent pooch and she's been taken advantage of."
Mr. Santos responded that Mr. Osthoff was overreacting, accusing him of being needy and uncooperative. He refused to give the funds directly to the veteran, arguing that the money had been raised for Friends of Pets United, and stressed it was in safe hands.
"We are audited," Mr. Santos wrote, again asserting his organization was a tax-exempt charity. He added, "We are with the highest standards of integrity."
Hoping to mediate, Mr. Boll, who runs a veteran outreach charity, stepped in. He was surprised when Mr. Santos suggested the funds might go to other animals.
"I said, 'You can't just do what you want with the money. This is under false pretenses,"' Mr. Boll said.
Sapphire died in January 2017. Mr. Santos has denied any wrongdoing. In an interview with One America News on Saturday, he insisted he "never handled the finances" of Friends of Pets United.
The spokesman for GoFundMe, Jalen Drummond, said that the site ultimately asked Mr. Santos for "proof of the delivery of funds." When he did not respond, the site removed the fund-raiser and blocked the email associated with it from being used in the future.
'Karma's gonna get you'
In 2017, Friends of Pets United held an event to benefit a farm in New Jersey owned by Ms. Dos Santos. The organization said it planned to use the farm for rescue operations.
Ms. Dos Santos, who said she was out of touch with Mr. Osthoff and did not know about his interactions with Mr. Santos, said that Mr. Santos told her that he could help raise money to repair her barn and build fences for a private sanctuary for abused animals. So she agreed to host an event at the farm, soliciting donations from friends and laying out her own money for refreshments, she said.
For $ 50, guests to the farm would get live music, drinks and barbecue. Dozens of people came, according to Ms. Dos Santos and another person who attended, and the turnout raised Ms. Dos Santos's hopes. A GoFundMe page for the event raised $ 2,165.
But after the event, Mr. Santos, who had handled all the money, was hard to reach, Ms. Dos Santos said.
"It was excuse after excuse after excuse," Ms. Dos Santos said, adding that she never received the money.
In their final conversation, Ms. Dos Santos remembers issuing a warning. "'Karma's gonna get you,' I said, 'and if it does, you're going to remember me. Because you are going to deserve everything you are going to get."'
GoFundMe would not provide more information about Mr. Santos's use of the site or whether it received other complaints about his fund-raisers.
It was unclear how much money he raised on PayPal, or whether PayPal had received any complaints. A representative for PayPal declined to comment, citing privacy issues.
There were examples of the charity having done legitimate work. In September 2015, Mr. Santos raised $ 470 to help pay vet bills for Zizi, a dog found in Queens who he said needed vaccines and examinations. His fund-raising pitch included a $ 124 bill that he said he paid.
In October 2017, Mr. Santos and a group in F.OP.U.-branded T-shirts took part in a Halloween event at one Pet Oasis store. The next month, Pet Oasis said on Facebook that Friends of Pets United was "officially partnered up to do pet adoptions every Saturday."
Weeks later, he said he needed another $ 340 to help Zizi's mother and sister.
Mr. Santos also had ties to an animal shelter in South Carolina, the Berkeley Animal Center. Jenna-Ley Jamison, a spokeswoman, said that the shelter's records showed that it sent just two dogs to Friends of Pets United, on Dec. 8, 2017.
Judi Eskenazi, who once helped run an animal rescue in New Jersey, said that Mr. Santos asked her in January 2018 to help him with six dogs he took from a South Carolina shelter. A friend of hers at another rescue took the animals.
At the time, Mr. Santos told Ms. Eskenazi that he was closing his rescue, she said. Months later, he was back with a similar story: He was about to shut down and urgently needed to place his last remaining animals. He would repeat the spiel throughout the year, she said.
By December, Ms. Eskenazi was tired of Mr. Santos's entreaties and started swapping stories with a friend who ran an animal rescue and had similar experiences.
That friend decided to learn more about Friends of Pets United and the man behind it, Anthony Devolder. Days later, she sent Ms. Eskenazi a Facebook message.
"Wait this is so weird," she wrote. "I'm pretty sure his name is actually george."
Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Photograph Prosecutors are looking at whether Representative George Santos's lies or unusual expenses and fund-raising practices merit charges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNY HOLSTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Andrea Dos Santos, a veterinary technician, at her farm with Mr. Santos. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA ANDREA DOS SANTOS) This article appeared in print on page A15.

Subject: Donations; Charities; Criminal investigations; Animals; Pets; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Donations Social networks

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

People: Santos, George

Company / organization: Name: GoFundMe; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/06/nyregion/santos-pets-animal-charity.html

Title: Several Santos Associates Question Handling of Animal Charity Funds:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.15

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2773502915

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/several-santos-associates-question-handling/docview/2773502915/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Buy Now, Pay Later' Model Is Facing a Crisis: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Ledbetter, James

Publication info: Ledbetter, James. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/buy-now-pay-later-model-is-facing-crisis/docview/2770573619/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: What once seemed like attractive economics have been upended by increasing competition and rising interest rates.
Last Tuesday was a rough day for Goldman Sachs. The share price fell 6 percent after the Wall Street giant reported its worst earnings miss in a decade. On a call that morning, analysts peppered David Solomon, the bank's C.E.O., with questions about its consumer banking strategy, and about one unit in particular, GreenSky.
Goldman closed its $ 2.2 billion acquisition of GreenSky, a pioneer in the "buy now, pay later" (B.N.P.L.) lending sector, in March, calling it a key piece in its strategy to build "the consumer banking platform of the future." It flew under the radar until last quarter, the first in which Goldman broke out earnings for its "platform solutions" business unit, which includes GreenSky. The picture wasn't pretty. Revenues were up, but the division lost $ 1.66 billion in 2022.
Goldman's troubles with GreenSky are indicative of a cloud hanging over the sector. B.N.P.L. was one of the fastest-growing areas in financial technology for years, spawning Europe's most valuable start-up, Klarna, and promising to revolutionize how we consume and how banks could reach tech-savvy new market segments. The growth should continue; according to Worldpay, B.N.P.L. accounted for 3.8 percent of North American e-commerce transactions in 2021 and is projected to grow to 8.5 percent by 2025.
But what once seemed like attractive economics have been upended. B.N.P.L. providers rely on loans for the money that they lend to customers for free, and with rising interest rates, those loans have become more expensive. Passing higher costs onto customers may be difficult: Those who like the idea of paying for a jacket or a dishwasher in installments may not be willing to pay extra for the privilege.
The industry is now facing an existential crisis, as profits remain elusive, valuations plummet, competition increases and regulators ask tough questions about the lending practices behind B.N.P.L.
A victim of its own success
Klarna, the SoftBank-backed B.N.P.L. company, until recently was the largest start-up in Europe, with a valuation of $ 45.6 billion. The Swedish company, started in 2005, hit the U.S. market with a splash. It lined up Maya Rudolph, the former "Saturday Night Live" actress, for a 2021 Super Bowl ad (average cost: $ 5.5 million for a 30-second spot). That may have helped it make inroads into the United States, but it has since fallen on harder times. The company has slashed jobs, and its valuation has plummeted to $ 6.5 billion, according to The Wall Street Journal.
"Candidly, 'buy now, pay later' is just a feature," David Sykes, Klarna's chief commercial officer, told DealBook. "If all you're doing is offering the ability to break a purchase up into installments, we don't think, long term, that's dynamic enough." Two of the other big global B.N.P.L. players, Affirm and Afterpay, have never turned an annual profit; Klarna says it was profitable in its early years.
What happened? Initially, the heaviest B.N.P.L. users were young women buying clothes and beauty products, and the option then grew among consumers of all ages, for any imaginable purpose or product. In the early days of the lockdown, Peloton exercise bikes were a popular purchase for B.N.P.L. customers. Ahead of its initial public offering in 2021, Affirm flagged its reliance on Peloton as a business risk, noting its biggest merchant partner accounted for more than a quarter of its revenue.
As B.N.P.L. has become more popular, however, more and more companies -- from American Express to Citibank to PayPal -- have muscled in. In June, Apple announced a plan to enter the market, although its rollout has been delayed until later this year. Increased competition is expected to drive down margins even further, as merchants drive harder bargains with the army of providers.
Regulators are ratcheting up scrutiny, too
At the same time, regulators are beginning to act on concerns about how B.N.P.L. providers handle late fees, customer privacy and disputes. Plans are underway to strengthen B.N.P.L. regulation this year in Britain, where some consumer rights campaigners complain the service is marketed as a benign payment option but is actually debt. And a September report by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau concluded that B.N.P.L. companies "are not providing the same rights and protections ... that credit card companies provide," according to a statement by the agency's director, Rohit Chopra.
For these and other reasons, public and private markets have punished B.N.P.L. companies. Affirm shares, for example, have fallen more than 90 percent from their November 2021 peak, in line with other unprofitable growth stocks, including Peloton.
Low valuations make B.N.P.L. companies acquisition targets for big banks, financial services companies, or an outside player such as Amazon or Apple. (Affirm has enjoyed its status as the exclusive B.N.P.L. provider to Amazon, but that agreement expires at the end of this month.) In 2021, Square (now Block) bought Australia's Afterpay for a hefty $ 30 billion; today a leading B.N.P.L. company could be purchased at half that price or less.
B.N.P.L. executives point out that markets often fluctuate wildly, and that as long as a business can control its unit economics, it has the basis to make a profit eventually. Still, they're building other types of businesses.
Mr. Sykes said Klarna was at least as focused on improving the overall shopping experience as it was on helping consumers pay for products. This means offering comparison shopping within the Klarna app, and providing discounts.
"We spend as much time now talking to the C.M.O.s of businesses as we do the C.F.O.s and the people who own the payments part," he said.
In Goldman's case, GreenSky targets customers with high credit scores who are paying for home improvement projects rather than small-ticket items, a spokesperson said.
Affirm offers other types of loans, such as monthly installments at 10 percent interest. A spokesperson for the company said B.N.P.L. was "the beginning of a whole new domain of products and even companies."
Jason Kupferberg, managing director in U.S. equity research at Bank of America, said that in the 2021 fiscal year, 43 percent of Affirm's loans were at zero interest. In the latest quarter, he said, only 36 percent were. Last month, he downgraded his rating on Affirm stock to a "hold."
B.N.P.L. is hardly a new financing option for the consumer. During the Great Depression, department stores began layaway programs, which allow customers to pay in installments. They were designed to keep people shopping rather than to generate profit directly. More than 80 years later, the fintech version may wind up with similar aims.
Goldman says it's committed to GreenSky, but, as it disclosed last week, the losses are piling up. It hopes B.N.P.L. will draw in new customers, but so far it's not driving profits that so many banks and tech firms are hunting these days.
James Ledbetter is executive editor of The Observer .
What do you think? Let us know: dealbook@nytimes.com.
Photograph Before it went public in 2021, Affirm flagged its reliance on Peloton as a business risk, noting it accounted for more than a quarter of its revenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA SHAW/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Growth stocks; Consumers; Customers; Interest rates; Corporate profits; Bank technology; Startups

Business indexing term: Subject: Growth stocks Consumers Customers Interest rates Corporate profits Bank technology Startups

Location: United States--US; Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/28/business/dealbook/buy-now-pay-later-struggles.html

Title: 'Buy Now, Pay Later' Model Is Facing a Crisis:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 30, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770573619

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/buy-now-pay-later-model-is-facing-crisis/docview/2770573619/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Easy-to-Use Mobile Payment Apps Are Easily Misused: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Carrns, Ann

Publication info: Carrns, Ann. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/easy-use-mobile-payment-apps-are-easily-misused/docview/2770214706/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: While they have taken steps to help prevent mishaps, a new report finds they offer few protections if, for instance, users accidentally send money to the wrong person.
The use of mobile payment services has surged -- along with worries about financial risks.
Services like Venmo and Zelle let people pay others or receive payments almost instantly, with a few taps on their phone. To use them, you typically download the app and link it to a bank account or credit card. Well over half of Americans use the payment tools, according to a 2022 survey by Consumer Reports.
But while they're fast and easy, the apps can have serious drawbacks. Users can lose money if they accidentally pay the wrong person, mis-type a dollar amount or succumb to a fraud or a scam that tricked them into making a payment. About a quarter of bank customers in an October survey by J.D. Power said they or a close relative had experienced fraud via a peer-to-peer service. And according to Consumer Reports, 12 percent of frequent payment app users reported sending money to the wrong person.
Users are mostly on their own in those situations because payment apps fall into a regulatory "gray area" and lack the robust loss protections of credit and debit cards, said Delicia Hand, director of financial fairness with Consumer Reports. "It's kind of a user-beware situation," she said.
In an analysis published this week, the consumer magazine determined that none of the four popular payment apps -- Apple Cash, Cash App, Venmo and Zelle -- reimburse users when a payment is mistakenly sent to the wrong person, because such transactions are considered "authorized."
The report said the apps also wouldn't compensate clients if a criminal tricked them into sending money -- perhaps by impersonating someone the users know or pretending to represent their bank -- because the users, in a sense, had approved the transaction.
When contacted, representatives of the apps did not directly challenge Consumer Reports' characterization of their reimbursement policies. But they indicated that they do encourage customers to reach out to them for help if they encounter a problem or suspect fraud.
"Each situation is reviewed on a case-by-case basis, as we strive to help any customer experiencing challenges resolve their issue," a spokesperson for PayPal, Venmo's parent company, said in an email.
The apps are more likely to reimburse users when they are the victims of fraud and didn't actively authorize the payment in any way -- such as when their phone or password was hacked or they lost their device. Several cap your loss at $ 50 if you notify them quickly, but your potential loss may rise to $ 500 after a few days. And if you wait longer than 60 days, you may get nothing. (Venmo says it covers the full amount if you notify the company within 60 days.)
Representatives of the apps said they had taken steps to protect customers and help prevent payment mishaps, and they urged users to follow advice on the app websites.
All advise using the tools only with friends, family or others who can be trusted, and the apps all include safety reminders or warnings. Apple Cash, for instance, sends a warning if users try to send money to someone outside their contact list. Venmo sends a "flag" if the app detects that the user may not know the recipient. The sender may get a pop-up prompt to verify the last four digits of the recipient's phone number.
"The security and privacy of all Venmo customers and their information is a top company priority," PayPal said in a statement.
Formal changes may be coming. Zelle, which is owned by a group of seven big banks through a company called Early Warning Services, is said to be weighing new rules that would reimburse customers duped by certain kinds of scams. And the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is considering issuing guidance that could make banks bear more liability for customer losses on peer-to-peer transactions.
The report also raised concerns about privacy risks because the apps may collect and share personal information widely, often for "vague" purposes, and some make it difficult for users to delete their data, Consumer Reports said. (Apple Cash states clearly that it does not sell data to third parties, the review found.)
In general, "slow down when using the apps," said Rachel Gittleman, financial services outreach manager for the Consumer Federation of America. Their speed is handy, she said, but it's easy to slip up.
Before hitting the button, confirm the recipient's user name, phone number or email address. "Double, triple and quadruple check" that you are sending the money to the right person, Ms. Hand said.
It's also wise to send a small "test" payment -- say, $ 1 -- and confirm the correct person received it before sending a large sum.
Think of the payments as cash, said Jennifer White, senior director of banking and payments intelligence at J.D. Power. "You would not hand someone you did not know cash, and so you shouldn't send cash to anyone you are not personally connected with."
Other tips: Use the identity verification options your app offers, like two-factor authentication, Ms. White said. They may slow things down a bit, but they can help avoid problems.
Check your accounts at least once a week to see if anything looks amiss. And if you no longer use an app, delete it from your phone so it won't be vulnerable to hacking.
While people may leave funds in the apps indefinitely and use them as a payment source, it's wise to transfer funds into your own bank account as soon as possible. But consumers may be reluctant to do so quickly since some apps may charge fees for "expedited" transfers, Ms. Gittleman said.
Here are some questions and answers about payment apps:
What should I do if I pay the wrong person by mistake?
The apps offer suggestions on their websites. Venmo, for instance, advises sending the person a request for payment, in the same amount that you paid, along with a note asking the person to repay you the money you sent by mistake. This "may help you get your money back faster" than contacting Venmo support, the website says. If that doesn't work, the site says, contact support -- "and we'll do our best to help."
But the do-it-yourself approach depends on the cooperation of the recipient. And some may be skeptical because banks also warn mobile app users to be wary of requests to refund mistaken payments, as they could be fraudulent. The American Bankers Association, for example, advises users to "never" send a payment to someone who says you got an accidental payment via one of the payment services. Instead, it says, contact the payment app about the error.
How can I avoid falling for a potential scam?
Be suspicious of unexpected requests for payments, the Federal Trade Commission advises, such as someone pretending to be a loved one needing quick cash for an emergency. Confirm, by speaking to the person, that the request is real and not from someone who hacked into the person's account.
Be aware that some scams may use messages that appear to come from your bank or from the transfer app itself. Apple Cash, for instance, warns about scammers posing as Apple tech support claiming to have found a problem with your device. They may ask you to test the device by sending a payment via Apple Cash. "You shouldn't make this payment," Apple Cash's website says.
What should I do if I am a victim of a scam using a payment app?
The American Bankers Association recommends contacting both the app and your bank, as well as the Federal Trade Commission. Complain to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and to your state attorney general's consumer fraud office, Ms. Gittleman advised.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Mobile commerce; Banks; Customers; Hackers; Bankers associations; Fraud

Business indexing term: Subject: Mobile commerce Banks Customers Bankers associations

Company / organization: Name: J D Power & Associates; NAICS: 541910; Name: Consumer Reports; NAICS: 513120; Name: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; NAICS: 926150; Name: PayPal Inc; NAICS: 522320; Name: American Bankers Association; NAICS: 813910; Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/27/your-money/mobile-payment-venmo-zelle-cash-app.html

Title: Easy-to-Use Mobile Payment Apps Are Easily Misused:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 28, 2023

column: R Money Adviser

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2770214706

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/easy-use-mobile-payment-apps-are-easily-misused/docview/2770214706/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 28, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Investing When Your Time Horizon Is Short: [Correction]

Author: Sommer, Jeff

Publication info: Sommer, Jeff. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/investing-when-your-time-horizon-is-short/docview/2765422287/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Cut back on stock and bond holdings, and focus on money market funds, C.D.s, Treasury bills and other options that are now offering high yields, our columnist says.
Over short periods, financial markets can be treacherous. So I usually recommend spreading your risks with low-cost investments in the entire stock and bond markets, and hanging in for decades.
But an email from a reader brought me up short.
"This 92-year-old just read your column," she wrote, adding, "Wish me luck."
I did wish her luck in an email, and I apologized for failing to be sensitive to her needs. Later, we spoke at length on the phone. Her financial accounts had been hacked, she said, so I agreed to conceal her identity to shield her from further problems. Her first name is Jane.
She relies on her investments for the income she lives on. "Investing for many decades would be nice," she said.
But even if she remains strong and healthy, and has the best intentions she is unlikely to be able to do it. She would like to pass some of her money on to family members, she said, but needs first to make sure that she has enough for herself.
I thanked Jane for helping me think about issues that are critical when you don't have the luxury of a long horizon. Although rising interest rates have wreaked havoc in stock and bond markets, I pointed out to Jane that they have created opportunities for short-term investors. There are now attractive yields in safe places like money market funds or certificates of deposit.
Safe Short-Term Holdings
Jane has been investing in stocks and bonds because they have produced better returns over long periods than holdings of short-term instruments like money-market funds, bank savings accounts and C.D.s.
But not in 2022.
As the Federal Reserve and other central banks raised short-term interest rates in a bid to tame inflation, bond prices fell (their prices move in the opposite direction as yields, or interest rates), and the stock market plummeted. It was the worst year for bonds on record, and the worst for the benchmark S&P 500 stock index since 2008.
But some safe short-term investments fared much better.
In fact, as I pointed out to Jane, if you need to be sure that your money is available for spending over the next year or two, this happens to be an excellent time to get a fairly high rate of return on investments with little or no risk, like money market funds, high-yield savings accounts and C.D.s.
Money market fund yields now average more than 4 percent, for large funds sampled by Peter G. Crane, the president of Crane Data in Westborough, Mass. Major companies like Vanguard, Fidelity, Schwab and T. Rowe Price offer such funds. Their yields have rapidly soared from near zero over the last year, following the lead of the Federal Reserve, and they are highly likely to rise closer to 5 percent if the Fed continues to raise interest rates, as it has indicated it intends to do.
Some high-yield savings accounts -- which carry government guarantees, unlike the higher-yielding money market funds -- are now offering interest rates above 3 percent, according to Bankrate.com. Bank C.D.s of a duration of one year or more are beginning to provide yields above 4 percent. Treasury notes with a maturity of two years are offering yields over 4 percent, and Treasury inflation, or I bonds, are paying 6.89 percent.
In short, at the beginning of 2022, short-term holdings offered almost nothing appealing. Now, there is a broad range of options with relatively handsome yields, though none look particularly good when inflation is still running at a 6.5 percent annual rate, as the latest numbers show.
Long-term Market Returns
When you can afford to invest for decades to come, the arguments for both stocks and bonds are compelling.
For the 25 years through December, the S&P 500 returned 7.64 percent annualized, including dividends, according to data compiled by Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices. That means that in nine or 10 years, your investment would have doubled, over and over again, outstripping the rate of inflation in most years.
Bonds haven't produced returns of that caliber over the long haul, but they have been quite good, nonetheless -- with returns of more than 6 percent annualized for diversified bond portfolios, based on Vanguard data.
But these gaudy long-term returns contain within them some horrible years, and 2022 was one of them. If you needed to convert stocks and bonds to cash, you probably incurred big losses.
The Horror of 2022
Consider a few numbers.
The last three months of 2022 were excellent for both stocks and bonds. The average stock mutual fund in the United States rose 7.8 percent in the fourth quarter, while the average taxable bond fund gained 2.4 percent, according to Morningstar.
Yet they didn't come close to making up for the devastation of the preceding nine months.
For the year as a whole, after including dividends, the S&P 500 lost 18 percent, the worst return since 2008. The average stock mutual fund fell 18 percent as well.
For bonds, it was the worst year in all of modern history, said Edward McQuarrie, an emeritus professor at the Leavey School of Business at Santa Clara University. The 12-month stretch through October was the worst for any 12 months since 1794. The calendar 2022 year returns were terrible, too.
The average taxable bond mutual fund lost 9.9 percent for the year. And long-term Treasury bonds, as measured by two leading exchanged-traded funds, the Vanguard Long-Term Treasury E.T.F. and the iShares 20+ Year Treasury Bond E.T.F., lost nearly 30 percent of their value.
Previously high-flying stocks like Tesla, PayPal and Meta (Facebook) lost more than 60 percent of their value in 2022. Shares of energy companies like Occidental Petroleum, Hess and Exxon Mobil gained more than 60 percent. Energy mutual funds and exchange-traded funds soared, and if you owned them and nothing else, you would have done fine in 2022. But making all the right choices over short periods like that is nearly impossible.
Will energy stocks rise again this year? I have no idea.
A Conservative Approach
Recall that one year ago, the start of Vladimir V. Putin's protracted, bloody invasion of Ukraine was still more than a month away. That action upended most predictions for world markets, and it caused fossil fuel prices to spike.
Short-term speculators can profit from moves like that. Most investors can't do that reliably, though, and those who need to be able to count on their investment returns over the next year or two probably shouldn't even try.
Owning some stock may make sense at any stage of life, but I would suggest doing so through broad, diversified, low-cost index funds that mirror the entire global market, and would not attempt to pick this season's winners. The costs of a mistake are too great if you don't have decades to recoup.
If you do have a horizon of decades, it seems reasonable to assume that the overall stock market will gain in value as the global economy grows. In the past 100 years, the stock market has beaten other asset classes, and I expect that it will do so again.
That isn't a sure thing, however, and even if stocks outperform over the long term, it will be difficult for many people to stick with their investments during the bad stretches that will inevitably come.
For those reasons, I'd hold some bonds, and keep some money in investments that can be converted immediately into cash, at any stage of life. But if your horizon is short, and it is likely that you will need to spend these investments soon, I'd be extremely conservative. In that case, reduce your stock holdings, be careful with long-term bonds and keep most of your money in the excellent short-term investment vehicles that are now available.
Follow Jeff Sommer on Twitter: @jeffsommer
Photograph Tesla, top, and other previously high-flying stocks lost more than 60 percent of their value in 2022, while shares of energy companies like Exxon Mobil, above, gained more than 60 percent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FILIP SINGER/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; BARRY LEWIS/INPICTURES, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Stock exchanges; Prices; Investments; Interest rates; Savings accounts; Central banks; Bond portfolios; Energy industry; Cost control; Money markets; Securities markets; Bond markets; Investment policy

Business indexing term: Subject: Stock exchanges Interest rates Savings accounts Central banks Bond portfolios Energy industry Cost control Money markets Securities markets Bond markets Investment policy

Title: Investing When Your Time Horizon Is Short:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 15, 2023

column: Strategies

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2765422287

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/investing-when-your-time-horizon-is-short/docview/2765422287/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Your Tax Refunds May Be Smaller This Year: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Carrns, Ann

Publication info: Carrns, Ann. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/your-tax-refunds-may-be-smaller-this-year/docview/2765256365/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Credits that were expanded as part of pandemic relief have expired, as has the deduction for donations for people who don't itemize.
With the expiration of more generous tax credits offered as pandemic relief, many taxpayers could see "significantly smaller" refunds this year, the Internal Revenue Service says. In some instances, taxpayers may owe money.
The federal government temporarily expanded several tax credits for 2021 to help support families during the depths of the Covid-19 pandemic. But Congress declined to make the changes permanent, so the credits reverted to prepandemic levels for 2022.
The child tax credit, available to working parents who meet certain income and other rules, provided as much as $ 3,600 per child in 2021. About 61 million children benefited, according to the Treasury Department. But for 2022, the credit returned to a maximum of $ 2,000 per child for eligible families. That means a family with three children may have received as much as $ 10,800 under the expansion, but would get at most $ 6,000 in 2022.
"That's a big, noticeable difference," said Melanie Lauridsen, director of tax practice and ethics for the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
For the earned-income tax credit, available to low- and moderate-income workers, a qualifying taxpayer with no children who received about $ 1,500 in 2021 would now receive $ 560, according to the I.R.S. And the child and dependent care credit, available to those who need care for family members while they work, returned to a maximum of $ 2,100, from $ 8,000 in 2021.
The changes could shrink refunds, or possibly result in a balance due in some cases.
Kathy Brown, president of the National Association of Enrolled Agents, a group for federally licensed tax preparers, said some taxpayers may be disappointed if they are expecting the same refund as last year.
Ms. Brown said she heard from a client who was eager to have her return processed so she could use her refund to take her child on a Disney vacation. Ms. Brown advised her to hold off on booking the trip, cautioning her that the refund "won't be as large as it was last year."
Some people who typically get small refunds or break even often file for an automatic filing extension, since they don't feel a sense of urgency, Ms. Brown said. But this year, she said, filers shouldn't assume they won't have a tax bill. "They may not get a refund, and they may actually owe tax." In that case, getting an extension may cost them interest and a late-payment penalty because an extension allows more time to file, but not to pay.
Taxpayers may also see reduced refunds this year because of the end of Covid relief stimulus payments, also known as economic impact payments. The third and final payment, of $ 1,400, went out to most eligible people automatically starting in March 2021. But those who didn't receive it could claim it as a recovery rebate credit on their 2021 tax return, so it would reduce their tax bill or be included in their refund when they filed their return in 2022. But there were no stimulus payments last year, so no recovery rebate credit is available on 2022 returns, said Kathy Pickering, chief tax officer at H&R Block. "There have been a lot of changes, with the expiration of Covid relief programs," she said.
Filers may want to have their returns prepared early in the filing season, so they can adjust their budget if their refund falls short of expectations. "Knowing where you stand lets you make appropriate decisions," Ms. Pickering said.
If you do owe money, don't panic, she said. You can file your return when the I.R.S. begins accepting them, but you don't have to pay the tax until the filing deadline in April. That gives you about three months to save up the money. If you don't have the full amount, you may qualify for a payment plan.
Also in 2022, some states with budget surpluses have been issuing tax rebates to residents. While there has been some confusion about whether such payments count as taxable income on 2022 federal returns, that is not the case, said Richard Auxier, senior policy associate at the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution.
Other changes this year include the end of a tax break for charitable donations for people who don't itemize, or detail, their various tax deductions. Last year, filers who chose the standard deduction -- a flat amount that reduces taxable income -- could claim a charitable deduction of up to $ 300 per filer. But now, only filers who itemize can deduct their charitable contributions. "That doesn't exist in 2022," said Tom O'Saben, director of tax content and government relations for the National Association of Tax Professionals.
At the same time, taxpayers are facing what will probably be another tax season with subpar customer service from the I.R.S. -- this after enduring two seasons of pandemic-fueled disruptions at the agency.
The I.R.S. is "poised to start the 2023 filing season in a stronger position," thanks to a reduced backlog of paper tax returns and newly expanded staff, according to a report to Congress this week from Erin M. Collins, the national taxpayer advocate. Ms. Collins heads a group within the Internal Revenue Service that works on behalf of taxpayers.
There is "light at the end of the tunnel," Ms. Collins said in the report. But the new workers must be trained, taking experienced staff away from their main jobs and creating a "difficult balancing act" that will probably delay significant change until midyear, Ms. Collins said. That is well after the April federal tax filing deadline. "In the short run," she said, "that may mean fewer employees are assisting taxpayers."
Filers should "do everything they can" to file returns electronically, check returns for accuracy and arrange for direct deposit of refunds to avoid delays, Ms. Collins said in an interview. Last year, her report said, refunds for paper returns were delayed by six months or more.
The I.R.S. said in an announcement on Thursday that it expected taxpayers to experience improvements this tax season, and that most people who file electronically should get a refund within 21 days.
Here are some questions and answers about the tax filings season:
When does tax filing season officially begin?
The I.R.S. will begin accepting returns on Jan. 23.
When is the federal tax filing deadline this year?
Tax day this year for most filers is Tuesday, April 18, since the traditional April 15 deadline falls on a Saturday and the next Monday is a holiday in Washington, D.C. Some filers, like those in federal disaster areas, including victims of the recent storms in California, will get extra time to file.
I sold a used item online last year. Will I get a form 1099-K?
A policy change would have required digital payment services like Venmo and PayPal to report transactions over $ 600 to the I.R.S., raising concern that casual online sellers would receive 1099-K forms reporting the sale, even if their transactions aren't taxable. Because of a backlash from lawmakers and an uproar from small-business owners, the agency postponed the change until next year. (The rule still applies, but just to sellers with more than 200 transactions totaling over $ 20,000.) If you get a 1099-K, Mr. O'Saben said, "don't ignore it." Try to determine why you received it, he said, and consider consulting a tax professional to help decide if you should report the amount as income.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Families & family life; Children & youth; Tax credits; Taxable income; Taxpayers; Tax refunds; Pandemics; Seasons; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Tax credits Taxable income Taxpayers Tax refunds

Company / organization: Name: Internal Revenue Service--IRS; NAICS: 921130; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/13/your-money/tax-refund-credit-irs.html

Title: Your Tax Refunds May Be Smaller This Year:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 14, 2023

column: Your Money Adviser

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2765256365

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/your-tax-refunds-may-be-smaller-this-year/docview/2765256365/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Look Inside SpaceX: [Science Desk]

Author: Brown, David W

Publication info: Brown, David W. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/look-inside-spacex/docview/2760045064/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Dec. 30: This article was updated to include a 61st launch that occurred after it was published.
HAWTHORNE, Calif. -- Clouds billowed from the Falcon 9 rocket, visible on the large screen looming above us. The vehicle was across the country at a NASA launch site in Florida, and engineers there were talking to engineers here, at SpaceX mission control. "Stage 1 LOX load is complete," a controller said, audible to people wearing headsets at 24 different consoles. It was T-minus 2 minutes and counting before liftoff on Wednesday, Oct. 5, and the rocket was fueled with liquid oxygen propellant. The mission's operators were ready to send four astronauts to the International Space Station.
Journalists typically are not allowed in the room where SpaceX guides its rockets to space and back to Earth. The company has been operating such missions with increasing frequency; in 2022, SpaceX has launched its Falcon 9 rockets 61 times, and sometimes multiple rockets the same day or on consecutive days. It is a cadence that is among the engineering feats that have transformed an industry and made SpaceX a central player in American spaceflight. And, the company was attempting something it had never done: launching three missions in less than 31 hours.
As it worked toward this goal, SpaceX allowed me to be in mission control for a couple of days in October to observe a sequence of launches, landings, dockings and deployments.
The rocket company and its 10,000 employees soared to new heights week after week in 2022, presenting what appeared to be a parallel universe governed by precision as chaos roiled the other ventures of Elon Musk, its founder and chief executive.
After buying Twitter, Mr. Musk became absorbed in efforts to overturn the social network's content moderation rules, then temporarily suspended some journalists from the site after they reported on an account that tracks the location of his private jet. The mayhem at Twitter has spilled over into Tesla, the electric carmaker that is a key source of Mr. Musk's extraordinary wealth, and which lost a considerable portion of its valuation since the Twitter acquisition.
And SpaceX employees have not been spared from Mr. Musk's gravitational pull. In November, eight former SpaceX employees filed unfair-labor-practice charges with the National Labor Relations Board, claiming they were fired illegally after writing an open letter calling Mr. Musk a "distraction and embarrassment," and lamenting his response to a report that the company had settled a sexual harassment lawsuit against him.
But those problems felt far away in mission control, where one crew member tabbed between 12 open windows on his screens. Meanwhile, at a console on the front row, Gwynne Shotwell, the president and chief operating officer of SpaceX known for keeping the company stable, scanned the overhead display, pointed and whispered to an employee next to her. It was time for the rocket and its astronauts to fly on a mission called Crew-5.
Watching a rocket launch is a deafening, visceral experience. But mission control has a library-like silence. The room itself is unpleasantly warm. At every triple-monitor workstation, members of the operations team typed and clicked. The occasional coffee cup, bottled water, hand sanitizer and candy packet littered the consoles, but overall the tables were sterile. There were no thick binders that once characterized NASA mission control to be found, nor were there the coats and ties of the Apollo era. Instead, hoodies, company T-shirts and Chuck Taylors were the corporate uniform.
The room's back and left walls are made of glass, revealing the sweep of the company's shop floor where tradesmen, machinists and aerospace engineers build, among other things, a rocket engine every two days. But two minutes before launch, the floor seemed vacant. Hundreds of workers were gathered behind the glass, peering in. The interior of mission control was monastic and methodical, but just outside it the crowd chattered, laughed and swayed, creating a skittish atmosphere of nervous energy.
Over the radio, the Crew-5 range coordinator counted down. "Ten, nine, eight ..." but he was drowned out by the SpaceX workers on the other side of the glass, shouting in full New Year's Eve mode.
Almost in unison, the mission operations crew reached forward and turned up the volume on their headsets to hear over the racket.
On the big screen, a column of fire separated the Falcon 9 rocket from planet Earth. It glided upward, cheered by the people who built it. But no one stood and celebrated inside mission control. Nor did their focus waver as the crowd behind cheered each step in the rocket's planned sequence. Inside the room, they studied charts and compared launch data.
Twelve minutes after lifting off, the Crew Dragon Endurance spacecraft and its four astronauts detached from the rocket's second stage, setting off at more than 27,000 kilometers per hour to catch up with the space station.
The mission's launch director, Mark Soltys, came on the voice network and addressed the astronauts, slyly referencing an internet meme tied to the movie "Mean Girls."
"On behalf of the entire launch and recovery team, it was an honor and a pleasure to be part of this mission with you," he said. "And while Oct. 3 may always belong to the 'Mean Girls,' Oct. 5 will forever belong to Crew-5. Godspeed Endurance. Cheers."
Nicole Aunapu Mann, a NASA astronaut and the mission's commander, responded, "Awesome, thank you so much to the Falcon team. That was a smooth ride up here. You've got three rookies that are pretty happy to be floating in space right now."
Back on the ground at SpaceX, the work had only just begun. Over the next 31 hours, the astronauts had to arrive at and dock with the space station, and two more rockets needed to carry a bevy of satellites to orbit. It would be a glimpse of what a truly spacefaring future for humankind could look like, in which mission control would be less like a single-event-driven facility and more like an air traffic control tower.
ðð
Reusable rockets on rapid launch cadences are now so normal that it is hard to remember how absurd the idea once seemed. In 1999, the founder of a dot-com start-up called Zip2, Elon Musk, came into "some resources to do interesting things" when he sold his business for $ 300 million. Two years later, the same executive, Mr. Musk, then 31, increased his fortune when eBay bought PayPal, of which he was the majority shareholder.
Mr. Musk had aspirations to land humans on Mars. Finding American launch vehicles absurdly expensive, he established Space Exploration Technologies Corp, better known as SpaceX. The key to undercutting competition, he eventually realized, was rocket reusability. In the concept SpaceX would achieve, the rocket would fly its payload to space, then land on Earth upright -- essentially a launch in reverse.
By 2012, SpaceX had become the first company to dock a private cargo spacecraft with the International Space Station. Then, in 2015, it landed a Falcon 9 booster for the first time. In 2020, the company flew two astronauts to the space station and returned NASA to human spaceflight for the first time in nine years.
Today, Falcon 9 rockets and Dragon capsules are the workhorses of NASA, the Defense Department and private spaceflight. Many SpaceX employees are animated by a fervor for Mr. Musk's vision: They want to play a role in permanently putting humans on Mars and making humanity a "multiplanetary species," as Mr. Musk puts it. SpaceX launches and landings, once bordering on magic, have become predictable, if not monotonous. But SpaceX employees sometimes bristle at the idea that the company's launches have become routine.
"This is not routine," said Benjamin Reed, the senior director of human spaceflight programs at SpaceX. "Years lead up to our launches, and especially these big NASA launches."
He said that before humanity can colonize Mars, spaceflight must become as normal as air travel. "But you never want your airplane pilot, your control tower people, to say, 'Oh, this is just routine."'
Mars will require the company to launch "multiple times a day, every day, all the time," Mr. Reed said. "What people have to understand is that it takes a lot to get there, and we're not anywhere close yet."
It's not only about Mars. NASA has pinned on SpaceX its hopes for landing astronauts on the moon, as part of the Artemis program. Both efforts will rely on Starship, a reusable stainless steel spacecraft, and the Super Heavy booster.
The program to build that spacecraft is being run by Ms. Shotwell, an engineer who joined SpaceX in 2002, the year it was founded, and was promoted to president of the company in 2008, becoming responsible for executing it by running day-to-day operations and strategic partnerships. Ms. Shotwell is often credited with helping drive many of its most significant achievements. She defended Mr. Musk to the company's employees after the sexual harassment claim emerged, and shares Mr. Musk's multiplanetary vision.
"The advantage that SpaceX has -- even over Tesla -- is Gwynne Shotwell," said Casey Dreier, the senior space policy adviser of the Planetary Society, an organization that advocates for space exploration. "She plays the key role as the steady and profoundly competent hand at SpaceX that keeps it winning contracts, producing as demanded and then channeling Musk's energy."
Lori Garver, the former deputy administrator of NASA and author of the book "Escaping Gravity," echoes that assessment. "She has not only been leading SpaceX to unimaginable success, but she has to balance that while managing someone who seems to keep trying to make it more difficult," she said.
Mr. Musk inserts himself into the company's operations, including an email he sent to employees the day after Thanksgiving in 2021 warning that SpaceX faced "genuine risk of bankruptcy if we cannot achieve a Starship flight rate of at least once every two weeks next year." (The rocket did not fly in 2022, and its first orbital test is expected in 2023.) In that email Mr. Musk called production of its engines "a disaster."
Employees of SpaceX and Mr. Musk's other companies also contend with his polarizing actions and statements. Even before his messy purchase of Twitter, he has had a penchant for public spats with elected officials; made statements about U.S. foreign policy, including the role it should play in the war in Ukraine; settled fraud charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission; the list goes on.
Mr. Dreier said relying on entrepreneurs like Mr. Musk introduces a measure of instability into American spaceflight and risks dragging NASA into the fray. High-profile corporate executives are going to personify space endeavors in a way that no national agency has, he said: "This was all previously the domain of a kind of a faceless bureaucrat."
For NASA, however, there is little alternative to SpaceX right now.
"We're actually in this surprising, quiet chokepoint where SpaceX is, functionally, the only game in town," Mr. Dreier said. With the company's dominance in global space launch, he added that in this part of his business empire, Mr. Musk has achieved some freedom to express himself without fear of reprisal. "Because what are they going to do?" he asks of NASA.
For all of SpaceX's achievements, the privately held company's accounting is murky to the public, said Pierre Lionnet, the research and managing director of Eurospace, a nonprofit devoted to studying the space industry.
"Nobody really knows anything about the financials of SpaceX," said Mr. Lionnet. "No balance sheet or financial report is available. We have a very large company of 10,000 people -- a main contractor to NASA and the Defense Department -- and there is absolutely no information available on its financial health."
In 2020, the investment bank Morgan Stanley assessed the value of SpaceX at $ 100 billion, and its Starship rocket alone as an $ 11 billion business. Regular Starship flights, Morgan Stanley said, would make Starlink, SpaceX's high-speed internet from space service, profitable. By 2030, the bank forecast Starship would be launching 10,000 tons of payloads into orbit per year. Mr. Lionnet said that for the math to work, by 2040, Starship would have to launch 46,000 tons. This is the equivalent of launching 100 complete International Space Stations a year.
The implicit assumption, he said, is that if the price of launch drops a lot, "you will significantly increase the demand." But, he asks, "What could be the use of all that mass?"
He added that there is one case where the numbers do work for SpaceX.
"It may be that, at a basic level, the goal of SpaceX is not to make profit, but rather, to go to Mars," Mr. Lionnet said. "If you buy into that, nothing else really means anything. And whenever Musk comes for money, he always finds people to give it to him."
ððð
Seven hours after the liftoff of Crew-5, another Falcon 9 stood on a launchpad at Vandenberg Space Force Base, three hours northwest of Los Angeles and much closer to SpaceX's headquarters. The primary mission control facility was still monitoring the astronauts' journey, so a second team worked in an adjacent, much smaller mission control center.
The client for Wednesday's second launch was SpaceX itself -- the flight would carry 52 of the company's Starlink internet satellites to orbit. SpaceX currently has 3,200 of the satellites in space, with the goal of launching about 39,000 more in the coming years.
Behind a veil of fog at the launch site stood a rocket that had flown 13 times, and it was a go for launch.
At T-minus 4 minutes, Ms. Shotwell slipped into the room, taking a seat at a console on the front row.
Outside, another crowd had gathered. During the final countdown, again, the room remained silent while the gathered SpaceX workers on the shop floor marked the final five, four, three, two...
The rocket launched and its booster touched down on a ship in the Pacific. One hour later, a video stream from space showed the Starlink satellites deploying from the rocket's upper stage. With Earth in the background, they drifted outward in a manner more like "2001: A Space Odyssey" than "Star Wars."
More than half of all SpaceX launches in 2022 carried Starlink satellites. By flying its own cargo 30 times in a year on rockets it reuses, the company's engineers can optimize the launch vehicles.
"We're still making changes to the rocket that improve performance. And we're at the point now where we can put almost 17 metric tons into orbit and recover the booster," said Jon Edwards, the vice president of Falcon launches. "That's a lot."
So far, the fastest SpaceX has recovered and reused a booster for launch is 21 days. The most flown booster has launched 15 times, with further launches planned.
"Honestly, a new rocket, in my opinion -- and I think most people have come around to this -- is scarier to fly than a fight-proven rocket," Mr. Edwards said. Although new rockets are heavily tested before their first flight, he says that "nothing compares to a flight test."
ðððð
The afternoon of the next day, on Thursday, the team in the primary mission control monitored the Crew-5 mission that had launched 29 hours earlier. The astronauts in the Crew Dragon capsule had reached the International Space Station and were preparing to dock.
Human spaceflight is by far SpaceX's most expensive and challenging activity.
"When you are sending people into space, you cannot err," said William Gerstenmaier, the vice president of build and flight reliability at SpaceX. Before joining the company in 2020, he worked at NASA for four decades. "I've been through two tragedies in my past career, on both Challenger and Columbia. Those are devastating to me personally, and I don't want to ever experience that again."
There is a hierarchy in mission control. For NASA-funded missions to the space station, a team in California, not NASA, owns and operates the capsule during flight. There is one launch director for Falcon 9 and four mission directors for supporting round-the-clock operations once Dragon is in orbit.
The mission director oversees a hierarchy of systems for both the rocket and spacecraft. Reporting to each system lead are specialists for each subsystem. They are constantly plotting data over that which previous missions reported. Each reports anomalies on voice loops to their system leader or the mission director, who will then discuss whether action is warranted.
Concurrently, mission operations members communicate across corporate chat software. Each specialist on a console has a back-room chat with their hardware team in another part of SpaceX headquarters.
SpaceX spends years training engineers to work in mission control.
"Not just anyone can do this," said Jessica Jensen, a vice president at SpaceX who helped to design the mission control processes. "You enter into our program, you say what type of role you want, and there are materials you have to study on your own and quizzes you have to take."
Instructors evaluate would-be operators in simulations using the actual mission control room. Technical accuracy and success is not enough; temperament is also assessed.
When the astronauts of Crew-5 mission arrived at the space station, their Dragon capsule used laser range finders called Dragon Eyes to guide the spacecraft during docking.
That Thursday's arrival went off without major hitches. The process was so slow, the operators so quiet, that except for a report of "Docking complete," it was nearly impossible to know what had just happened or when the process was, in fact, complete.
Hawthorne mission control had managed two launches and one docking in just over a day, with one launch to go.
ððððð
Almost 31 hours after Crew 5 launched, 24 hours after Starlink lifted off and an hour after the space station docking, the team in mission control was ready for yet another takeoff. SpaceX was about to set a commercial spaceflight record.
A crowd gathered outside mission control once again. Two TV and radio broadcast satellites from the company Intelsat were mounted atop the rocket. Hawthorne's primary mission control remained focused on the astronauts. The third launch would thus be run from the alternate mission control space.
"Stage 1 LOX load is complete," came the familiar words at T-minus 3 minutes. Ms. Shotwell had by now taken her customary front row spot. She whispered a greeting to Jared Metter, the director of flight reliability, and pulled on her headset.
I looked around the room. Watching this third launch attempt, it all felt so precise, so predictable. Onscreen, all the familiar graphs and grids. It was, indeed, like watching planes take off at an airport. On a deeper level, it felt like the future. It was starting to feel routine.
"Stage 2 LOX load complete," said the same engineer a minute later.
A member of the mission operations crew updated the main screen, adding multiple views of the rocket, the landing pad -- the usual.
"Falcon is in start-up." T-minus 1 minute and counting.
Fifteen seconds later, "Go for launch."
Then, seconds before liftoff, two mission operators, silent otherwise, began to mumble a little louder than the rest, typed and clicked, and one pointed at the screen.
"Launch abort has started."
"Abort."
Onscreen, a button labeled "GSW" flashed red. One labeled "PROP 1" flashed yellow.
"Cryo bottle pressure," said an operator.
"Leak -- that's my guess."
The conversation was louder now. Operators toggled between voice networks, click, click, clicked their mice and typed into their chat windows.
The rocket made the decision. It wasn't ready. The Intelsat satellites would not launch today.
Across the room, Ms. Shotwell removed her headset. She pushed away from her desk, and stood.
"It would have been super cool," she said to Mr. Metter. "So cool."
Ten minutes later, Mr. Musk offered a report on Twitter. "Tiny helium leak (just barely triggered abort), but we take no risks with customer satellites."
Forty-eight hours later, the rocket launched, deployed the satellites and landed successfully. Almost routine, but not quite.
Photograph The rockets for three SpaceX missions (from left, Starlink, Crew-5 and Intelsat) lifted off in rapid succession during a week in early October. (D1); Above, SpaceX's mission control room in Hawthorne, Calif., during the Crew-5 mission in October. A New York Times reporter was allowed to observe as SpaceX guided three rockets to space and back to Earth in less than 31 hours last fall.; Far left, Gwynne Shotwell, the chief operating officer of SpaceX. Left, a recovered SpaceX booster that returned to Earth, sitting on a spaceport barge in the Atlantic Ocean. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPACEX); Top, members of the SpaceX Crew-5 mission in October. Above, the Dragon Endurance crew ship approaching the International Space Station. Right, a Starship prototype on its way to the launching pad at SpaceX's site in Boca Chica, Texas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE SKIPPER/REUTERS; KJELL LINDGREN/NASA; SPACEX) (D4-D5) This article appeared in print on page D1, D4, D5.

Subject: Multinational space ventures; Sexual harassment; Moon; Employees; Earth; Space stations; Astronauts; Rockets; Mars; Engineers

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: International Space Station; NAICS: 927110; Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA; NAICS: 927110; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

Title: A Look Inside SpaceX:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 3, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2760045064

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/look-inside-spacex/docview/2760045064/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 3, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

31 Hours Inside SpaceX Mission Control

Author: Brown, David W

Publication info: Brown, David W. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/31-hours-inside-spacex-mission-control/docview/2760007962/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
HAWTHORNE, Calif. — Clouds billowed from the Falcon 9 rocket, visible on the large screen looming above us. The vehicle was across the country at a NASA launch site in Florida, and engineers there were talking to engineers here, at SpaceX Mission Control. “Stage 1 LOX load is complete,” a controller said, audible to people wearing headsets at 24 different consoles. It was T-minus 2 minutes and counting before liftoff on Oct. 5, and the rocket was fueled with liquid oxygen propellant. The mission’s operators were ready to send four astronauts to the International Space Station.
Journalists typically are not allowed in the room where SpaceX guides its rockets to space and back to Earth. The company has been operating such missions with increasing frequency; in 2022, SpaceX launched its Falcon 9 rockets 61 times, and sometimes multiple rockets the same day or on consecutive days. It is a cadence that is among the engineering feats that have transformed an industry and made SpaceX a central player in American spaceflight. And the company was attempting something it had never done: launching three missions in under 31 hours.
As it worked toward this goal, SpaceX allowed me to be in Mission Control for a couple of days in October to observe a sequence of launches, landings, dockings and deployments.
The rocket company and its 10,000 employees soared to new heights week after week in 2022, presenting what appeared to be a parallel universe governed by precision as chaos roiled the other ventures of Elon Musk, its founder and CEO.
After buying Twitter, Musk became absorbed in efforts to overturn the social network’s content moderation rules, then temporarily suspended some journalists from the site after they reported on an account that tracks the location of his private jet. The mayhem at Twitter has spilled over into Tesla, an electric carmaker that is a key source of Musk’s extraordinary wealth.
And SpaceX employees have not been spared from Musk’s gravitational pull. In November, eight former SpaceX employees filed unfair-labor-practice charges with the National Labor Relations Board, claiming they were fired illegally after writing an open letter calling Musk a “distraction and embarrassment,” and lamenting his response to a report that the company had settled a sexual harassment lawsuit against him.
But those problems felt far away in Mission Control, where one crew member tabbed between 12 open windows on his screens. Meanwhile, at a console on the front row, Gwynne Shotwell, president and chief operating officer of SpaceX and known for keeping the company stable, scanned the overhead display, pointed and whispered to an employee next to her. It was time for the rocket and its astronauts to fly on a mission called Crew-5.
Watching a rocket launch is a deafening, visceral experience. But Mission Control has a librarylike silence.
Over the radio, the Crew-5 range coordinator counted down: “Ten, nine, eight …,” but he was drowned out by the SpaceX workers on the other side of the glass, shouting in full New Year’s Eve mode.
Almost in unison, the mission operations crew reached forward and turned up the volume on their headsets to hear over the racket.
On the big screen, a column of fire separated the Falcon 9 rocket from Earth. It glided upward, cheered by the people who built it. But no one stood and celebrated inside Mission Control. Nor did their focus waver as the crowd behind cheered each step in the rocket’s planned sequence. Inside the room, they studied charts and compared launch data.
Twelve minutes after lifting off, the Crew Dragon Endurance spacecraft and its four astronauts detached from the rocket’s second stage, setting off at more than 27,000 kilometers per hour to catch up with the space station.
Back on the ground at SpaceX, the work had only just begun. Over the next 31 hours, the astronauts had to arrive at and dock with the space station, and two more rockets needed to carry a bevy of satellites to orbit.
—
Reusable rockets on rapid launch cadences are now so normal that it is hard to remember how absurd the idea once seemed. In 1999, the founder of a dot-com startup called Zip2, Elon Musk, came into “some resources to do interesting things” when he sold his business for $300 million. Two years later, the same executive, Musk, then 31, increased his fortune when eBay bought PayPal, of which he was the majority shareholder.
Musk had aspirations to land humans on Mars. Finding American launch vehicles absurdly expensive, he established Space Exploration Technologies Corp, better known as SpaceX. The key to undercutting competition, he eventually realized, was rocket reusability. In the concept SpaceX would achieve, the rocket would fly its payload to space, then land on Earth upright — essentially a launch in reverse.
Today, Falcon 9 rockets and Dragon capsules are the workhorses of NASA, the Defense Department and private spaceflight. Many SpaceX employees are animated by a fervor for Musk’s vision: They want to play a role in permanently putting humans on Mars and making humanity a “multiplanetary species,” as Musk puts it. SpaceX launches and landings, once bordering on magic, have become predictable, if not monotonous. But SpaceX employees sometimes bristle at the idea that the company’s launches have become routine.
And it’s not about only Mars. NASA has pinned on SpaceX its hopes for landing astronauts on the moon, as part of the Artemis program. Both efforts will rely on Starship, a reusable stainless steel spacecraft, and the Super Heavy booster.
The program to build that spacecraft is being run by Shotwell, an engineer who joined SpaceX in 2002, the year it was founded, and was promoted to president of the company in 2008, becoming responsible for executing it by running day-to-day operations and strategic partnerships. Shotwell is often credited with helping drive many of its most significant achievements. She defended Musk to the company’s employees after the sexual harassment claim emerged, and she shares Musk’s multiplanetary vision.
“The advantage that SpaceX has — even over Tesla — is Gwynne Shotwell,” said Casey Dreier, senior space policy adviser of The Planetary Society, an organization that advocates for space exploration. “She plays the key role as the steady and profoundly competent hand at SpaceX that keeps it winning contracts, producing as demanded and then channeling Musk’s energy.”
For all of SpaceX’s achievements, the privately held company’s accounting is murky to the public, said Pierre Lionnet, research and managing director of Eurospace, a nonprofit devoted to studying the space industry.
“Nobody really knows anything about the financials of SpaceX,” said Lionnet. “No balance sheet or financial report is available. We have a very large company of 10,000 people — a main contractor to NASA and the Defense Department — and there is absolutely no information available on its financial health.”
In 2020, investment bank Morgan Stanley assessed the value of SpaceX at $100 billion, and its Starship rocket alone as an $11 billion business. Regular Starship flights, Morgan Stanley said, would make Starlink, SpaceX’s high-speed internet from space service, profitable.
—
Seven hours after the liftoff of Crew-5, another Falcon 9 stood on a launchpad at Vandenberg Space Force Base, three hours northwest of Los Angeles and much closer to SpaceX’s headquarters. The primary Mission Control facility was still monitoring the astronauts’ journey, so a second team worked in an adjacent, much smaller Mission Control center.
The client for Oct. 5’s second launch was SpaceX itself — the flight would carry 52 of the company’s Starlink internet satellites to orbit. SpaceX currently has 3,200 of the satellites in space, with the goal of launching about 39,000 more in the coming years.
The rocket launched and its booster touched down on a ship in the Pacific. One hour later, a video stream from space showed the Starlink satellites deploying from the rocket’s upper stage. With Earth in the background, they drifted outward in a manner more like “2001: A Space Odyssey” than “Star Wars.”
—
The afternoon of Oct. 6, the team in the primary Mission Control monitored the Crew-5 mission that had launched 29 hours earlier. The astronauts in the Crew Dragon capsule had reached the International Space Station and were preparing to dock.
Human spaceflight is by far SpaceX’s most expensive and challenging activity.
“When you are sending people into space, you cannot err,” said William Gerstenmaier, vice president of build and flight reliability at SpaceX. Before joining the company in 2020, he worked at NASA for four decades. “I’ve been through two tragedies in my past career, on both Challenger and Columbia. Those are devastating to me personally, and I don’t want to ever experience that again.”
When the astronauts of Crew-5 mission arrived at the space station, their Dragon capsule used laser range finders called Dragon Eyes to guide the spacecraft during docking.
That Oct. 6’s arrival went off without major hitches. The process was so slow, the operators so quiet, that except for a report of “Docking complete,” it was nearly impossible to know what had just happened or when the process was, in fact, complete.
Hawthorne Mission Control had managed two launches and one docking in just over a day, with one launch to go.
—
Almost 31 hours after Crew 5 launched, 24 hours after Starlink lifted off and an hour after the space station docking, the team in Mission Control was ready for yet another takeoff. SpaceX was about to set a commercial spaceflight record.
But seconds before liftoff, two mission operators, silent otherwise, began to mumble a little louder than the rest, typed and clicked, and one pointed at the screen.
“Launch abort has started.”
“Abort.”
On screen, a button labeled “GSW” flashed red. One labeled “PROP 1” flashed yellow.
“Cryo bottle pressure,” said an operator.
“Leak — that’s my guess.”
The rocket made the decision. It wasn’t ready.
Ten minutes later, Musk offered a report on Twitter. “Tiny helium leak (just barely triggered abort), but we take no risks with customer satellites.”
Forty-eight hours later, the rocket launched, deployed the satellites and landed successfully. Almost routine, but not quite. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Space exploration; Sexual harassment; Moon; Employees; Space stations; Astronauts; Rockets; Mars; Engineers

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Musk, Elon

Company / organization: Name: International Space Station; NAICS: 927110; Name: Morgan Stanley; NAICS: 523150, 523920; Name: Department of Defense; NAICS: 928110; Name: National Aeronautics & Space Administration--NASA; NAICS: 927110; Name: Space Exploration Technologies Corp; NAICS: 336414, 336415

Identifier / keyword: United States; Los Angeles (Calif); National Labor Relations Board; Paypal; Ebay Inc; Planetary Society; United States Space Force; Musk, Elon; Defense Department; California; Florida; Morgan Stanley; Hawthorne (Calif); Twitter; Tesla Motors Inc; National Aeronautics And Space Administration; Shotwell, Gwynne; Space Exploration Technologies Corp; Starlink Satellite Constellation (Spacex); Satellites; Organized Labor; Mars (Planet); Columbia (Space Shuttle); Headphones And Headsets; Steel And Iron; Banking And Financial Institutions; Engineering And Engineers; Social Media; Start Ups; Appointments And Executive Changes; Rocket Science And Propulsion; Stocks And Bonds; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Computers And The Internet; Earth; Sexual Harassment; Corporations; Workplace Hazards And Violations; International Space Station; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Labor And Jobs; Airlines And Airplanes; Space And Astronomy

Title: 31 Hours Inside SpaceX Mission Control

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 2, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-02 @ 19:20

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2760007962

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/31-hours-inside-spacex-mission-control/docview/2760007962/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Turning the Page on 2022: A Few of the Most Illuminating Reads: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mattu, Ravi; Warner, Bernhard; Kessler, Sarah; Gandel, Stephen; Michael J. De La Merced; Hirsch, Lauren; Livni, Ephrat

Publication info: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mattu, Ravi; Warner, Bernhard; Kessler, Sarah; Gandel, Stephen; et al. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/turning-page-on-2022-few-most-illuminating-reads/docview/2759904333/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A selection of the best business books of the year, a few tips from readers and the titles DealBook looks forward to reading in 2023.
CHIP WAR: The Fight for the World's Most Critical Technology, by Chris Miller
The tiny semiconductor has played a huge role in the development of modern technology since its invention in the 1950s by an engineer at Texas Instruments. Chips power everything from personal computers to cellphones and fighter jets, and sit at the frontline in a growing battle between the U.S. and China.
Mr. Miller, an associate professor of international history at Tufts University, writes that governments are in a race to control the next wave of development. American officials, industry leaders and academics worry that the U.S. lags China and is vulnerable to Beijing's growing threats toward Taiwan, home to the world's biggest chip-maker, TSMC. The Biden administration has introduced sweeping bans on Chinese access to high-end technologies that it doesn't produce itself and sought to boost domestic manufacturing with $ 52 billion in subsidies and tax credits for global manufacturers that set up operations in the U.S.
Mr. Miller's timely book effectively explains the growing battle over a crucial industry, including accounts of the scientists who created the semiconductor, the process of offshoring manufacturing to Asia from the U.S., the rise of China, and more recent American-led efforts to wrest back control.
Read The Times's review of "Chip War" here .
THE POWER LAW: Venture Capital and the Making of the New Future, by Sebastian Mallaby
Mr. Mallaby chronicled the history of hedge funds in his acclaimed 2010 book "More Money Than God" and wrote a well-received biography of the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan six years later, "The Man Who Knew."
Now, he's set his sights on the venture capital industry in this meticulously researched account of a sector that has revolutionized investment and helped power the Silicon Valley-led tech revolution. The book is named for the distribution of returns in an industry focused on grand slams. Rather than returns that fit into an even bell curve, a few bets wildly outperform the rest, in some cases with one of a firm's investments outperforming the remainder of its portfolio.
Mr. Mallaby argues that the creation of the venture capital industry has led to a Cambrian explosion of innovation, and that these investors circulate ideas like bees pollinating flowers in a garden. The book offers a satisfying look at how the sausage is made at some of the most powerful investment firms on the planet.
Read The Times's review of "The Power Law" here .
POWER FAILURE: The Rise and Fall of an American Icon, by William D. Cohan
General Electric was once America's most valuable and important company. It made and sold everything from light bulbs and jet engines to TV shows and insurance, making it a fixture of American life. Fast forward to 2021, when its C.E.O., Larry Culp, announced the company would be broken up into three separate units after years of underperformance and you get a sense of its changing fortunes.
Mr. Cohan, a writer and founding partner at Puck and a former investment banker, charts the history of G.E. in this well-researched and compelling book. Through extensive interviews with executives including Jack Welch, the totemic C.E.O. from 1981-2001 who drove its expansion, and archival research, Mr. Cohan suggests the fall wasn't inevitable. But personal ambition and feuds hastened G.E.'s undoing, providing a useful case study for any corporate leader.
INFLUENCE EMPIRE: The Story of Tencent & China's Tech Ambition, by Lulu Chen
When Elon Musk teased that he might turn Twitter into the "everything app," what did he have in mind? WeChat, the dominant platform in China that is used for tasks as varied as messaging and shopping, gaming and livestreaming, is a plausible model (as Mr. Musk noted in a podcast soon after agreeing to buy Twitter). "If you're in China, it's basically, you kind of live on WeChat -- it does everything. It's sort of like Twitter, plus PayPal, plus a whole bunch of other things. And all rolled into one with actually a great interface."
Tencent, the company behind the ubiquitous app, rarely opens itself up to journalists or scrutiny, which makes Ms. Chen's exploration of its extraordinary rise to become China's biggest tech group and most important private company all the more vital. The Shenzhen-based business founded by Pony Ma has deftly navigated an increasingly difficult political environment, even as higher-profile rivals like Alibaba's Jack Ma have been forced to largely disappear from public view after criticizing the Chinese authorities.
More than a corporate hagiography, Ms. Chen's book offers insight into the company via executive interviews and exclusive details.
THE BOND KING: How One Man Made a Market, Built an Empire, and Lost It All, by Mary Childs
Ms. Childs, a co-host of NPR's Planet Money, recounts the extraordinary career of Bill Gross, a founder of the investment firm PIMCO who helped revolutionize the world of bond investing. Mr. Gross helped build the company into a $ 2 trillion behemoth, a process that earned him the nickname "the bond king" and a fortune.
But Mr. Gross's leadership was contentious. He clashed with colleagues, including Mohamed El-Erian, the economist he helped employ as C.E.O. who eventually quit in 2014. Mr. Gross himself was pushed out shortly afterward and was soon hired at Janus Henderson, a smaller rival, where he wasn't able to replicate his earlier success and retired in 2019.
Ms. Childs spent hours speaking with Mr. Gross and has produced a vivid account of his extraordinary career.
Read DealBook's conversation with Childs about Mr. Gross and "The Bond King" here .
FREEZING ORDER: A True Story of Money Laundering, Murder, and Surviving Vladimir Putin's Wrath, by Bill Browder
Bill Browder, a British American financier, was once one of the biggest foreign investors in Russia. He made a fortune after the collapse of communism through his Moscow-based hedge fund Hermitage Capital Management, investing in undervalued companies, driving up the share price and selling. But after pushing back against corruption, Mr. Browder liquidated his fund and left the country -- and became one of President Vladimir Putin's biggest enemies.
Mr. Browder has been a vocal critic of Putin ever since, and in 2009, Sergei Magnitsky, his tax lawyer, exposed a multimillion-dollar fraud by government officials. Mr. Magnitsky was arrested and died in prison nearly a year later, but Mr. Browder has used his name to maintain pressure on the regime. In 2012, Congress passed the Magnitsky Act, allowing officials to punish those suspected of abusing human rights, including by limiting travel and freezing their assets.
"Freezing Order," Mr. Browder's second book, tells the story of how he was targeted after leaving Russia, alleging that he has been the subject of honey traps, chased through cities, had allies based in Russia murdered, and attacked by leading politicians and top lawyers in the west.
Read DealBook's conversation with Mr. Browder about Russia here .
Reader favorites from 2022
BUILD: An Unorthodox Guide to Making Things Worth Making, by Tony Fadell
"Build," a book by Mr. Fadell, a former Apple and Google executive, was an incredibly useful, practical and inspiring "Bible" for builders like me. What I loved about it, surprisingly, was that there was nothing in it that I didn't already "know" but there was plenty in there that I don't regularly do.
The best part about it is that it's delivered in such an open, honest, straightforward manner, without any conceit or preachiness.
I recommend it to everyone I work with (and work for).
-B.H.
SLOUCHING TOWARDS UTOPIA: An Economic History of the Twentieth Century, by J. Bradford DeLong
A masterful analysis of the extended 20th century (1870-2020) U.S. economy, by the former Treasury official now at the University of California, Berkeley.
-K.P.
The New York Times' opinion columnist Ezra Klein spoke to Mr. DeLong in a recent podcast. Listen here .
HOW TO STAND UP TO A DICTATOR: The Fight for Our Future, by Maria Ressa
Ms. Ressa, a Filipino American journalist and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, set her sights on how to get things done and stuck to it through thick and thin, inspiring others along the way.
-V.B.
What we're looking forward to reading in 2023
THE CREATIVE ACT: A Way of Being, by Rick Rubin
Mr. Rubin, the famed music producer, has worked with some of the world's biggest artists, including the Beastie Boys, Johnny Cash, Run-DMC, the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Adele. His first book offers lessons on how to get the most out of musicians and creative types.
THE CRISIS OF DEMOCRATIC CAPITALISM, by Martin Wolf
The fraying relationship between liberal democracy and capitalism is the subject of the latest book by Mr. Wolf, the chief economics commentator at The Financial Times, who rejects the view that each would be better off untethered from the other. Instead, he offers a robust defense of democratic capitalism as the most productive political and economic system, and vitally important for all of us.
QUANTUM SUPREMACY: How Quantum Computers Will Unlock the Mysteries of Science -- and Usher In a New Quantum Era, by Michio Kaku
Mr. Kaku, the theoretical physicist and author of the best seller "The God Equation," delves into the world of quantum computing for his latest book, seeking to explain a new technology with the potential to reveal the deepest secrets of science and help solve some of humanity's thorniest problems.
FLYING GREEN: On the Frontiers of New Aviation, by Christopher de Bellaigue
Boeing's decision to shelve the 747 jumbo jet this year is emblematic of a broader shift, as the industry looks to develop more sustainable ways of air travel. Mr. de Bellaigue meets the innovators, businesses and entrepreneurs at the cutting edge of reinventing the way we fly.
We'd like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to dealbook@nytimes.com.
Photograph Business books from 2022 included timely reading on the chip industry, the trials of a foreign investor in Russia, and China's tech ambitions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZACK DEZON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Semiconductors; Hedge funds; Power; Books; Executives; Venture capital; Filipino Americans; Manufacturing; Capitalism

Business indexing term: Subject: Hedge funds Executives Venture capital Manufacturing Capitalism

Location: Russia; United States--US; China

People: Putin, Vladimir

Company / organization: Name: WeChat; NAICS: 516210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/29/business/dealbook/turning-the-page-on-2022.html

Title: Turning the Page on 2022: A Few of the Most Illuminating Reads:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 2, 2023

column: Dealbook Newsletter

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2759904333

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/turning-page-on-2022-few-most-illuminating-reads/docview/2759904333/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions