____________________________________________________________

Best Songs of 2024: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Pareles, Jon; Caramanica, Jon; Zoladz, Lindsay

Publication info: Pareles, Jon; Caramanica, Jon; Zoladz, Lindsay. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/best-songs-2024/docview/3148793447/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Listen to 68 tracks that made major statements, boosted big beefs, propelled up-and-comers and soundtracked the party this year.
Jon Pareles | Jon Caramanica | Lindsay Zoladz
A Little Strife, a Lot of Rhythm
Here's a dipperful of worthwhile tracks from the ocean of music released this year. The top of my list is big-statement songs, ones that had repercussions beyond how they sound. Below those, it's not a ranking but a playlist, a more-or-less guided cruise through what 2024 sounded like for one avid listener. I didn't include any songs from my list of top albums, which are worth hearing from start to finish. But in the multiverse of streaming music, there are plenty of other possibilities.
1. Kendrick Lamar, 'Not Like Us'
Belligerent, accusatory and as tribalistic as its title, "Not Like Us" wasn't an attack ad from the 2024 election. It was the coup de grâce of Kendrick Lamar's beef with Drake, a rapid-fire, sneering assault on multiple fronts. Its spirit dovetailed with a bitterly contentious 2024.
2. Beyoncé, 'Texas Hold 'Em'
"Texas Hold 'Em" isn't just an invocation of Beyoncé's home state. It's a toe-tapping taunt at the racial and musical assumptions behind country music as defined by record labels and radio stations. Rhiannon Giddens picks an oh-so-traditional claw-hammer banjo intro and Beyoncé -- raised in Texas -- promises "a real-life boogie and a real-life hoedown," singing about drinking and dancing and daring gatekeepers to hold her back.
3. Sabrina Carpenter, 'Please Please Please'
Comedy is tricky in a straight-faced song, but Sabrina Carpenter's eye-roll comes clearly through the shiny pop of "Please Please Please." The singer tries to placate and possibly tame a boyfriend who sounds more obnoxious in every verse. "I beg you, don't embarrass me," she coos; eventually she reaches a breaking point.
4. Shaboozey, 'Good News'
"A Bar Song (Tipsy)" was Shaboozey's billion-streaming 2024 smash about drinking and dancing through hard times. "Good News," a follow-up, took away even those temporary consolations. It's got no whiskey brand placement, no girls -- just guitar-strumming, handclaps and the unmitigated despair in Shaboozey's growl.
5. Mavis Staples, 'Worthy'
At 85, Mavis Staples is still preaching positive thinking. "Worthy," written and produced by a team including MNDR, harnesses the funk of Prince and James Brown -- with a few flickers of 21st-century electronic glitch -- to insist on one of Staples's lifelong themes: respect yourself.
6. Mdou Moctar, 'Funeral for Justice'
The hurtling beat and frenetic Tuareg-rock guitar riff of "Funeral for Justice" carry lyrics that indict African leaders for ceding control of rights and resources. The specifics may not cross the language barrier, but the urgency does.
7. The Smile, 'Eyes & Mouth'
With two albums in 2024 alone, the Smile -- Thom Yorke, Jonny Greenwood and the drummer Tom Skinner -- has been busily compensating for Radiohead's long silence. "Eyes & Mouth" has a choppy, funky beat and jagged guitar lines that climb and descend like staircases in an M.C. Escher drawing, while Yorke sings -- cryptically, of course -- about dissociation and dissolution.
8. Leon Bridges, 'Peaceful Place'
Leon Bridges, a singer steeped in the vintage soul of Sam Cooke and Marvin Gaye, embraces the grooves of Nigerian juju and Afrobeat in "Peaceful Place," an extended sigh of relief sandwiched between pentatonic guitar melodies.
9. Flo, 'Caught Up'
The three women in Flo smoothly warn a boyfriend not to stir up "trust issues." Then they kick him out after his stated whereabouts don't match the receipts they have in hand. With creamy harmonies over a suave sample of a jazz guitar run, they eviscerate him smoothly and mercilessly.
10. Tyla, 'Safer'
The hollow, slightly foreboding beat of amapiano makes an ideal backdrop for the South African songwriter Tyla in "Safer." She has escaped a toxic romance only to be tempted by a new one: "As bad as I want you, I know that it's danger," she sings. This time, it sounds like she might heed the warning signs.
11. Kacey Musgraves, 'Deeper Well'
Kacey Musgraves offers the gentlest but firmest rebuff to people whose "dark energy" she no longer puts up with. "Deeper Well" cushions the rejection with thoughts about maturity and self-care in a cozy, fingerpicking, Laurel Canyon-style ballad, but her boundaries are clear.
12. Laura Marling, 'Patterns'
Laura Marling contemplates motherhood and the age-old, ever-expanding reach of generations, envisioning children as a "flock of birds" who are part of a never-ending pattern. The song begins with folky fingerpicking and widens with string orchestration and vocal harmonies, as if it's rippling outward through time.
13. FKA twigs, 'Eusexua'
FKA twigs has defined her coinage, "Eusexua," as "the pinnacle of human experience." But in the song, it sounds fraught and fleeting, with her most whispery soprano accompanied by a ghostly four-on-a-floor beat and nervous staccato blips. The beat strengthens and focuses as she promises, "You're not alone," but then it falls away, stranding her in electronic limbo.
14. Norah Jones, 'Staring at the Wall'
A relaxed but insistent backbeat and a twangy guitar carry Norah Jones through paradoxes -- philosophical, theological, economic, romantic, psychological -- that she gets through with a dulcet howl: "Ah-whoo."
15. Joy Oladokun, 'Drugs'
It seems lighthearted at first, with a hand-clapping gospel choir joining the complaint that "I can't get high." But then come larger problems; Joy Oladokun sings that she's been "running on empty and calling it strength," and she can't numb herself anymore.
16. Usher featuring Pheelz, 'Ruin'
"You ruined me for everybody," Usher laments over an Afrobeats track produced by Pheelz, who also adds a brief rap. He sings about feeling broken, angry, sleepless and full of regrets -- but even in his misery, he humble-brags about all the other women waiting to console him.
17. Nia Archives, 'Unfinished Business'
The English songwriter Nia Archives often uses a double-time jungle beat to turn a straightforward pop tune into something more nervy and insistent. In "Unfinished Business," she comes to realize that her lover is still involved with someone else. Rationalizing that "nobody comes with a clean slate" doesn't bring her peace of mind.
18. St. Vincent, 'Flea'
St. Vincent -- the songwriter Annie Clark -- knows how to work a metaphor. She seizes an insectoid perspective in "Flea," from her brawny, guitar-forward album "All Born Screaming." A string of hefty, distorted power-trio riffs slams behind her as she savors a bug's instinctual urges, singing, "I look at you and all I see is meat."
19. Jade Bird featuring Mura Masa, 'Burn the Hard Drive'
Digital photos only remind the narrator of romantic memories that she'd rather forget. So she wants to "Burn the Hard Drive." The tune is a waltz, but the drumbeat is a syncopated 4/4, while the bass line navigates by hopping between them, trying to pretend there's no ambivalence.
20. Phosphorescent, 'Revelator'
Here's some countrypolitan desolation, with a full band, a string section and a pedal steel guitar. The singer and songwriter Matthew Houck, who records as Phosphorescent, musters grand forces to sing about utter isolation: no partner, no city, no creativity, no hope.
21. Mustafa, 'Old Life'
The modal picking of Arabic oud music courses through "Old Life" from Mustafa, a Canadian songwriter with Sudanese roots. He sings to someone who once shared his secrets and travails, wondering what's left of their bond and mourning a separation he knows is final.
22. Saya Gray, 'AA Bouquet for Your 180 Face'
Saya Gray knows she's better off after a breakup, but she's still counting days. Her seesawing ambivalence is captured in a track that morphs from minimal electronics to arena-rock to hints of psychedelia.
23. Kamasi Washington, 'Prologue'
The saxophonist, composer and jazz community-builder Kamasi Washington concluded his 2024 album, "Fearless Movement," with "Prologue," pushing a large ensemble to go absolutely full-tilt. Hyperactive percussion paces a resolutely rising melody that spurs breakneck solos, racing forward to look ahead.
24. A.G. Cook, 'Silver Thread Golden Needle'
There are sampled human voices -- or are they simulated? -- in this 10-minute track from the hyperpop pioneer who also collaborated on Charli XCX's all-conquering album, "Brat." The rest is synthetic and propulsive, working in two-bar phrases that repeat and evolve -- pushing, pushing, pushing all the way through.
25. Djrum, 'Codex'
Djrum -- Felix Manuel -- unleashes a head-spinning assortment of physical and synthetic percussion in "Codex," a propulsive song with a ghostly core. There are fragments of melody and sudden microdoses of syncopation, but this seven-minute track rarely repeats a pattern, and it hurtles ahead as much on its silences as its sounds.
Drilling Down to the Heart of the Matter
Around any corner -- every corner, in fact -- there is greatness. It might be just a minute or two of an unexpected combination of sounds; it might be an artist whittling down a finely honed style one song at a time; it might be a hidden ocean of a sound that's bubbling just out of earshot. Some of this year's best songs were the loudest in the room, yes, but many more arrived via far stranger pathways. Whether or not they presage a broader stylistic sea change, they pushed the boundaries of greatness ever so slightly, and enough to leave an impression. (In order to spread the wealth, I'm only including songs that aren't on albums that made my best of the year list.)
1. A tie for: Cash Cobain and Bay Swag featuring Ice Spice, ' Fisherrr ' (remix); Cash Cobain, ' Dunk Contest '; Cash Cobain and Laila! featuring Fabolous, Kenzo B, Big Sean, Lay Bankz, Luh Tyler, Anycia, Chow Lee, Kaliii, 6lack, Flo Milli, YN Jay, Flee, Don Q and Rob49, ' Problem '; (remix); Cash Cobain featuring J. Cole, ' Grippy '; A Boogie Wit da Hoodie featuring Cash Cobain, ' Body '; Don Toliver featuring Charlie Wilson and Cash Cobain, ' Attitude '
There was one sound that will, decades from now, immediately be identifiable with the summer of 2024: the blurry, speedy, sleazy bump of the producer and rapper Cash Cobain. His take on sexy drill moved the genre into casually erotic territory that merged the liberatory impulses of disco, the sultry throb of speed garage and the caustic and explicit language of Miami bass into a sound that somehow still felt as frictive as any of the roughest street-corner tough talk. It was an intoxicating and convincing blend -- when outsiders like Ice Spice or J. Cole showed up to the party, they performed on his terms, not their own. When one of Cobain's songs was going viral, a dozen rappers -- including New York's stalwart remix king Fabolous -- hopped on an extended version, not wanting to miss out. Melodists like Don Toliver and A Boogie Wit da Hoodie immediately understood his sound was flexible enough to accommodate their flutters. Amid it all, Cobain was a calm presence -- he created the sound, he set the template to rap on it, and he never relented.
2. Kendrick Lamar, ' Not Like Us '; Drake, ' Family Matters '; Kendrick Lamar, ' Meet the Grahams '; Drake, ' The Heart Part 6 '
"Not Like Us" is the hit, and rightly so -- it is a carnival of ill intent, the sound of a festive funeral. For many, that's the Drake-Kendrick beef in full -- one heat-seeking, chart-topping, reputation slandering missile. An assassin and a victim. But over the weeks that this squabble played out in the spring, what jumped out most loudly was just how personally damaging the allegations each man lodged against the other were. This was something beyond a rap battle: This was a tug of war of morals, a (debatably true) dossier dump. And most pungently, a game of chicken determining who'd break character first, and in so doing, acknowledge the existence of the character in the first place. It was bloodless but brutal; months later, the bruises remain everywhere.
3. NewJeans, 'Supernatural'
Why anyone would want to get in the way of the most stylistically impressive K-pop group of the past few years making tremendous, nostalgically precise and modernly sophisticated songs like this one is beyond me.
4. Addison Rae, 'Diet Pepsi'
The most saccharine whisper of the year, this smolderer is the aural embodiment of tasteful restraint.
5. GloRilla, 'TGIF'; GloRilla featuring Megan Thee Stallion and Cardi B, 'Wanna Be' (remix); GloRilla with Sexyy Red, 'Whatchu Kno About Me'; GloRilla, 'Yeah Glo!'
A refreshingly old-fashioned rapper, GloRilla raps with the strength and sturdiness of rebar and structures her rhymes as efficiently as a factory production line. Every exultation is a hook, every hook is an incitement to revelry.
6. Tommy Richman, 'Million Dollar Baby'
Hard, neck-snapping modern funk from a trained opera singer with a wild range and a cleverly rhythmic approach to singing. Its cool howl was the year's defining sound on TikTok.
7. Chappell Roan, 'Good Luck, Babe!'
It would have been a hit in 1969. It would have been a hit in 1985. It would have been a hit in 2008.
8. Playboi Carti featuring Travis Scott, 'Backr00ms'; Camila Cabello featuring Playboi Carti, 'I Luv It'
Rap's greatest procrastinator Playboi Carti hasn't released an album in four years. In part, that's because he's picking up new flows, tossing off YouTube loosies, making cryptic guest appearances and dressing for bondage-themed raves. As a matter of fact, as these extravagantly strange collaborations demonstrate, that's more than enough. No worries about the album, then.
9. Ian, 'Figure It Out'
Sometimes when hip-hop shifts toward something new, it can sound like a lurch, or a sputter. Which is to say that it's the oddness of this song that makes it so intriguing -- the astral production that at times sounds as if it's moving in reverse, the haltingly coughed lyrics, the bold gleam of untested boasts and the lightly hasty way in which they're all thrown together. If it was more organized, it would be less successful.
10. 2hollis, 'Jeans'
A monstrous rattle, then a digitally cool seduction, then a crashing wave of ecstasy, then a wholly different sort of monstrous rattle. A summit meeting of a dozen great ideas.
11. Shaboozey, 'A Bar Song (Tipsy)'
For 19 weeks, this was the No. 1 song in the country, which means that those who seek to artificially keep hip-hop and country apart are foolish, and also that J-Kwon's "Tipsy" was woefully undervalued by the nostalgia machine.
12. Evilgiane featuring xaviersobased and Nettspend, '40'
A reminder that the only thing more thrilling than one mischievous edge-pusher working without a net is two, or three.
13. NLE Choppa, 'Slut Me Out 2'
A genuinely free record from NLE Choppa. Free of anxiety about making a sequel sound like the original. Free of the pressures of good taste. Free of the need to remain fixed to genre, or mood, or attitude. Free of what a censor might think. So free, in fact, that it verges upon pure joy -- chaotic and silly and so campy that it's not actually campy at all.
And 17 more:
21 Savage, "Redrum"; Aespa, "Whiplash"; Bizarrap and Young Miko, "BZRP Music Sessions, Vol. 58"; Central Cee and Lil Baby, "Band4Band"; Dee Billz, Kyle Richh and Kai Swervo featuring. KJ Swervo, "Beckham"; Jelly Roll, "I Am Not Okay"; Anella Herim featuring Chase Matthew, "Tennessee Love Song" (remix); Illit, "Magnetic"; Katseye, "Touch"; MC Menor JP, "Menina de Vermelho" (original TikTok audio); Ole 60, "Thoughts of You"; Post Malone featuring Morgan Wallen, "I Had Some Help"; SahBabii, "Lost All My Feelings"; Ayra Starr, "Commas"; Tinashe, "Nasty"; Waxahatchee featuring MJ Lenderman, "Right Back to It"; Xavi, "La Diabla" (late 2023 exemption)
Embracing the Unexpected
Judging from this list of songs that caught my ear in 2024, I most appreciated the moments when pop musicians stretched the boundaries of their form and got a little weird -- and the moments when more outré musicians weren't afraid to go a little pop. For a change this year, I didn't repeat any material that appeared on my albums list here. In general, this list represents the music I thought worked best as singles -- and very often, singles I had on repeat.
1. Sabrina Carpenter, ' Espresso ,' ' Please Please Please ' and ' Taste '
Sabrina Carpenter's consecutive trio of star-making hits packed the year's most potent 1-2-3 punch, each showcasing a different facet of her musical personality. First came the frothy "Espresso," an endlessly quotable pop confection chock-full of playful winks. She followed it up with the even more impressive "Please Please Please," a gloriously synthetic mid-tempo synth gem that balanced pathos and humor with flair. And then came "Taste," a slick, double-entendre-laden slice of glossy pop-country that flirted with both opposing sides of a love triangle. Varied as they are, each of these songs demonstrated Carpenter's refreshing knack for infusing familiar pop structures with irreverent humor, interesting sonic details and her own oddball personality.
2. Charli XCX featuring Lorde, ' Girl, So Confusing Featuring Lorde '
Packed with insight, vulnerability and sudden revelation, Charli XCX and Lorde's remix of "Girl, So Confusing" is a three-and-a-half-minute electro-pop banger that plays out like an hourlong couples therapy session in hyper fast-forward: "She believed my projection, and now I totally get it," concludes Lorde, the elusive rumored subject of the track's original solo version, which appeared on Charli's ubiquitous "Brat." Charli deserves credit for initiating with such honesty, and the producer A.G. Cook keeps things moving with an effervescent buzz, but it's Lorde's verse that elevates this one into the stratosphere. Here's to working it out on the remix, and to Lorde's next LP.
3. Jade, ' Angel of My Dreams '
"Hey Mike, let's do something crazy," the former Little Mix singer Jade Thirlwall suggests to her producer at the beginning of her debut solo single. Do they ever. From its brief, warped opening sample of Sandie Shaw's 1967 Eurovision winner "Puppet on a String" to its startling, thrill-ride tempo changes, "Angel of My Dreams" overflows with outré-pop ideas and a manic maximalism; it sounds like every great early Lady Gaga song thrown in a blender switched on high, with some extra fairy dust sprinkled on top for garnish. (If piano ballads are more your thing, try the "S.A.D." version -- which stands, with a wink, for "Slow. Angelic. Dramatic.")
4. Billie Eilish, ' Birds of a Feather '
Musically, it's the brightest thing pop's princess of darkness Billie Eilish has released yet: tender, fluttering vocals, a chirping, ascending synthesizer riff, and lyrics about wanting to be together for life. Listen more closely, though, and it's still quintessentially Eilish: a love song full of graves, caskets, blue corpses and an omnipresent fear of death. Still, "Birds of a Feather" ultimately lets go enough to let the light win, neutralizing its anxieties with luminous melody and an overwhelming wash of bliss.
5. Father John Misty, ' Mahashmashana '
Josh Tillman, the singer-songwriter who records as Father John Misty, has long made music that poses existential questions about humanity, though he often punctured its loftiness with continuous and occasionally excessive pricks of irony, cleverness and self-aware wit. The majestic, nine-and-a-half-minute title track from his excellent sixth album shows how he has gradually refined his approach and matured into a different and even more evocative songwriter. His lines are still funny -- a group of characters here are "resplendent in donor-class panache" -- but in a more oblique way that leaves room for emotional response and even a genuine sense of spiritual mystery. Arranged with orchestral grandeur and sung with a gradually accumulating fervor, "Mahashmashana" (which takes its name from a Sanskrit word that means "great burial ground") is a surreal swirl of the sacred and the profane that ranks among Tillman's best work.
6. Tommy Richman, ' Million Dollar Baby '
An out-of-time, out-of-nowhere, who-is-that-guy jam that sounds like a lost new jack swing cassingle left to warp in a hot car for 30 years. Tommy Richman's "Million Dollar Baby" is perhaps the year's most convincing argument that TikTok virality is, every so often, governed by the laws of meritocracy. Unfortunately, like many a licensed-to-overplayed-commercial song before, it now just makes me crave chicken wings.
7. Chappell Roan, ' Good Luck, Babe! '
The pop supernova Chappell Roan's only single released in her breakout year, "Good Luck, Babe!" benefited from immaculate timing but also bore evidence of her rapid evolution as a songwriter and performer. The hyperactive, gleefully embellished anthems of her album "The Rise and Fall of a Midwest Princess" give way here to a more considered kind of emotional storytelling, made all the more powerful thanks to Roan's expertly modulated delivery. Though ostensibly a caustic kiss-off to an unfeeling ex, "Good Luck, Babe!" is really a song about someone who refuses to settle and chooses to believe in their own worth -- an experience that Roan has sung about, and now lived, too.
8. Arooj Aftab, ' Raat Ki Rani '
The Pakistani American singer and composer Arooj Aftab augments her naturally Sade-smooth voice with artful Auto-Tune on this mesmerizing standout track, named for a night-blooming flower, from her album "Night Reign."
9. GloRilla, ' TGIF '
This is not one of those blithe, carefree party songs. Oh no -- the stakes are high. The menacing strings, blown-out brass and earthshaking bass all make the beat sound like the soundtrack to the moment in a disaster movie right before the monster appears for the first time. GloRilla raps with utter conviction ("I'm rockin' Off-White, on a off night") matching the intensity of the production and suggesting at every turn that this is certainly no ordinary Friday. Or maybe, goes the song's inherent boast, this is now an ordinary Friday night to GloRilla.
10. Tinashe, ' Nasty '
When Tinashe wondered aloud if somebody was going to match her freak, who could have known it would be a lanky, bespectacled British man with shockingly adequate dance moves? But if the memes are what it took for Tinashe to get another bona fide smash -- a decade after her sublime "2 On," and after years of conflict with her former record label, RCA -- so be it. Oscillating between a sassy deadpan to her candy-coated croon, Tinashe deftly weaves multiple hooks into a single intoxicating track. When stopped by an interviewer at the height of the song's success, she imagined how the people at her former label must be feeling, in quintessential nasty-girl fashion: "I know they're gagging."
11. Magdalena Bay, ' She Looked Like Me! '
The immersive first track of the electro-pop duo Magdalena Bay's epic, heady and occasionally revelatory second LP "Imaginal Disk" condenses the album's sprawl into a compact prologue that explodes with luminous flashes of melody, texture, and singsongy exclamations.
12. Clairo, ' Juna '
The sweetest, dreamiest moment on "Charm," Clairo's album of airy, '70s-cartoon-character pop, innately understands one of love's truest commandments: When it's right, it's easy. "I don't even have to think with you," she sighs in blissful relief, as a pianos plinks angelically in the background. "You know me, and I just might know you, too."
13. St. Vincent, ' Broken Man '
Annie Clark flashes her teeth and sharpens her spikiest edges on this eerily catchy industrial rocker, channeling her inner Trent Reznor and, naturally, getting that much closer to God.
14. Jessica Pratt, ' Life Is '
Enshrouded in an atmosphere as thick and magical as dust dancing in attic sunbeams, the folk singer Jessica Pratt's voice sounds as if it's emanating from a warbling Victrola in an old movie, but provides cozy and immediate comfort in the here and now.
15. Hello Mary, ' 0% '
Uncertainty can be associated with tepidness or even timidity, but on this pummeling track the New York rock trio Hello Mary tap into the frustration and fury of being unsure. "I don't know! I don't know!" the drummer and vocalist Stella Wave shouts over a bracing torrent of noise. This one goes up to 11 percent.
16. Haley Heynderickx, ' Gemini '
A low, fretful acoustic guitar riff accompanies the Oregon folk singer-songwriter Haley Heynderickx's gradually accumulating heap of modern grievances as she's haunted by an ever-present doppelgänger. The twist in this surreal tale, though, is that it's just a former version of herself, reminding the present one to, say, pull over "just to stare at purple clover off the highway" and generally live in the moment. "You know," Heynderickx admits by the end, "I finally begin to feel better."
17. Caroline Polachek, ' Starburned and Unkissed '
On this highlight from the soundtrack of Jane Schoenbrun's hallucinatory film "I Saw the TV Glow," the avant-pop priestess Caroline Polachek evokes the romance of teen angst in an impressionistic swirl of guitar distortion and surreal imagery.
18. Cassandra Jenkins, ' Delphinium Blue '
More pop songs should be about languidly daydreaming while working a quiet shift at the local flower shop.
19. Brittany Howard, ' What Now '
"If you want someone to hate then blame it on me," Brittany Howard practically spits on this wonderfully cathartic post-breakup bloodletting, with her vocal melody echoed by her guitar's buzz saw tones. "I ain't sorry," she adds, as if there were any doubt.
20. Horsegirl, ' 2468 '
Chicago's most historically minded young indie-rock group enters college, and, accordingly, its Raincoats phase; a deliciously off-kilter alternate-universe playground chant ensues.
21. Wishy, ' Love on the Outside '
The Indianapolis shoegaze revivalists stare straight into the sun on this dizzying, warmhearted highlight from their debut album "Triple Seven." Are you down?
22. Maggie Rogers, ' Don't Forget Me '
Her voice hoarse with desperation, the singer-songwriter Maggie Rogers sounds torn between fearing and longing for commitment on her third album's impassioned, gently rocking title track.
23. A.G. Cook, ' Britpop '
As deliriously sugary as jelly beans in a percolator, this title track from the former PC Music producer's 100-minute opus transforms its hypnotic hook into a kaleidoscopic abstraction. Jump! A.G. made it.
Photograph Sabrina Carpenter delivers a sharp message on "Please Please Please." (PHOTOGRAPH BY NINA WESTERVELT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The Canadian songwriter Mustafa looks back at a frayed bond on "Old Life." (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETHANY MOLLENKOF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Father John Misty refined his approach on his latest LP. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4); Kendrick Lamar's "Not Like Us" was a knockout punch in his war of words with Drake and a fixture on best-of lists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY NORRIS/GETTY IMAGES FOR PGLANG, AMAZON MUSIC, & FREE LUNCH); Charli XCX's album "Brat" seemed to be everywhere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SINNA NASSERI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4-C5); Cash Cobain's take on the subgenre drill rap is one of the defining sounds of the year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDRE D. WAGNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The K-pop group NewJeans continued to make stylish, inventive music this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTHONY WALLACE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C4, C5.

Subject: Songwriters; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Archives & records; Hard disks; Singers

Location: Texas; United States--US

People: Jones, Norah; Lamar, Kendrick; Marling, Laura; Musgraves, Kacey; Washington, Kamasi; Bridges, Leon

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/09/arts/music/best-songs-2024.html

Title: Best Songs of 2024:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 24, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3148793447

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/best-songs-2024/docview/3148793447/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Can Wall Street Pressure Ease Brutality in India?: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Rajagopalan, Megha

Publication info: Rajagopalan, Megha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-wall-street-pressure-ease-brutality-india/docview/3147592573/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Pension funds and big investors are pressuring Coca-Cola, Pepsico and others over brutal working conditions in India's cane fields. Some of the sugar buyers are tiptoeing toward change.
The New York City comptroller, who oversees hundreds of billions of dollars in pension investments, is pressuring some of the world's major sugar buyers to stop profiting off child labor, debt bondage and coerced hysterectomies in western India.
The city's pension funds own nearly $ 1 billion in stock in Coca-Cola, Pepsico, Mondelez and others. Those companies, or their franchisees, are among those that buy sugar from the Indian state of Maharashtra. An investigation by The New York Times and The Fuller Project this year revealed a brutal, endemic labor system there -- one that is at times enforced by threat of kidnapping and assault.
"We will bring pressure to bear on the companies we invest in who participate in that system by sourcing their supply from it and by funding it," the New York comptroller, Brad Lander, said in a recent interview.
Mr. Lander is urging companies to work with labor groups in Maharashtra and to demand supply-chain improvements. He has rallied institutional investors including BNP Paribas Asset Management, based in Paris; Sands Capital of Virginia; and the London-based Schroders to do the same. Those firms hold hundreds of millions of dollars in stock in the sugar-buying companies.
The Biden administration is also applying pressure. The State Department has encouraged American companies to use their buying power as leverage to push sugar mills to make changes, according to a State Department official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. Diplomats have also encouraged companies to work with labor unions.
An ethics body that advises Norway's sovereign wealth fund (the world's largest, at about $ 1.8 trillion) is also investigating at least one company in its portfolio, according to people with direct knowledge of the inquiry. The company under investigation is unclear. The fund holds stock in two sugar mill owners, Dalmia Bharat and DCM Shriram, and in a major Pepsico franchisee, Varun Beverages, according to public disclosures.
The U.A.W. Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, a $ 60.5 billion pension fund, signed a letter pushing companies to improve labor practices, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
Some of those who confirmed the efforts spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to reporters or did not want to undermine their outreach to the companies. The banks and investment firms themselves declined to comment.
The moves represent an attempt to pressure companies that, otherwise, face little incentive to change. Sugar is a huge industry in Maharashtra, so buyers and producers alike have tremendous amounts at stake. Indian politicians could pass and enforce labor laws, but they own most sugar mills in Maharashtra and deny or downplay problems.
Abuse is well documented. Female workers are pushed to get hysterectomies to keep working, often to avoid menstruating or becoming pregnant in dangerous, unsanitary conditions. The industry is also rife with child labor. Workers are kept in debt bondage, The Times and The Fuller Project have reported.
The revelations have become a diplomatic issue, too. A group representing cooperative sugar mills in Maharashtra said that it had complained to the U.S. Consulate in the Indian city of Mumbai about "misleading" news reports. The group suggested that there was a conspiracy to discourage companies from buying Maharashtra sugar.
None of the investors are calling for that. Many say they would prefer that corporations keep buying from Maharashtra and pushing for improved labor practices.
But a core issue is that Maharashtra sugar mills pay their laborers through middlemen and reject responsibility for working conditions, minimum wages and other basic rights. Laborers are paid advances that function as loans, often without documentation.
No companies appear to be seeking fundamental change in how workers are recruited and paid. Labor experts say that, until they do, exploitation will continue.
"We would be encouraging companies to provide remedy to workers," said Caroline Boden of Mercy Investment Services, a small asset manager that focuses on socially responsible investing.
There are tentative signs that companies are responding. Here is how some have reacted.
Coca-Cola
The world's largest beverage company has known since at least 2019 that children were cutting sugar for them in Maharashtra and that laborers were working off debts to their employers.
The company said this month that a group it had helped establish would, in January, begin providing at least some cane cutters with first aid, health and safety training. Four mills, including three that Coke buys from, will participate, the company said. The group will also train factory middlemen on wage transparency and seek to formalize contracts with farm workers.
The company also said that it had worked to provide clean water, sanitation and female hygiene products to fieldworkers.
Coke would not say how much money it had invested in those efforts.
Pepsico
Pepsi said this spring that it was looking into the reports of abuses.
Varun Beverages, a major Pepsi franchisees, this year opened its third manufacturing and bottling plant in Maharashtra.
Pepsi has said that its franchisee buys relatively little sugar from Maharashtra when taken in the context of the state's huge production.
Nestlé
At first, Nestlé told The Times that it had stopped buying sugar from Maharashtra last year "based on the due diligence work we conduct as part of our human rights framework."
That suggested that the company had uncovered abuses.
Pressed for details, a spokeswoman said that she had been mistaken. She said that Nestlé had stopped buying from Maharashtra because of a 2022 Indian ban on sugar exports.
A company document dated late last year, however, lists Maharashtra suppliers. Nestlé said that document was outdated.
In interviews, one sugar mill said that it had sold to Nestlé this year. Others said that Nestlé continued to buy from them through brokers.
Nestlé says that is inaccurate.
Mondelez
Mondelez, a conglomerate that includes Cadbury and Nabisco, said that it was "taking steps to help address labor concerns on sugar farms in this region." It did not elaborate.
The company said it had stopped buying sugar from the Indian sugar company Dalmia Bharat, which owns a mill linked to unnecessary hysterectomies and abuses.
Dalmia, which also supplies Coca-Cola, recently arranged to provide sanitary pads, shoes, socks and gloves to some workers. A doctor had spoken to female workers about menstrual health.
Qadri Inzamam, a reporter with The Fuller Project, and Ankur Tangade contributed reporting from Beed, India.
Qadri Inzamam, a reporter with The Fuller Project, and Ankur Tangade contributed reporting from Beed, India.
Photograph Workers in a sugar cane field in the state of Maharashtra, India, in 2023. An investigation this year revealed a brutal labor system.; The Dalmia Bharat plant in Kolhapur, India. Maharashtra, with its abundant fields, is one of the country's top producers of sugar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAUMYA KHANDELWAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A6.

Subject: Comptrollers; Institutional investments; Hysterectomy; Social investing; Child labor; Diplomatic & consular services; Working conditions; Franchisees; Pension funds; Criminal investigations; Manual workers; Investors; Female employees

Business indexing term: Subject: Comptrollers Institutional investments Social investing Child labor Working conditions Franchisees Pension funds Manual workers Female employees

Location: New York; United States--US; India

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/20/world/asia/wall-street-us-companies-india-sugar-labor-abuse.html

Title: Can Wall Street Pressure Ease Brutality in India?:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.6

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 21, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3147592573

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-wall-street-pressure-ease-brutality-india/docview/3147592573/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Quote of the Day: [Quote]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/quote-day/docview/3143473791/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "If you come in and order Pepsi and we don't have it, we'll give you Coke. There's no real substitute for Guinness."
Andy Mac Manus, the manager of the Castle, a London pub, on the Irish beer's parent company, Diageo, limiting the number of barrels that British pubs and bars can order each week, creating a shortage. Page A11.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A2.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/12/pageoneplus/quote-of-the-day-lean-supplies-trouble-lovers-of-stout.html

Title: Quote of the Day:   [Quote ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 13, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3143473791

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/quote-day/docview/3143473791/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Rescuing the Legacy of a Radical Painter: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Walker Mimms

Publication info: Walker Mimms. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rescuing-legacy-radical-painter/docview/3143473778/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Canvas burns quickly, so when a wildfire spread through Orange County, Calif., this summer, Andrew Tonkovich, a writer and editor, crammed some paintings into the bed of a pickup and sped down a mountain to safety.
"I was not going to have come all this way, and gotten so close, that I was going to risk my house burning down with the art in it," Tonkovich said. The pieces he had ferried out of the fire's potential path were by Peter Carr, a little-known Californian artist whose work is now the subject of a show at Cerritos College, a community college south of Los Angeles.
As Tonkovich roamed the gallery one boiling October afternoon during the installation, he was able to laugh about the memory. Modjeska Canyon, where he lives, had been spared.
On its face, "Peter Carr: Artist for Survival" is the first survey of an activist and artist who made flamboyant but regional contributions to California's antinuclear movement, a minor poet who painted and drew incessantly and then, as Tonkovich put it, "made the strategic mistake of dying at 55, just as he might have gotten his break." (Carr died from a heart attack in 1981.)
But for Tonkovich, who has no formal experience in exhibitions, it is also an act of deeply personal devotion that exceeds even the most compelling artist rediscoveries by professional curators.
Harry Lawson Carr, known as Peter Carr, served as a naval ensign in the Pacific during World War II and joined the English faculty at California State University, Long Beach, in 1959. Armed with a syllabus of the works of the psychiatrist Carl Jung, Carr would conduct his comparative folklore seminars in the corporate epicenter: at Disneyland. There, as a student 20 years later, Tonkovich fell under the tenured radical's thrall.
"I came out of an extremely right-wing, conservative, kooky family, very religious," said Tonkovich, now 64. Framed by a silver ponytail and a Pussy Riot shirt, he smiled with the gracious mischief of a surfer version of Kenneth Branagh. "Peter, in a sense, was a gift-wrapped invitation to just dive deep into the counterculture."
Tonkovich was a sophomore when Carr died on campus and began the slide from obscure to forgotten. But the student had already been hooked: on Carr's environmentalism, his charm and outrage, his offbeat pedagogies.
When Carr's widow died in 2011 at 88, Tonkovich rescued a minivan's worth of artworks and papers scheduled for the dump. He has lived among them since.
The works are angry, undulating and hallucinatory, and 90 of them, spanning the 1960s and '70s, are on view at Cerritos through Dec. 20. Only a handful were shown in Carr's lifetime.
With a flappy, seemingly self-taught brushwork on canvas, and a labored, up-all-night penmanship on paper, Carr depicts human types in all manner of assembly -- bus stations and fallout shelters, beaches and battlefields -- and in spectra of doom, from urban isolation to mass extinction. A range of Vietnam-era extremes combine in Carr's graphics: the splattery rage of Ralph Steadman, the twee humanity of Kurt Vonnegut, the interspecies creatures of Kenneth Patchen.
On that day in October, with 10 days until the opening, 200 works covered the floor, awaiting selection. "It's all very amorphous, still," said James MacDevitt, the curator at Cerritos, speaking with the gumption of a one-man gallery. Hearing Tonkovich's elevator pitch at an opening, MacDevitt was the one who jumped for a Carr show. Their revival of the painter is being documented by a group of Southern California film students.
MacDevitt flipped through a stack of Carr's gestural charcoal drawings containing anti-Biblical commandments, from 1974. One read: "You must fecundate and fornicate and know what it means to be afraid." MacDevitt paused on another, depicting a man asleep. Or dead? Tonkovich directed a finger: "In this smudge here I see a funeral pyre, don't you?" he asked. "These drawings are clearly India," where Carr spent a year during the Timothy Leary era.
Other canvases target corporate malaise. There were violent campaign posters for the antiwar presidential hopeful of 1972, Senator George McGovern, along with many works decrying nuclear weaponry, the cause of Carr's life.
One undated drawing, the only Carr piece that Tonkovich actually bought, at a 1981 benefit for the now-defunct Peter Carr Peace Center, is a cross-section of a hillside, inked in pen with dull washes. (Tonkovich wonders if it was the last sale of Carr's work.) Fighter jets tear through the sky. Underground, people huddle like ants. With the visual equivalent of comedic timing, one issues a tiny speech bubble: "You can easily see that we are completely safe down here."
It's peace propaganda. But the tight, sedimented pen lines of Carr's drawings, like fascicles in a hunk of muscle, hint at something metaphysical, a sort of unity among earth and organisms.
Carr "creates this cell that people are collected in," Tonkovich said. "People arrive in this kind of collective apprehension of their relationships, almost a bio-cosmology. They're always connected by the lines."
This global humanity -- and global imperilment -- runs through Carr's illustrated eco-verse pamphlet "Aliso Creek" (1974), a poetic blending of Walt Whitman and Edward Abbey. Collectors covet this kind of staple-bound ephemera, but MacDevitt thought visitors should be able to thumb through them, choosing seven for the show.
The rest of the archive is an hour south in Modjeska, split between a storage unit and a converted miner's shack cuddled by live oaks and olive trees, where Tonkovich lives with his wife, Lisa Alvarez, a writer and educator. There, over Spanish tortilla and Bach, they mused about the man whose work, now hanging at Cerritos, was represented by blank spaces on their walls.
"I wonder if Peter Carr would even remember who the hell I was," Tonkovich said with a laugh; he took only two classes with Carr. "I didn't even realize until I was sort of forced to confront it by way of putting the show together: All along I've been either on purpose or accidentally becoming a slightly weaker version of a Peter Carr."
Not exactly. Today Tonkovich edits the Santa Monica Review and the online magazine Citric Acid, and he also hosts the literary radio show "Bibliocracy." Before that, he did follow Carr into academia: He taught composition at the University of California, Irvine, for 25 years.
But his true legacy there was not as a performative role model, he said. It was as the grievance steward for adjunct faculty, helping to fight for labor rights such as medical leave, and challenging faculty churn, which can be a predatory hiring practice. "I like to advocate for my students," he said, "but I really like to advocate for my cohort."
He contrasted his own activism with that of Carr, who "wanted to change everything," he said. "He was a visionary, a nutty William Blake type. And why not? The Vietnam War, the nuclear arms race, the U.S. intervention in Central America. They were huge."
At Cerritos, this ambition is evident in several big, bright canvases, like "Everyone," in which a big bruise-colored blob of human beings rockets past the confines of a city skyline.
As night fell, Tonkovich hoisted down boxes of the Carr archive. They contained Carr's typewritten poetry drafts for his unpublished epic "The Discovery of California," and travelogues for an oral history of the antinuclear movement, which he was conducting with his wife, the organizer and onetime communist Jeanie Bernstein.
Carr's diaries are filled with exploratory, Picasso-esque sketches in ballpoint pen. And there are writings that reveal the mounting rage that characterizes his paintings -- like the crazily colored and violent "Bang!" on view at Cerritos, a flower-power "Guernica."
In one early diary page, Carr wrote: "I'd sneak up behind Sara Lee when she wasn't looking, hit her on the head with a hammer, and down she'd go." I winced at that. But Tonkovich caught the reference: Carr had meant the ready-made dessert corporation Sara Lee. "I mean, that's funny," Tonkovich said. "He hated Pepsi and Caterpillar," the mining and construction equipment company. "If he wants to kill Sara Lee and Colonel Sanders, that's fine with us, isn't it?"
After more sifting in silence, Tonkovich handed me a yellowed clipping. It was a remembrance of Carr in the Cal State student newspaper, written by Tonkovich at 21 years old. "It is admittedly difficult to be inspired by the legacies of heroic individuals," the young student cautioned, as he bitterly enumerated the follies of Reagan's first year. But 40 years later, he sat cross-legged and barefoot, carefully inspecting manuscripts.
Peter Carr: Artist for Survival
Through Dec. 20. Cerritos College Art Gallery, 11110 Alondra Boulevard, Norwalk, Calif.; 562-860-2451; cerritos.edu/art-gallery.
Photograph Peter Carr's work is the subject of an exhibition at Cerritos College in California. Above, clockwise from top left, an undated photo of Carr from his archives; the writer Andrew Tonkovich gesturing to an untitled piece by Carr; a view of the exhibition; Tonkovich at home, perusing Carr's drawings. Below, some of Carr's pieces at Tonkovich's home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX WELSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ANDREW TONKOVICH) This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Archives & records; Drawing; Art galleries & museums; Community colleges; Art exhibits; Painting

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: California; United States--US; Vietnam

Company / organization: Name: Cerritos College; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/12/arts/design/peter-carr-unknown-artist.html

Title: Rescuing the Legacy of a Radical Painter:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 13, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3143473778

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rescuing-legacy-radical-painter/docview/3143473778/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Lean Supplies Trouble Lovers of Stout: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Nierenberg, Amelia

Publication info: Nierenberg, Amelia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lean-supplies-trouble-lovers-stout/docview/3143473774/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Guinness's parent company has limited the amount of the beer that U.K. wholesalers and distributors can buy each week, after surging demand led to fears of shortages.
British pubs are facing something of a crisis: They cannot get enough Guinness.
The trouble became evident last week, when the Irish beer's parent company, Diageo, started limiting the number of barrels of Guinness that British pubs and bars can order each week.
"Over the past month we have seen exceptional consumer demand for Guinness," Diageo said in a statement. "We have maximized supply and we are working proactively with our customers to manage the distribution to trade as efficiently as possible."
The black liquid has surged in popularity on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean in the past year. Once seen as an old-timer's beer, it has recently become a Gen Z darling, thanks to savvy marketing, celebrity endorsements and a viral drinking challenge. Influencers and ordinary drinkers alike have been trying to "split the G," which means drinking enough in one chug to leave the foam scything the first letter of the branded pint glasses.
But now, many pubs in Britain say they can't buy the kegs they need during the busy festive period because of Diageo's allocation limits. As news of the restricted supply has spread, there has been some panic-buying, analysts said, exacerbating the problem.
"It feels like the toilet roll shortages during Covid -- the more coverage that comes, the worse the situation gets!" Richard Hall, the managing director of Inn Express, a wholesale drinks supplier, wrote in an email.
Some were skeptical at first. "To be honest, I thought it might have been a PR thing," said Tommy McGuinness, the manager of The Marquis, a pub in London, of the rumors that taps were running dry. "Turns out, it's real."
On Saturday, his pub was down to its final keg of Guinness. The stout was going especially fast with the Christmas crowds -- "the tap was nonstop pouring," he said -- with hours before closing time. Mr. McGuinness was shocked: "I've never run out of Guinness, ever."
So he started reaching out to pubs nearby: Could anyone spot him? When he finally found two kegs, he and his nephew wheeled trolleys through lashing rain.
Their storage space is small, so he is living delivery to delivery. "Anybody with a cellar big enough will be ordering in bulk," he said. "That's what I would do -- if I had the space."
Guinness was the top beer in Britain by volume sales in the year to November, according to CGA by NIQ, a hospitality data consultancy. From July to October, Guinness keg sales were up 21 percent compared with the same period last year, while overall beer sales were flat.
Devotees love Guinness for its dark richness; other people find it too heavy and too sweet. For fans, it is not just a beer. It is almost a "personality trait," or maybe a tie to their Irish heritage.
"If you come in and order Pepsi and we don't have it, we'll give you Coke," said Andy Mac Manus, the manager of The Castle, a London pub. "There's no real substitute for Guinness."
The Castle asked its Guinness supplier for 12 kegs. It got only six. A second supplier had none to spare. Mr. Mac Manus believes other pubs got spooked by the shortage rumors, saying: "Some of the other sites over-ordered."
Britain is the only place where Diageo is limiting sales. The issue was fodder for good-natured ribbing at the Irish Embassy's Christmas party in London on Wednesday. Martin Fraser, the ambassador, assured his guests that the embassy's supply was unaffected -- and that no glass would go unfilled that evening.
For British pubs, running out of Guinness is an annoyance. But for Irish pubs, it's drink or die. "It's not very authentic if an Irish tavern can't sell Guinness," said Shaun Jenkinson, the operations director of Katie O'Brien's, an Irish pub chain with locations throughout England.
Mr. Jenkinson said that some locations were out of Guinness on Wednesday, though by Thursday they had received deliveries and hoped to restock further over the weekend.
Still, he is surprised by what he sees as poor planning by Diageo, the parent company. He noted that Guinness's popularity has been rising for a while, and that sales often spike in December.
Others are also frustrated. Paul Fletcher, the office manager of Small Beer, another wholesaler, expressed disappointment in an email that Guinness, a "brand leader," is "unable to supply the demand." He only has 60 percent of what he needs, a shortfall that he called "massive for us at this time of year."
Some see a potential silver lining, at least for similar beers. There's Murphy's, another Irish stout, and Camden Stout, from London.
"Guinness is always going to be Guinness," said Patrick Fitzsimons, who owns The Faltering Fullback, a London pub. But the shortage has piqued his customers' curiosity about alternatives, he said. Murphy's is sweeter, like chocolate. It's also cheaper: They sell Guinness for £6.10, and Murphy's for £5.10.
"It is converting a lot of people across to Murphy's," he said. "There are other products there," he added. "This is the time for these products to shine."
Mark Landler contributed reporting.
Mark Landler contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A11.

Subject: Beer; Suppliers; Diplomatic & consular services

Business indexing term: Subject: Suppliers

Location: United Kingdom--UK

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/12/world/europe/uk-guinness-shortages-limits.html

Title: Lean Supplies Trouble Lovers of Stout:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.11

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 13, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3143473774

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/lean-supplies-trouble-lovers-stout/docview/3143473774/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'Glicked' Duo Jump-Starts Box Office: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Barnes, Brooks

Publication info: Barnes, Brooks. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/glicked-duo-jump-starts-box-office/docview/3132478238/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Battling a 27 percent decline in domestic ticket sales compared with before the pandemic, studios left no marketing drum unthumped in releasing the movies.
Hollywood was back this weekend to where it desperately hungers to be -- at the center of global culture.
Women flocked to the PG-rated "Wicked," a lavish adaptation of Act One of the popular Broadway musical, while men supported "Gladiator II," an R-rated sequel 24 years in the making. Together, the two big-budget movies sold an estimated $ 384 million in tickets worldwide, bringing the box office back to life after months of audience indifference. Going into the weekend, ticket sales were down about 11 percent from last year in the United States and Canada -- and 27 percent compared with before the pandemic.
"Wicked" was No. 1 in North America, with sales from Friday through Sunday of roughly $ 95 million from 3,888 theaters, for a total since opening in previews earlier in the week of $ 114 million. That sum made "Wicked" the third-highest opener for the year, behind $ 211 million for "Deadpool & Wolverine" and $ 154 million for "Inside Out 2." (Overseas, "Wicked" was expected to collect an additional $ 48 million.)
Ridley Scott's "Gladiator II" collected about $ 56 million in North America, including previews, for a worldwide total since arriving in overseas release earlier this month of about $ 220 million.
"This weekend's two strong openers are invigorating a box office that fell apart after a good summer," said David A. Gross, a film consultant who publishes a newsletter on box office numbers.
But the bounce came at a steep price.
To convince people that "Wicked" was worth a trip to the multiplex, Universal Pictures mounted one of the largest marketing campaigns in Hollywood history. The no-expense-spared effort started in February at the Super Bowl and did not let up, leaving some competing studio marketers slack-jawed.
Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande, who star in "Wicked," were omnipresent at the Summer Olympics. NBC broadcast an hourlong infomercial about the movie. Universal theme parks pounded promotional drums. The "Today" show chipped in blanket coverage. Universal Pictures, which is part of the NBCUniversal media conglomerate, secured more than 400 brand partnerships for the film, resulting in "Wicked" dolls from Mattel, "Wicked" drinks at Starbucks, "Wicked" LEGO sets, and "Wicked" cardigans at Target, just to name four. Ms. Erivo and Ms. Grande gave so many interviews that they seemed, at times, to be nearing a breaking point.
The marketing onslaught is not over: The movie will have a "significant" presence on Thursday at Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade on NBC, Universal said. "Wicked: Part Two" is scheduled for release next year, so get comfy with "Wicked" everything. Together, the two movies will easily cost more than $ 500 million to make and market.
Is this now what it takes to fill theaters? Movies, especially ones like "Wicked," a mega-spectacle with mega-reviews based on a mega-musical, used to be able to commandeer the culture by themselves.
"Sadly, filmgoing has fallen further and further down the leisure-time priority list, and the best hope studios have is to manufacture a cultural event," Stephen Galloway, the dean of Chapman University's film school, said in an email.
He added of brand partnerships: "There's a kind of irony here. To show the world you're unique and different, you turn to businesses that promise customers their products are just the same."
"Gladiator II," which cost Paramount Pictures at least $ 350 million to make and market, was also given a hard sell, despite being a well-reviewed sequel to a blockbuster that won the prize for best picture at the 2001 Oscars and has remained popular on home video. To generate interest in "Gladiator II," Paramount Pictures advertised heavily at sporting events; staged premieres in Australia, Japan, Ireland, France, Denmark, Britain and the United States; set up extensive partnerships with Ferrari and Pepsi; and simultaneously debuted a final 60-second trailer for the film on more than 4,000 television networks, digital platforms, local stations, Spanish-language outlets and radio stations.
"Wicked," directed by Jon M. Chu, easily set a domestic box office record for the biggest opening of a live-action musical. The record is currently held by "Hairspray," which arrived to $ 43 million in domestic ticket sales in 2007, after adjusting for inflation. (The Hollywood record books only go back to the 1970s.)
About 72 percent of ticket buyers for "Wicked" were female, according to PostTrak, an exit polling service, meaning that Universal's attempt to convince men that a glittery, two-hour-and-40-minute musical was worth their time was not entirely successful. Deadline, an entertainment trade news site, estimated on Thursday that "Wicked" was on track to take in between $ 130 million and $ 150 million in tickets in North America over the weekend.
Some 60 percent of "Gladiator II" ticket buyers were male, according to PostTrak. Paramount was thrilled with the demographic breakdown, noting that roughly half of ticket buyers were under 35, a sign that the sequel had reached a new generation while maintaining the legacy audience.
To some degree, "Wicked" helped fuel "Gladiator II" and vice versa, with their simultaneous release in the United States and Canada nicknamed "Glicked," and movie fans -- captivated by their wild incongruity -- taking in double features and dressing in elaborate costumes. Box office analysts said the effect was minimal, however, at least compared with "Barbenheimer" last year, when hundreds of thousands of moviegoers paid to see "Barbie" and "Oppenheimer" in back-to-back screenings.
Both "Wicked" and "Gladiator II" amounted to cinematic comfort food -- escapist, over-the-top stories that allowed Americans to leave behind a bruising presidential campaign and the continuing impact of inflation. People reach for nostalgia in times of stress, and movies that remind audiences of the past have been succeeding. Examples include "Wonka," "Bad Boys: Ride or Die," "Beetlejuice Beetlejuice," "Twisters" and now "Wicked," with its roots in "The Wizard of Oz," and "Gladiator II," with its sandals and swords.
Photograph In a box office battle of the sexes, "Wicked," with Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo, top, attracted mostly women and took in $ 114 million, while "Gladiator II," starring Paul Mescal, was more popular with men and collected $ 56 million. Hollywood hopes such divergent hits can produce a box office synergy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILES KEYTE/UNIVERSAL PICTURES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS; AIDAN MONAGHAN/PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Marketing; Ticket sales; Motion pictures; Remakes & sequels; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing

Location: United States--US; Canada; North America

People: Grande, Ariana; Erivo, Cynthia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/24/business/media/wicked-gladiator-2-box-office.html

Title: 'Glicked' Duo Jump-Starts Box Office:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 25, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132478238

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/glicked-duo-jump-starts-box-office/docview/3132478238/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 25, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-25

Database: Global Ne wsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

‘Wicked’ and ‘Gladiator II’ Jump-Start the Box Office, but at a Cost

Author: Barnes, Brooks

Publication info: Barnes, Brooks. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wicked-gladiator-ii-jump-start-box-office-at-cost/docview/3132457018/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: LOS ANGELES — Hollywood was back this weekend to where it desperately hungers to be — at the center of global culture.
Women flocked to the PG-rated “Wicked,” a lavish adaptation of Act One of the popular Broadway musical, while men supported “Gladiator II,” an R-rated sequel 24 years in the making. Together, the two big-budget movies sold an estimated $384 million in tickets worldwide, bringing the box office back to life after months of audience indifference. Going into the weekend, ticket sales were down about 11% from last year in the United States and Canada — and 27% compared with before the pandemic.
“Wicked” was No. 1 in North America, with sales from Friday through Sunday of roughly $95 million from 3,888 theaters, for a total since opening in previews earlier in the week of $114 million. That sum made “Wicked” the third-highest opener for the year, behind $211 million for “Deadpool & Wolverine” and $154 million for “Inside Out 2.” (Overseas, “Wicked” was expected to collect an additional $48 million.)
Ridley Scott’s “Gladiator II” collected about $56 million in North America, including previews, for a worldwide total since arriving in overseas release earlier this month of about $220 million.
“This weekend’s two strong openers are invigorating a box office that fell apart after a good summer,” said David A. Gross, a film consultant who publishes a newsletter on box office numbers.
But the bounce came at a steep price.
To convince people that “Wicked” was worth a trip to the multiplex, Universal Pictures mounted one of the largest marketing campaigns in Hollywood history. The no-expense-spared effort started in February at the Super Bowl and did not let up, leaving some competing studio marketers slack-jawed.
Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande, who star in “Wicked,” were omnipresent at the Summer Olympics. NBC broadcast an hourlong infomercial about the movie. Universal theme parks pounded promotional drums. The “Today” show chipped in blanket coverage. Universal Pictures, which is part of the NBCUniversal media conglomerate, secured more than 400 brand partnerships for the film, resulting in “Wicked” dolls from Mattel, “Wicked” drinks at Starbucks, “Wicked” LEGO sets, and “Wicked” cardigans at Target, just to name four. Erivo and Grande gave so many interviews that they seemed, at times, to be nearing a breaking point.
The marketing onslaught is not over: The movie will have a “significant” presence Thursday at Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade on NBC, Universal said. “Wicked: Part Two” is scheduled for release next year, so get comfy with “Wicked” everything. Together, the two movies will easily cost more than $500 million to make and market.
Is this now what it takes to fill theaters? Movies, especially ones like “Wicked,” a mega-spectacle with mega-reviews based on a mega-musical, used to be able to commandeer the culture by themselves.
“Sadly, filmgoing has fallen further and further down the leisure-time priority list, and the best hope studios have is to manufacture a cultural event,” Stephen Galloway, the dean of Chapman University’s film school, said in an email.
He added of brand partnerships: “There’s a kind of irony here. To show the world you’re unique and different, you turn to businesses that promise customers their products are just the same.”
“Gladiator II,” which cost Paramount Pictures at least $350 million to make and market, was also given a hard sell, despite being a well-reviewed sequel to a blockbuster that won the prize for best picture at the 2001 Oscars and has remained popular on home video. To generate interest in “Gladiator II,” Paramount Pictures advertised heavily at sporting events; staged premieres in Australia, Japan, Ireland, France, Denmark, Britain and the United States; set up extensive partnerships with Ferrari and Pepsi; and simultaneously debuted a final 60-second trailer for the film on more than 4,000 television networks, digital platforms, local stations, Spanish-language outlets and radio stations.
“Wicked,” directed by Jon M. Chu, easily set a domestic box office record for the biggest opening of a live-action musical. The record is currently held by “Hairspray,” which arrived to $43 million in domestic ticket sales in 2007, after adjusting for inflation. (The Hollywood record books only go back to the 1970s.)
About 72% of ticket buyers for “Wicked” were female, according to PostTrak, an exit polling service, meaning that Universal’s attempt to convince men that a glittery, two-hour-and-40-minute musical was worth their time was not entirely successful. Deadline, an entertainment trade news site, estimated Thursday that “Wicked” was on track to take in between $130 million and $150 million in tickets in North America over the weekend.
Some 60% of “Gladiator II” ticket buyers were male, according to PostTrak. Paramount was thrilled with the demographic breakdown, noting that roughly half of ticket buyers were younger than 35, a sign that the sequel had reached a new generation while maintaining the legacy audience.
To some degree, “Wicked” helped fuel “Gladiator II” and vice versa, with their simultaneous release in the United States and Canada nicknamed “Glicked,” and movie fans — captivated by their wild incongruity — taking in double features and dressing in elaborate costumes. Box office analysts said the effect was minimal, however, at least compared with “Barbenheimer” last year, when hundreds of thousands of moviegoers paid to see “Barbie” and “Oppenheimer” in back-to-back screenings.
Both “Wicked” and “Gladiator II” amounted to cinematic comfort food — escapist, over-the-top stories that allowed Americans to leave behind a bruising presidential campaign and the continuing impact of inflation. People reach for nostalgia in times of stress, and movies that remind audiences of the past have been succeeding. Examples include “Wonka,” “Bad Boys: Ride or Die,” “Beetlejuice Beetlejuice,” “Twisters” and now “Wicked,” with its roots in “The Wizard of Oz,” and “Gladiator II,” with its sandals and swords.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Marketing; Ticket sales; Motion pictures; Remakes & sequels

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing

Location: United States--US; Canada; North America

Identifier / keyword: Scott, Ridley; Great Britain; Canada; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Records And Achievements; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Ireland; Gladiator Ii (Movie); Erivo, Cynthia; Theater; Japan; Nbcuniversal; Box Office S ales; Barnes, Brooks; Movies; Arts; United States; Entertainment; Gross, David A; Elections; Amusement And Theme Parks; Pepsico Inc; Nbc Sports; Universal Pictures; Chu, Jon M (1979 ); Finances; Mattel Inc; Chapman University; Denmark; Advertising And Marketing; Wicked (Play); Starbucks Corporation; Target Corporation; Polls And Public Opinion; Collectors And Collections; Pop And Rock Music; Ratings (Parental Guidance); Parades; Television; France; Australia; National Broadcasting Co; North America; Grande, Ariana; Spanish Language; Paramount Pictures

Title: ‘Wicked’ and ‘Gladiator II’ Jump-Start the Box Office, but at a Cost

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 24, 2024

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3132457018

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wicked-gladiator-ii-jump-start-box-office-at-cost/docview/3132457018/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Don't Sugar Workers in India Leave?: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Rajagopalan, Megha

Publication info: Rajagopalan, Megha. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-dont-sugar-workers-india-leave/docview/3131681365/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Our correspondent explains how an exploitative labor system has produced a system of brutality in the country's sugar fields.
My colleagues and I have spent months investigating the sugar industry in the western Indian state of Maharashtra. We've documented illegal underage marriage, brutal working conditions and a pattern of women being coerced into unnecessary hysterectomies.
One question kept coming up: If this industry is so abusive, then why don't workers just leave?
The answer was darker than we could have imagined.
We obtained police reports and local government records, interviewed factory owners and collected the firsthand accounts of a half dozen families.
Together, they show that workers who tried to quit jobs harvesting sugar were threatened, beaten or abducted in retaliation. In at least one case, a laborer was killed. Some of the workers said that they had been held captive within sugar mills themselves.
They and their families told us that the authorities were of little help. Many still live in fear of further retaliation.
The root of this abusive system is something called debt bondage.
What is debt bondage?
Debt bondage is a type of forced labor. It describes any system where people must work to pay off their own debts or ones they have inherited. Often, spouses and children are considered liable too.
The practice, which is also known as bonded labor, is an internationally recognized human rights violation that is banned by Indian law and by the International Labor Organization.
In Maharashtra, sugar cane cutters do not receive wages. Instead, they receive advances at the beginning of each harvest from contractors working for sugar mills. They repay these advances with their work.
These lump-sum payments help with big expenses, like home repairs and medical expenses. But because the advances generally come with no written documentation, the contractors end up with total control over when and how much cane cutters work.
That results in brutal conditions, with laborers working in extreme heat from dawn until dusk. Children, who are unpaid, are often forced to pitch in, either by cutting cane or by doing chores like fetching water.
Every worker we interviewed told us that debt dominated their lives and forced them to keep coming back year after year to cut sugar.
Even the contractors we spoke to agreed. They told us that it was pretty much impossible for workers to repay an advance within a single harvest season, no matter how hard or long they worked.
Because this is all off the books, if a contractor says a laborer didn't work hard enough one season and owes money, there's no way to disprove the claim. So, inevitably, the debt rolls over into the following year, and workers must return -- even when they want to leave.
Why would that lead to hysterectomies?
Many workers told us that they would like to migrate to cities to find different types of jobs or even to farm other crops. But the debt keeps them trapped.
Sanitary conditions in sugar cane fields are so bad -- with no running water, shelter or toilets -- that menstruation while working is incredibly difficult. Women said they had little access to pads or tampons, and no place to throw them away.
Seeing a doctor means more than simply falling behind with work. Women have to pay for the privilege of a day off.
So in Maharashtra, female laborers face pressure to get hysterectomies even for minor gynecological ailments. Many view it as a way to stop menstruation or as a drastic form of cancer prevention, which is seen as a death sentence in such remote areas.
To pay for hysterectomies in private hospitals, many families borrow from their employers -- money they'll have to repay with even more work.
Is anyone doing anything about this?
Multinational companies like Coca-Cola and Pepsi that source sugar in Maharashtra explicitly say that they do not use debt bondage in their supply chains -- but the practice is widespread in the state. A court-appointed government fact-finding team found last year that the sugar industry relied on an extensive system of bonded labor.
None of the companies we spoke to would comment on that. Maharashtra accounts for a third of sugar production in India, the world's second-largest sugar producer, after Brazil. So companies have an incentive to keep that supply chain running.
Many local politicians deny that debt bondage occurs. They, too, have a financial incentive. We previously found that a majority of the state's sugar mills are controlled by local political figures.
A court case over the treatment of sugar workers is pending, but the case is moving slowly through India's notoriously backlogged court system.
Photograph Pushwa Pawar, 31, right, with relatives. Ms. Pawar's husband, a sugar cane cutter, said their family had been forced to work by a contractor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUMYA KHANDELWAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A2.

Subject: Manual workers; Sugarcane; Sugar industry; Contractors; Forced labor; Debt

Business indexing term: Subject: Manual workers Sugar industry Contractors Forced labor Debt

Location: India; Maharashtra India

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/21/world/europe/india-sugar-debt-bondage-women-forced-labor.html

Title: Why Don't Sugar Workers in India Leave?:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 22, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 3131681365

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-dont-sugar-workers-india-leave/docview/3131681365/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Stories They're Telling About Joan Didion: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Schwartz, Casey

Publication info: Schwartz, Casey. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stories-theyre-telling-about-joan-didion/docview/3123625342/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Since her death, Didion has become a literary subject as popular for her image and writing as for the fascination she inspired for almost half a century.
It's still bright afternoon when the writer Lili Anolik slips into the dim recesses of the Odeon restaurant. Here, at New York's timeless destination for downtown cool, she prefers to sit in the same place every time, a small booth by the host's stand.
Anolik orders an Earl Grey tea but furtively sips from a Pepsi she pulls from her purse. On the table: galleys of her new book, "Didion and Babitz," out in November.
Despite the split billing in Anolik's title, the conversation quickly turns to Joan Didion.
"She's so opaque," Anolik said. "I felt like I've been trying to understand her for years, but I've been standing outside a locked door."
Anolik isn't the only one trying to crack open that door. "Didion and Babitz" is one of four books featuring Didion written since her death in 2021, with at least two more scheduled in the years to come. The published books include a memoir from Didion's nephew Griffin Dunne about his family in Los Angeles; Cory Leadbeater's memoir of his time working for Didion at the end of her life; and Evelyn McDonnell's meditative tribute, "The World According to Joan Didion." Next year, The New York Times's movie critic Alissa Wilkinson's depiction of Didion in Hollywood will be published in March.
These writers, of course, bring their own gaze and interpretation of Didion, a figure whose distinctive blend of opacity and confession seems to invite dissection, speculation and projection perhaps more than any other contemporary writer. It's not only Didion herself that these books grapple with, but the fascination she inspired and the enduring patina of cool she held onto for nearly 50 years.
Lynn Nesbit, Didion's longtime agent and now one of her three literary executors, expressed a lack of enthusiasm for the trend. "It makes me somewhat uncomfortable that so many writers are trying to understand their own lives through the prism of examining Joan's life and her work," Nesbit said. "Their books become so much about them, and not about her."
Anolik comes at Didion through the lens of a subject she already knows well: Eve Babitz, the fleshy, libidinous yin to Didion's sinewy, controlled yang. The two lived in and wrote about Los Angeles amid the tumultuous years of the 1960s and '70s, and knew each other well for a time. But their friendship lapsed when Babitz decided she couldn't take Didion's edits of her work, or Didion's voice in her head.
Best known for her 1977 novel, "Slow Days, Fast Company," Babitz fell into obscurity as Didion's star rose. Decades later, it was Anolik who helped bring Babitz back into literary attention, with her 2019 biography "Hollywood's Eve."
After Babitz died in 2021, her sister, Mirandi, called Anolik to say that she had unearthed cardboard boxes filled with never-before-seen correspondence from Babitz's one bedroom in West Hollywood. The first letter Anolik pulled was a scorching missive Babitz wrote to Didion in 1972 but never sent. "Could you write what you write if you weren't so tiny, Joan?" Babitz demanded.
Though initially reluctant to get sucked back into the force field of Babitz, Anolik couldn't ignore the pull of the archive and everything it could reveal about both women.
"Didion wasn't someone who was really important to me when I was coming up," Anolik said. And this, she said, freed her to approach her subject without being "constrained by awe," which, she believes, hampers other depictions.
In her book, Anolik describes Didion as "calculating" and "pitiless," gathering telling instances she found in her research. "She uses all these things, emphasizing her own frailty, to disguise the fact that she's a predator," Anolik said. "She cops to it quite often, but you'll miss it, because it's the tininess, it's the sunglasses, it's the shyness. But she's a killer."
But Anolik professes to admire these qualities. "Anyone who is as shrewd at managing her career as Joan," she said, "has to have her ruthless side."
Yet Anolik discovered that even for Didion, it wasn't a straight shot to the top. She tracked down the man who would become, for her, a Rosetta Stone: Noel Parmentel Jr., Didion's boyfriend in New York, the mysterious "N" to whom she dedicated her first book, "Run River."
He was 97 years old when he got the call, but agreed to talk to Anolik, who rushed to Connecticut to meet him.
"I understood how she made herself Joan Didion," Anolik said. "She was this small-town girl who was awkwardly shy."
She added: "When it doesn't work out with Noel, he tells her who to marry -- and she does it."
Thus began, Anolik argues, Didion's long, famous marriage to John Gregory Dunne. Their marriage is one of many Didion myths that she sets out to complicate, amplifying long-existing speculation about Dunne's sexuality.
Dunne, a well-known writer in his own right, was the brother of Dominick Dunne. Dominick's son, the actor and producer Griffin, published in June his own portrayal of his aunt Joan, one of the characters in his family memoir, "The Friday Afternoon Club."
In Griffin's narrative, Didion is seen through the lens of a loving history, but one complicated by the events around the murder of Griffin's sister, Dominique, a rising actress strangled to death by her boyfriend, John Sweeney, in 1982.
Dunne and Didion had inadvertently brought the couple together, taking Dominique to Ma Maison, the French restaurant in Los Angeles they frequented, where Sweeney worked as a sous chef. When they got up to greet friends, Sweeney zeroed in on their young niece, alone at the table.
As Dominique's murder trial began, along with the high-profile media circus that followed, Didion and Dunne departed for Paris, so that their then teenage daughter, Quintana, wouldn't be called to testify. Griffin heard about their intended trip as the trial was getting underway.
"I had a lot of mixed feelings about that," Griffin said. "I did feel somewhat abandoned and also kind of confused."
Yet the relationship went deep. "They took me into their lives at a very early age and they were the coolest people I ever knew," Griffin said. He made a documentary about his aunt in 2017 in which he said he ultimately cut a scene involving what he called "a difficult conversation" about Dominique's trial.
But when asked what most people don't know about his aunt, he points to her sense of humor. "People have an interpretation of her that she thinks grim thoughts, that the psychosis of the country affects her own personal psychosis," he said. But the Didion he knew would "just shake with laughter."
In "We Tell Ourselves Stories," Wilkinson, the movie critic, zooms in on the almost 40 years that Didion and Dunne worked for Hollywood. Wilkinson's title is a fragment of Didion's most famous and most misunderstood line: "We tell ourselves stories in order to live" has by now passed into Didion cliché, but it was not, Wilkinson points out, intended as a positive; it is not the "inspirational quotation" that many believe it to be.
Rather, storytelling, the imposition of narrative, regardless of truth, is our bulwark against chaos, against meaninglessness. And the stories themselves, Wilkinson argues, come from one place in particular: the movies. Didion "knows intimately that it is Hollywood, America's dream factory, that has taught us who we are," Wilkinson writes. It was Hollywood that was devoted to "telling us we were fine. We were going to be fine."
And yet, what Didion already knows, and then finds out anew, is that we aren't necessarily going to be.
Personal tragedy is the subject of one of her last books, "The Year of Magical Thinking," which was the great blockbuster success of her career, detailing the death of her husband. That book was followed by "Blue Nights," detailing the death of her daughter, Quintana. Didion's image late in life is often marked by grief and frailty. And it was then, in this period of vulnerability, that a young man, an aspiring writer himself, came to work for her.
As Didion's assistant, Leadbeater writes about her last few years of life in his memoir, "The Uptown Local," published in June.
Leadbeater's book is a study in socio-economic contrast. He was awed by, and sometimes resentful of, her wealthy world: the tulips planted every spring on Park Avenue; the drivers her neighbors kept on standby all night. Leadbeater's other life, by contrast, consisted of 3:30 a.m. trips to a Dunkin' before visiting his father in prison. He saw Didion at once as his savior and, also, eventually, a kind of burden, as he watched friends he'd come up with launching their lives. "I was living as if married to a woman in her 80s," he writes.
"It's a profound thing to be with someone for whom every moment could be their last moment," he said. "The anxiety was that if I made one mistake, it could be the end of her life."
Together they ordered dinner from her favorite restaurants, like Shun Lee; together they sat on a bench on Fifth Avenue and smoked cigarettes. Throughout his memoir, Joan, as he refers to her, doesn't say much. Most of her quotes are two or three words ("Oh my," when he lays his newborn baby on her lap.) Her health was failing by the time he knew her, but also, he said, "If she was going to say something that was potentially reductive or relying on an image or a clichéd idea, she preferred to say nothing at all."
It was Leadbeater who carried Didion's ashes home a few weeks after her death.
Shelley Wanger, Didion's former editor at Knopf and one of her literary executors, said that there was no authorized biographer chosen to write the official story of Didion's life yet (Tracy Daugherty published an unauthorized biography in 2015).
But in the spring of 2025, the New York Public Library will allow researchers to see its collection of Didion's and Dunne's papers, which arrived in 354 boxes, according to Julie Golia, the library's associate director of archives, manuscripts and rare books.
"The archives are an extremely rich trove of material about Joan, John and Quintana," Wanger said. "Joan didn't throw anything away."
It's possible, then, that among these unseen files waiting at the library, there are new insights into the tiny sphinx in dark glasses, one of the most famous writers of the 20th century, the one who forever changed our understanding of what nonfiction can be.
Photograph From top, the writer in 1981 and with her husband, John Gregory Dunne, in 1972. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET FRIES/GETTY IMAGES; FRANK EDWARDS/FOTOS INTERNATIONAL, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Recent books on Joan Didion include "The Uptown Local," which was published in June; "We Tell Ourselves Stories," which will be released in March; and "Didion and Babitz," which is out on Nov. 12 (C2) This article appeared in print on page C1, C2.

Subject: Psychosis; Writers; Autobiographies; Motion pictures; Books

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Didion, Joan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/27/books/race-capture-joan-didion.html

Title: Stories They're Telling About Joan Didion:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 4, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3123625342

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stories-theyre-telling-about-joan-didion/docview/3123625342/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3122390141/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: LABOR
Pepsi Says It Will Close
4 U.S. Bottling Plants
PepsiCo said on Wednesday it plans to close four U.S. bottling plants and lay off nearly 400 workers as part of its efforts to streamline its operations.
The company said the closures will impact 136 workers in Cincinnati; 131 in Chicago; 127 in Harrisburg, Pa.; and fewer than 50 in Atlanta.
The Chicago plant is the only one that will fully close. PepsiCo, based in Purchase, N.Y., confirmed that closure this week. The company said sales, delivery and warehouse functions will continue at the other three locations.
Earlier this month, PepsiCo lowered its sales forecast for the year as consumers in the U.S., China and elsewhere pulled back on buying its drinks and snacks after years of price increases. PepsiCo's North American beverage sales fell 3 percent in both the second and third quarters of this year.
PepsiCo's net income fell 5 percent to $ 2.9 billion in the July-September period. Associated Press
BANKRUPTCY
Court Clears Way for Sale
Of Tupperware Brands
A U.S. bankruptcy judge approved a sale of Tupperware Brands on Tuesday, paving the way for the food storage company to exit Chapter 11 protection and undergo a hoped-for revitalization.
The sale given the court's green light in Delaware still is subject to closing conditions. Under terms of the deal, a group of lenders is buying Tupperware's brand name and various operating assets for $ 23.5 million in cash and more than $ 63 million in debt relief.
Tupperware agreed to the lender takeover last week, pivoting from a planned asset auction. The brand said it expects to operate as The New Tupperware Co. upon completion of the deal.
Customers in "global core markets" will be able to buy Tupperware products online and through independent sales consultants, Tupperware said.
Associated Press
TECHNOLOGY
Super Micro Stock Drops
After Accountants Resign
Shares of Super Micro Computer plunged more than 30 percent by midday Wednesday, after the server maker disclosed that Ernst & Young had resigned as its public accounting firm.
According to a regulatory filing from Super Micro, EY resigned while conducting an audit for the tech company's most recent fiscal year. The accounting firm communicated concerns in July over issues like transparency and internal control related to financial reporting, the filing notes, later prompting Super Micro's board to enlist a review.
Information received during the review then led EY to raise questions about whether Super Micro "demonstrates a commitment to integrity and ethical values," the company added, as well as transparency and oversight independent of the chief executive.
EY's letter stated it would "no longer be able to rely" on representations from the company's management. Associated Press
Credit: By The Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARRETT CHEEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Resignations; Bankruptcy; Sales; Accounting firms

Business indexing term: Subject: Resignations Bankruptcy Sales Accounting firms

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Tupperware Brands Corp; NAICS: 326199, 454390; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/30/business/31bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 31, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3122390141

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3122390141/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 31, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At Home, Plenty of Good News: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Bahr, Sarah

Publication info: Bahr, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-home-plenty-good-news/docview/3120938734/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Llamas, who has been racing between hurricanes and election coverage, makes time for baseball with his children and not-so-scary movies with his wife.
Five nights a week, Tom Llamas is one of the faces of election coverage for NBC News NOW.
But on Sundays, he is about 40 minutes north of NBC's Manhattan studios working out and hitting baseballs with his son at home in Westchester County, N.Y.
"In New York City with kids, you have to get up and go somewhere -- whether it's a car ride, or an Uber, or a taxi -- to do anything," said Mr. Llamas, 45, who moved with his young family to a seven-bedroom home in Purchase in 2022 after five years in a three-bedroom apartment in Midtown East. "As the kids were getting older, the process was starting to weigh on us."
The home -- which is outfitted with a gym, a gymnastics area and a record room -- is a welcome respite from the busy news cycle. Over the past few months, Mr. Llamas has gone to Paris to report on the Olympics; Chicago and Wisconsin to anchor from the Democratic and Republican National Conventions; and Florida and New Orleans to cover hurricanes.
"What people are going through during the hurricane is way worse than what I have to go through, but it's been incredibly difficult," said Mr. Llamas, who was born in Miami and recently returned from an assignment covering Hurricane Milton in Florida.
Mr. Llamas, who commutes to NBC Studios at 30 Rockefeller Plaza by either car or Metro-North train, lives with his wife, Jennifer Llamas, 43; two daughters, Malena, 11, and Juju, 8; and a son, Tomas, 7.
PRECIOUS REST Sunday is the only day I'm allowed to sleep in, because the kids have so many sports and events on Saturdays. It's amazing if I can sleep until 8 a.m. When I'm on the "Today" show during the week, I'm up at 4:45 a.m. Otherwise, I'm usually in between noon and 1 p.m.
OLD-SCHOOL NEWS I'll make coffee and start reading the paper. That's The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Post. I'll also look at NBCNews.com, Drudge Report, The Daily Mail, RealClearPolitics. I'll also light a fire in the morning; I love that there's space to have fireplaces. Small creature comforts go a long way, especially when you have children.
ORDER UP My wife and daughter Juju will start making breakfast, usually pancakes or omelets. Juju loves to cook -- and she's pretty good at it, too!
SUNDAY SOUNDTRACKS There are certain albums we save for Sundays, which are about relaxing and enjoying the day. If I had to pick three albums for my Sunday playlist, they'd be Bob Marley's "Kaya," the Paul Simon live album "Live Rhymin'," where he sings with the Jessy Dixon Singers, and George Harrison's "All Things Must Pass," which is the greatest Beatle solo album that exists on this planet.
FAMILY MASS My wife and I are both Catholic, and our faith is a big part of our life. We go to church at Resurrection in Rye and will try to hit the 8:30 a.m. Mass, but if we're dragging a little, there are a couple of other opportunities at 11:15 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. When my kids aren't in sports, we're going to the 5 p.m. weekend Masses on Saturdays, which are good for families because they're a little quicker.
BATTER UP We'll come back home and pop out to the backyard for an hour of family playtime. My son has become obsessed with baseball, so we're hitting lots of balls, going over his swing. Sometimes the girls come by and want to hit balls, too, or Juju and Malena will play together on the trampoline.
LEFTOVER-PALOOZA We'll eat lunch at home, which is kind of a choose-your-own-adventure situation. It's probably sandwiches or leftovers. Sunday lunches aren't a big thing for us since we've usually eaten a pretty good breakfast.
SPORTS BREAK After lunch, we'll turn on a football or baseball game. My son is obsessed with the Yankees -- and has made us all obsessed with them, too -- and also loves the Dodgers. My wife is a Saints fan, and I'm a Dolphins fan, so our kids have mixed allegiances.
GYM TIME I try to squeeze in a workout in our home gym. It helps me with stress -- we have a SoulCycle bike, and I do a lot of weight training and weight lifting. My kids will often join me. Of course, they're little-kid workouts -- box jumps or trying to hang from the pull-up bar. Their workouts only last about four minutes!
RECORD ROOM I collect records -- I have around 200 -- and the walls of this room are essentially completely covered in them. I grew up listening to Latin music, classic rock, pop music, reggae. It's a cool spot where I can go to read, research and get ready for work.
There's so much preparation I'm doing for election night. It's like preparing for the bar exam and training for a marathon at the same time, because we're going to be on television live from 5 p.m. until 2 a.m. There's seven battleground states, but there's also states like Virginia, Texas and Florida that are very important, and you have to be ready for anything. The door is always open, and if my kids want to come in, they definitely can. The only rule is that if you come in, you have to play something.
ART WALK When we moved to Purchase, we found this incredible spot -- it's the headquarters of Pepsi, and they built this sculpture park outside. There are beautiful trees, which are all labeled so you can learn about them as you walk. It feels like you're completely detached from New York City. Every time I go, I discover a new tree or piece of art.
PIZZA PICKUP We found a great spot in Greenwich, Conn.: Glenville Pizza. They have a pie there called the Grandpa Salad Pizza. I was never into salad pizza, but some friends who live near us said, "You have to try this; it's going to change your life," and now we get it almost every Sunday. We'll put in the order around 5 p.m., and my son and I will go pick it up and hang out there for a bit.
FAMILY TIME Sunday dinner is a big deal because I'm never home for dinner, so it's the one time a week we can all sit down together. Everyone goes around, and they say one nice thing about someone in the family that they did for them that week. It's more of an exercise for the kids so they appreciate each other, but it's also good for me and my wife to acknowledge each other.
MOVIE NIGHT We try to watch a funny movie that's appropriate for everyone, though that's getting harder and harder. The whole family gave a thumbs-up to "The Sandlot," and we've been watching some of the Adam Sandler comedies. Everyone loved "You Are So Not Invited to My Bat Mitzvah," which he did with his wife and his daughters.
BEDTIME, ROUND 1 We try to get the kids to bed by 8:45. Some of the baseball playoffs have been going pretty late, though, so if it's a close game, I'll sometimes let my son stay up a little later. He would stay up all night watching the game if he could, but he can't, so I have to tell him in the morning who won.
TV FIX After the kids are in bed, I'll read, pray and then watch something with my wife. Lately, we've been bingeing "The Perfect Couple" with Nicole Kidman on Netflix. My wife won't watch thrillers or anything scary at night, so there's a small window of things we can watch together before bed!
BEDTIME, ROUND 2 If I can fall asleep before 10, that's a huge win. But sometimes I can't -- we're in one of the most intense news cycles I've ever been through, and clearing my head can be hard. But I would rather get up in the early morning and attack the day, and I know if I want to get up early, I need to get that rest in.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREGG VIGLIOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page MB2.

Subject: Pizza; Tournaments & championships; Baseball; Physical fitness; Hurricanes; Sons; Weightlifting

Location: New York City New York; Florida; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/26/nyregion/tom-llamas-nbc.html

Title: At Home, Plenty of Good News:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 27, 2024

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: Unite d States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3120938734

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-home-plenty-good-news/docview/3120938734/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 27, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

India Lawmakers Own and Operate Sugar Mills Exploiting Labor: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam

Publication info: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/india-lawmakers-own-operate-sugar-mills/docview/3115650848/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Politicians run most of the mills in the state of Maharashtra. They deny or downplay evidence of coerced hysterectomies, debt bondage and child labor in the fields.
In the sweltering sugar fields of the western Indian state of Maharashtra, abusive practices such as debt bondage and child labor have long been an open secret. But in 2019, a state lawmaker named Neelam Gorhe documented a new level of brutality: Female workers were getting unnecessary hysterectomies at alarmingly high rates.
She presented her findings to the state's health minister and alerted the region's sugar regulator. She called on her government colleagues to ensure that workers received basic services including toilets, running water and a minimum wage -- all in accordance with Indian law.
Yet most lawmakers apparently ignored the report, or read it and moved on. They launched no further investigation and passed no laws. The abuses, detailed in an investigation that ran in The New York Times, remain as widespread as ever, and young women continue to be coerced into unnecessary and potentially life-altering hysterectomies.
The reason, to many in Maharashtra, is obvious. Sugar is among the state's most important industries, one that sells to big brand buyers such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi, and is heavily controlled by the political elite.
Most of the state's sugar mills are led by sitting lawmakers or political figures, a new investigation by The New York Times and The Fuller Project found. That includes at least 21 state lawmakers, four members of the national Parliament, five government ministers and nearly 50 former officials. Mill bosses come from every party -- both in government leadership and opposition -- including the Indian National Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Shiv Sena and the National Congress Party.
Countless other mills have business or family ties to politicians and lawmakers.
That means, in many cases, that the very people who could protect workers are also profiting from their exploitation.
"No one is on our side," said Archana Ashok Chaure, a sugar laborer in her mid-30s who, since about age 14, has cut sugar for a Coca-Cola supplier. She suffered debilitating side effects last year after a hysterectomy that medical records showed was unnecessary.
The links between industry and politics are so close that some sugar mills list on their websites the government connections of their current and former executives.
"Not all politicians own sugar mills," said Dilip Walse Patil, a state government minister and sugar mill founding director. "But most of the mills are led by politicians."
Even the state's former top sugar regulator, Shekhar Gaikwad, said that enforcing labor regulations or pushing for change was all but impossible because it meant taking on the state's political elite. "It's a clear conflict of interest," he said.
The earlier investigation by The Times and The Fuller Project revealed a brutal system in Maharashtra that controls women's lives from early adolescence. Young girls are pushed into marriages at illegally young ages to cut sugar with their husbands. Debt to their employers forces them to return, season after season. Working-age women said they felt pressured to get hysterectomies to resolve common ailments such as painful periods so they could keep working.
Government officials have used their political weight to maintain that status quo. In court documents reviewed by The Times, officials downplayed the abuses or denied that they occurred. In interviews, lawmakers and politicians said that, despite the evidence, the accounts of hysterectomies were overblown or false.
"I have not come across such things," Balasaheb Thorat, a former state revenue minister from the Congress party, said when asked about the hysterectomies. Mr. Thorat is a figure at a sugar mill named after his father. "I have not heard a single woman complain to me about these issues," he added.
Dhananjay Munde, the state's agriculture minister and a member of the National Congress Party, said that he remembers Ms. Gorhe's report. But Mr. Munde, whose wife and cousin operate sugar mills, dismissed it. "It was a huge report," he said, "but it was half of the truth."
After the Times and Fuller Project investigation, the U.S. Department of Labor added Indian sugar cane to its list of commodities made with forced labor. The list is intended in part to encourage foreign governments to crack down on labor abuses.
But as long as there are customers for sugar, the authorities in Maharashtra seem unlikely to force change.
And there are customers. International brands including Coca-Cola, Pepsico, Unilever and others, as well as major Indian companies, buy sugar from Maharashtra. Both Coca-Cola and Pepsico pledged this year to look into abuses identified in their supply chains, but they have provided no detail on what steps they have taken.
An Industry Built on Exploitation
Practically since Indian independence in 1947, local landowners have banded together to build and operate mills, share profits and finance public projects like schools.
These cooperatives elected chairs whose political power swelled as Maharashtra's fledgling sugar industry grew into one of India's most important.
"A lot of these very old-school kind of family politicians have used this as a springboard for their entry into politics," said Sandip Sukhtankar, a professor of economics at the University of Virginia who has studied the political connections of Maharashtra's sugar mills.
Among the sugar barons are some of Maharashtra's most prominent figures. Sharad Pawar, who along with allies controls several sugar mills, is one of India's best-known politicians. Pankaja Munde, Dhananjay Munde's cousin and a state lawmaker from the Bharatiya Janata Party, controls a sugar mill opened by her father, who was himself a government minister. And Jayant Patil, a political ally of Mr. Pawar and a state lawmaker for three decades, is a director and adviser at least one mill in the district of Sangli.
The Times has not linked any of these politicians to specific cases of abuse. But its reporting, along with Ms. Gorhe's report and research by labor groups, has found that abuses are widespread throughout the region and linked to its system of recruiting laborers.
The industry, and in turn its political clout, has long been based on exploitation.
Elsewhere in India, farm owners directly hire labor to harvest their sugar cane, which is then sold to mills for processing. But in Maharashtra, the mills hire contractors to recruit migrant workers to do the harvesting. The mills argue that, technically, the laborers work for the contractors.
Instead of wages, Maharashtra workers receive an advance every season, paid by the contractors with money from the mills. That serves as a kind of loan, one that is all but impossible to pay off in a single season and that keeps workers returning year after year.
Because the workers typically do not own land, they cannot participate in the cooperative system. So, as mill executives profited, ran for office and established political power, the chasm between them and their workers grew.
Today, many of the mills are now private, not cooperative, but all benefit from the same system. It can be hard to separate the interests of the government from those of the sugar barons.
"They use their political powers to suppress the issues in the sugar industry," said Devappa Anna Shetti, a former member of Parliament who heads a small political party in his home state of Maharashtra. "This is being done deliberately."
Some politicians argue that the relationship is beneficial. "If a sugar factory and a lawmaker are on the same page, for instance, it's not an issue," Mr. Thorat said. "It can help. They both want to grow the economy."
Historically, Professor Sukhtankar said, the two most powerful political parties -- Congress and the National Congress Party -- had the most control over sugar mills. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's party, the B.J.P., has also grown in clout in the sugar industry in tandem with its rise in power in Maharashtra.
None of the parties has an incentive to challenge an arrangement that has been at the heart of the industry since its birth.
'Laborers Are Not Employees'
Indian employers are required to pay a minimum wage and to provide benefits, including pension contributions. In recent years, the country has begun extending protections to workers in the gig economy.
Labor laws would seem to cover the sugar laborers. But mill leaders say that the longstanding arrangement with the middleman contractors absolves them of responsibility.
Mr. Gaikwad, the former sugar regulator, said that claim was an effort "to evade the clutches of these labor laws."
The contractors, often young men whose only qualification is owning a car, say they cannot be held responsible for labor conditions they do not control. They pay the laborers with money from the mills. The government has made no effort to force these contractors to comply with labor laws.
Mr. Gaikwad ran the office that licensed sugar factories. But he said that he was powerless to do more than offer "mandates in the form of advisories." Enforcing the laws requires political will, he said. And the politicians are not merely in lock step with the mill executives -- they are the mill executives.
Mr. Pawar is the patriarch of one of the state's most important political dynasties. At 83, he has served as Maharashtra's top official for four terms. He has led the National Congress Party for decades. The party split last year, and he now leads one of the two sides. Asked whether sugar mills should provide any protections at all for laborers, he shook his head.
"Laborers are not employees," he said.
That distinction is important because, if they worked for the mills, factory executives could be forced not only to pay a minimum wage but also to provide sick days.
Instead, sugar cane cutters must pay their contractors for a day off, even for a doctor's visit. So women often forgo routine gynecological care and are encouraged to seek hysterectomies for issues like painful periods or cysts, or as a drastic form of uterine cancer prevention.
Changing that arrangement could fundamentally change the way Maharashtra produces sugar. Sanjay Khatal, managing director of a major lobbying group for sugar mills, hinted at the industry's reluctance. "It's a contentious issue," he said.
'Children Are Not Allowed to Work'
Last year, the acting chief justice of Maharashtra's top court read an article in the newspaper The Hindu about how sugar cane laborers lived in poverty, on the social and economic fringe of society.
Concerned, he opened a case and asked government officials, industry leaders, labor activists and researchers to submit court papers on the issue.
The records are not public, but affidavits reviewed by The Times reveal a pattern of dismissiveness among state officials. One document, filed on behalf of state agencies, said that problems did not exist or were not that severe.
The affidavit denied that child labor was prevalent. "Children are not allowed to work in sugar cane cutting," the affidavit said. As a practical matter, it said, cutting sugar was too difficult for children.
That claim was rebutted by nearly every laborer interviewed by The Times and The Fuller Project. Most women said they themselves had begun working when they were underage. A Times photographer witnessed children cutting cane. Many other children perform basic tasks like fetching water, interviewees said.
The affidavit declared that the workers were "free to move" and not locked in debt bondage. Yet even the contractors acknowledge that it is all but impossible for families to repay their debts in a single season.
And, in an oblique reference to Ms. Gorhe's report on hysterectomies, the agencies suggested that her concerns were overblown. They said that about 17 percent of female sugar laborers had received the surgery -- less than the 20 percent that Ms. Gorhe found and the nearly 33 percent cited in another report.
The government said that it had already instructed the sugar companies to provide housing for workers. And it pointed to the work of a state welfare board.
The board said that it, too, had done all it could. In its own affidavit, it said it had registered workers and built hostels for their children to stay during harvest.
Enforcing labor laws, a board representative said, was the responsibility of the state government.
A court-appointed inquiry found evidence of child labor, debt bondage and "atrocious" working conditions that harmed women's health.
It also found a pattern of hysterectomies, according to an affidavit. "Since menstruation leads to a fall in productivity, it was more convenient for the women workers to get their uteruses removed," it said.
Chandan Kumar, a labor-rights activist in Pune, Maharashtra, who helped conduct the study, said government officials were denying reality.
"This kind of rosy picture, given by this government department, is a lie," said Mr. Kumar, of the Working People's Charter Network, which focuses on organizing workers in the informal economy. "The government is trying to cover up wrongdoing."
This year, the acting chief justice who had taken an interest in the issue was transferred from the state.
The case had already been creeping through the notoriously backlogged Indian court system. Now, its fate is unclear. A hearing is due, but no date is set.
Photograph Workers at a field in Pawarwadi, India. Sugar is the most important industry in the state of Maharashtra, one that sells to big buyers such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi.; Archana Ashok Chaure, a sugar laborer, suffered debilitating side effects from a hysterectomy that was medically unnecessary.; Sharad Pawar, 83, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister, is the patriarch of one of the state's longstanding political dynasties. He and his family also maintain control over several sugar mills.; Sanjay Khatal, managing director of a sugar mill lobbying group, said owners have no desire to challenge the status quo.; NSL Sugars, a sugar factory in Beed, India. Most of Maharashtra's sugar mills are led by sitting lawmakers or political figures.; Shekhar Gaikwad, former sugar commissioner for Maharashtra, said pushing for change would mean taking on the political elite. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAUMYA KHANDELWAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) This article appeared in print on page A1, A11.

Subject: Young adults; Hysterectomy; Politics; Sugar industry; Legislators; Child labor; Contractors; Labor law; Cooperatives; Political power; Manual workers; Sugarcane; Politicians; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Sugar industry Child labor Contractors Labor law Cooperatives Manual workers Factories

Location: New York; United States--US; India

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120; Name: Bharatiya Janata Party; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/11/world/europe/india-sugar-worker-abuse-maharashtra-politicians.html

Title: India Lawmakers Own and Operate Sugar Mills Exploiting Labor:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 12, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3115650848

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/india-lawmakers-own-operate-sugar-mills/docview/3115650848/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why Politicians Ignore Abuses in India’s Sugar Industry: They Run It

Author: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam

Publication info: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-politicians-ignore-abuses-india-s-sugar/docview/3115595815/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MUMBAI, India — In the sweltering sugar fields of the western Indian state of Maharashtra, abusive practices such as debt bondage and child labor have long been an open secret. But in 2019, a state lawmaker named Neelam Gorhe documented a new level of brutality: Female workers were getting unnecessary hysterectomies at alarmingly high rates.
She presented her findings to the state’s health minister and alerted the region’s sugar regulator. She called on her government colleagues to ensure that workers received basic services including toilets, running water and a minimum wage — all in accordance with Indian law.
Yet most lawmakers apparently ignored the report, or read it and moved on. They launched no further investigation and passed no laws. The abuses, detailed in an investigation that ran in The New York Times, remain as widespread as ever, and young women continue to be coerced into unnecessary and potentially life-altering hysterectomies.
The reason, to many in Maharashtra, is obvious. Sugar is among the state’s most important industries, one that sells to big brand buyers such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi, and is heavily controlled by the political elite.
Most of the state’s sugar mills are led by sitting lawmakers or political figures, a new investigation by The New York Times and The Fuller Project found. That includes at least 21 state lawmakers, four members of the national parliament, five government ministers and nearly 50 former officials. Mill bosses come from every party — both in government leadership and opposition — including the Indian National Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Shiv Sena and the National Congress Party.
Countless other mills have business or family ties to politicians and lawmakers.
That means, in many cases, that the very people who could protect workers are also profiting from their exploitation.
“No one is on our side,” said Archana Ashok Chaure, a sugar laborer in her mid-30s who, since about age 14, has cut sugar for a Coca-Cola supplier. She suffered debilitating side effects last year after a hysterectomy that medical records showed was unnecessary.
The links between industry and politics are so close that some sugar mills list on their websites the government connections of their current and former executives.
“Not all politicians own sugar mills,” said Dilip Walse Patil, a state government minister and sugar mill founding director. “But most of the mills are led by politicians.”
Even the state’s former top sugar regulator, Shekhar Gaikwad, said that enforcing labor regulations or pushing for change was all but impossible because it meant taking on the state’s political elite. “It’s a clear conflict of interest,” he said.
The earlier investigation by the Times and The Fuller Project revealed a brutal system in Maharashtra that controls women’s lives from early adolescence. Young girls are pushed into marriages at illegally young ages to cut sugar with their husbands. Debt to their employers forces them to return, season after season. Working-age women said they felt pressured to get hysterectomies to resolve common ailments such as painful periods so they could keep working.
Government officials have used their political weight to maintain that status quo. In court documents reviewed by the Times, officials downplayed the abuses or denied that they occurred. In interviews, lawmakers and politicians said that, despite the evidence, the accounts of hysterectomies were overblown or false.
“I have not come across such things,” Balasaheb Thorat, a former state revenue minister from the Congress party, said when asked about the hysterectomies. Thorat is a figure at a sugar mill named after his father. “I have not heard a single woman complain to me about these issues,” he added.
Dhananjay Munde, the state’s agriculture minister and a member of the National Congress Party, said that he remembers Gorhe’s report. But Munde, whose wife and cousin operate sugar mills, dismissed it. “It was a huge report,” he said, “but it was half of the truth.”
After the Times and Fuller Project investigation, the U.S. Department of Labor added Indian sugar cane to its list of commodities made with forced labor. The list is intended in part to encourage foreign governments to crack down on labor abuses.
But as long as there are customers for sugar, the authorities in Maharashtra seem unlikely to force change.
And there are customers. International brands including Coca-Cola, Pepsico, Unilever and others, as well as major Indian companies, buy sugar from Maharashtra. Both Coca-Cola and Pepsico pledged this year to look into abuses identified in their supply chains, but they have provided no detail on what steps they have taken.
An Industry Built on Exploitation
Practically since Indian independence in 1947, local landowners have banded together to build and operate mills, share profits and finance public projects like schools.
These cooperatives elected chairs whose political power swelled as Maharashtra’s fledgling sugar industry grew into one of India’s most important.
“A lot of these very old-school kind of family politicians have used this as a springboard for their entry into politics,” said Sandip Sukhtankar, a professor of economics at the University of Virginia who has studied the political connections of Maharashtra’s sugar mills.
Among the sugar barons are some of Maharashtra’s most prominent figures. Sharad Pawar, who along with allies controls several sugar mills, is one of India’s best-known politicians. Pankaja Munde, Dhananjay Munde’s cousin and a state lawmaker from the Bharatiya Janata Party, controls a sugar mill opened by her father, who was himself a government minister. And Jayant Patil, a political ally of Pawar and a state lawmaker for three decades, is a director and adviser at least one mill in the district of Sangli.
The Times has not linked any of these politicians to specific cases of abuse. But its reporting, along with Gorhe’s report and research by labor groups, has found that abuses are widespread throughout the region and linked to its system of recruiting laborers.
The industry, and in turn its political clout, has long been based on exploitation.
Elsewhere in India, farm owners directly hire labor to harvest their sugar cane, which is then sold to mills for processing. But in Maharashtra, the mills hire contractors to recruit migrant workers to do the harvesting. The mills argue that, technically, the laborers work for the contractors.
Instead of wages, Maharashtra workers receive an advance every season, paid by the contractors with money from the mills. That serves as a kind of loan, one that is all but impossible to pay off in a single season and that keeps workers returning year after year.
Because the workers typically do not own land, they cannot participate in the cooperative system. So, as mill executives profited, ran for office and established political power, the chasm between them and their workers grew.
Today, many of the mills are now private, not cooperative, but all benefit from the same system. It can be hard to separate the interests of the government from those of the sugar barons.
“They use their political powers to suppress the issues in the sugar industry,” said Devappa Anna Shetti, a former member of parliament who heads a small political party in his home state of Maharashtra. “This is being done deliberately.”
Some politicians argue that the relationship is beneficial. “If a sugar factory and a lawmaker are on the same page, for instance, it’s not an issue,” Thorat said. “It can help. They both want to grow the economy.”
Historically, Sukhtankar said, the two most powerful political parties — Congress and the National Congress Party — had the most control over sugar mills. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s party, the BJP, has also grown in clout in the sugar industry in tandem with its rise in power in Maharashtra.
None of the parties has an incentive to challenge an arrangement that has been at the heart of the industry since its birth.
‘Laborers Are Not Employees’
Indian employers are required to pay a minimum wage and to provide benefits, including pension contributions. In recent years, the country has begun extending protections to workers in the gig economy.
Labor laws would seem to cover the sugar laborers. But mill leaders say that the long-standing arrangement with the middleman contractors absolves them of responsibility.
Gaikwad, the former sugar regulator, said that claim was an effort “to evade the clutches of these labor laws.”
The contractors, often young men whose only qualification is owning a car, say they cannot be held responsible for labor conditions they do not control. They pay the laborers with money from the mills. The government has made no effort to force these contractors to comply with labor laws.
Gaikwad ran the office that licensed sugar factories. But he said that he was powerless to do more than offer “mandates in the form of advisories.” Enforcing the laws requires political will, he said. And the politicians are not merely in lock step with the mill executives — they are the mill executives.
Pawar is the patriarch of one of the state’s most important political dynasties. At 83, he has served as Maharashtra’s top official for four terms. He has led the National Congress Party for decades. The party split last year and he now leads one of the two sides. Asked whether sugar mills should provide any protections at all for laborers, he shook his head.
“Laborers are not employees,” he said.
That distinction is important because, if they worked for the mills, factory executives could be forced not only to pay a minimum wage but also to provide sick days.
Instead, sugar cane cutters must pay their contractors for a day off, even for a doctor’s visit. So women often forgo routine gynecological care and are encouraged to seek hysterectomies for issues such as painful periods or cysts, or as a drastic form of uterine cancer prevention.
Changing that arrangement could fundamentally change the way Maharashtra produces sugar. Sanjay Khatal, managing director of a major lobbying group for sugar mills, hinted at the industry’s reluctance. “It’s a contentious issue,” he said.
‘Children Are Not Allowed to Work’
Last year, the acting chief justice of Maharashtra’s top court read an article in the newspaper The Hindu about how sugar cane laborers lived in poverty, on the social and economic fringe of society.
Concerned, he opened a case and asked government officials, industry leaders, labor activists and researchers to submit court papers on the issue.
The records are not public, but affidavits reviewed by the Times reveal a pattern of dismissiveness among state officials. One document, filed on behalf of state agencies, said that problems did not exist or were not that severe.
The affidavit denied that child labor was prevalent. “Children are not allowed to work in sugar cane cutting,” the affidavit said. As a practical matter, it said, cutting sugar was too difficult for children.
That claim was rebutted by nearly every laborer interviewed by the Times and The Fuller Project. Most women said they themselves had begun working when they were underage. A Times photographer witnessed children cutting cane. Many other children perform basic tasks like fetching water, interviewees said.
The affidavit declared that the workers were “free to move” and not locked in debt bondage. Yet even the contractors acknowledge that it is all but impossible for families to repay their debts in a single season.
And, in an oblique reference to Gorhe’s report on hysterectomies, the agencies suggested that her concerns were overblown. They said that about 17% of female sugar laborers had received the surgery — less than the 20% that Gorhe found and the nearly 33% cited in another report.
The government said that it had already instructed the sugar companies to provide housing for workers. And it pointed to the work of a state welfare board.
The board said that it, too, had done all it could. In its own affidavit, it said it had registered workers and built hostels for their children to stay during harvest.
Enforcing labor laws, a board representative said, was the responsibility of the state government.
A court-appointed inquiry found evidence of child labor, debt bondage and “atrocious” working conditions that harmed women’s health.
It also found a pattern of hysterectomies, according to an affidavit. “Since menstruation leads to a fall in productivity, it was more convenient for the women workers to get their uteruses removed,” it said.
Chandan Kumar, a labor-rights activist in Pune, Maharashtra who helped conduct the study, said government officials were denying reality.
“This kind of rosy picture, given by this government department is a lie,” said Kumar, of the Working People’s Charter Network, which focuses on organizing workers in the informal economy. “The government is trying to cover up wrongdoing.”
This year, the acting chief justice who had taken an interest in the issue was transferred from the state.
The case had already been creeping through the notoriously backlogged Indian court system. Now, its fate is unclear. A hearing is due, but no date is set.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Young adults; Politics; Hysterectomy; Sugar industry; Legislators; Contractors; Labor law; Cooperatives; Political power; Manual workers; Sugarcane; Politicians; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Sugar industry Contractors Labor law Cooperatives Manual workers Factories

Location: New York; United States--US; India

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120; Name: Bharatiya Janata Party; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Assaults; Coca Cola Company; Pepsico Inc; Hiring And Promotion; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Customer Relations; Legislatures And Parliaments; India; Government Contracts And Procurement; Minimum Wage; United States; Agriculture And Farming; Sugar; Youth; Elections; Politics And Government; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Lobbying And Lobbyists; Wages And Salaries; Women And Girls; Hysterectomies; World; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; News And News Media; Child Labor; Law And Legislation; Shutdowns (Institutional); Migrant Labor (Agriculture); University Of Virginia; Factories And Manufacturing; Shiv Sena; States (Us); Newspapers; Executive Compensation; Nepotism; Labor Department (Us); Indian National Congress; Malpractice; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Freelancing, Self Employment And Independent Contracting; Virginia; Maharashtra (India); Paid Time Off; Unilever Nv; Bharatiya Janata Party; Soft Drinks; Pune (India); United States Economy; New York Times; Forced Labor; Beverages; Modi, Narendra; Ethics And Official Misconduct; Age, Chronological

Title: Why Politicians Ignore Abuses in India’s Sugar Industry: They Run It

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 11, 2024

Dateline: 2024-10-11T21:54:50Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3115595815

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-politicians-ignore-abuses-india-s-sugar/docview/3115595815/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Soda Drinkers Stir the Debate: [Style Desk]

Author: Conte, Annemarie

Publication info: Conte, Annemarie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/soda-drinkers-stir-debate/docview/3114637915/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Opinions abound on how to customize the popular soda. Purists, meanwhile, will see you at McDonald's.
The latest battle in the soda wars isn't Coke versus Pepsi. It's Diet Coke versus Diet Coke, and the fandom is bubbling over on social media.
Every week there seems to be a new cola add-on to try. In a video that divided the internet, the singer Dua Lipa showed off a concoction of Diet Coke mixed with pickle juice, jalapeño sauce, jalapeños and pickles. Before that, TikTok was flooded with the so-called Protein Diet Coke, which combines the soda with a vanilla protein shake. Search long enough and you will find people doctoring their Diet Cokes with milk, lemon, coconut or just about any other flavor imaginable.
On the other side of the spectrum are the Diet Coke purists. They are on social media discussing the "crispiness" of the soda in its various forms -- canned, bottled and fountain -- and many can nail the subtle differences in the Diet Coke Challenge, in which multiple "varietals" of the soda are shown to the audience but not the taster. To the purists, the Platonic ideal is a Diet Coke straight from the tap at McDonald's, where the fountain sodas are still supplied with syrup from stainless-steel tubs, rather than from plastic bags.
"The only way to be a Diet Coke lover is to be a purist, and at this point I barely even accept a bottle as a real Diet Coke," Keltie Knight, an E! News host who recently completed the Diet Coke Challenge, said by email. "Diet Coke is my best friend and my worst enemy."
The purists have no trouble holding their ground against their amateur mixologist competition. However, the customization trend is only getting bigger, with seemingly everything suddenly being a potential mixer to go with your Diet Coke, harking back to the days of 1950s soda jerks customizing your drink while you waited.
There are the common alcohol add-ons like Jack Daniel's and Bacardi. You can mix it with red wine in a drink known as a kalimotxo. And nonalcoholic options have cropped up as well, fueled through social media and the streaming show "The Secret Lives of Mormon Wives," where soda consumption often substitutes for coffee and tea, which are discouraged by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
But while the concept of a "Dirty Soda," with various add-ons is hardly new -- Swig, a Utah-based soda shop, has been making them since 2010, and Sonic has taken the trend nationwide at its drive-ins -- the Protein Diet Coke caught a wave of attention. The recipe is simple: You mix a Diet Coke with a Fairlife protein shake. The drink had people discussing its health benefits, even if experts have repeatedly pointed to the risks of aspartame, which is found in thousands of sugar-free products, including diet soda.
While she did not invent the Protein Diet Coke, Rebecca Gordon, a content creator on TikTok, helped turn the drink from curiosity to full-fledged trend with a video that has more than 175,000 likes.
"I'm getting ready in the morning and going to the gas station and filling up 40 ounces of diet soda," she said when discussing why the mixture appealed to her. "And I also really like protein drinks."
She added: "I wasn't expecting it to go as big as it did, but I'm not lying when I say that it's good."
Not to let amateurs have all the fun, Coca-Cola has tried to get in on the action by making its own unexpected flavor combinations.
Over the years, the company has experimented widely, releasing both permanent and limited-edition varietals, like Cherry Coke, a longtime success story, and more niche offerings like BlāK and Zero Sugar Oreo. The company also enabled easy customization with the introduction of Freestyle machines in 2009.
In a somewhat surprising move, Coca-Cola recently introduced what it said would be a permanent line of drinks -- Coca-Cola Spiced -- only to discontinue the line seven months later. It was part of a culling of flavors in which Cherry Vanilla, launched in 2009, and Orange Vanilla, which used to be in cans but was limited to Freestyle machines in recent years, were removed as well.
"People have been heartbroken over the loss of Cherry Vanilla and Orange Vanilla," Zach Ciampa, who covers new food releases on social media, said of the changes to Coke's offerings.
But they should not despair. Coke announced on Tuesday that the company will be releasing a new Sprite + Tea flavor ("a very common internet hack in its own right," according to Mr. Ciampa) as well as an Orange Cream Coke.
Those who can't wait for Orange Cream are in luck: Ms. Gordon, fresh off her Protein Diet Coke fame, announced in a recent video that a Protein Orange Creamsicle is now a thing.
The purists, meanwhile, can be found at McDonald's where the Diet Cokes are rather plain but extra crispy.
Photograph Above, the basic Diet Coke in bottles, but even that can start an argument. Left, Keltie Knight on Instagram taking the Diet Coke Challenge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page D2.

Subject: Social networks; Soft drinks; Proteins

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/08/style/diet-coke-dua-lipa-protein.html

Title: Soda Drinkers Stir the Debate:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Ti mes, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Oct 10, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3114637915

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/soda-drinkers-stir-debate/do cview/3114637915/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 10, 2024

Last updated: 2024-10-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

On the Waterfront, a Break From Urban Life: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Stack, Liam

Publication info: Stack, Liam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-waterfront-break-urban-life/docview/3099220481/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When the sun comes out, New Yorkers flock to the city's piers. They bring picnic blankets and coolers, sunscreen and speakers, to places where decades ago longshoremen unloaded goods from cargo ships.
New York has changed since then, and so too have its piers.
The city was once a major industrial center, producing everything from Pepsi-Cola to World War II munitions. The waterfront brought those goods to the world, and New York's piers buzzed with the loading and unloading of ships.
But the decline of manufacturing left the piers derelict and unused, both a symbol and a symptom of the city's changing fortunes. They were often rife with crime and drug use at a time when both ills brought New York to the edge of ruin.
That began to change in the 1990s, after a sharp drop in crime, an economic boom and the city's shift to a knowledge-based economy. New York started to reimagine the waterfront as a common good and many piers have been transformed into well-kept public backyards.
Queens: A Gateway to a Booming Borough
Gantry Plaza State Park in Long Island City teems with life on a sunny day.
Dance troupes practice their kicks and twirls. Children run from tree to tree, their exhausted parents not far behind. Young lovers seek solitude at the end of the piers, to either make out or break up.
It was not always like this. The park is named for the towering machines called gantries that once unloaded cargo ships at the piers. Several of them still stand in the park, which is also dotted with old railroad tracks.
Patricia Foley, 60, sat on a bench in the middle of the tracks while her dog Callie, 15, lounged in a stroller nearby. Ms. Foley often comes here from the Upper East Side to relax and take in views of Manhattan across the East River.
"I tell my friends about the park here," she said. "They say, 'Oh, you want us to come to Long Island City?' Before you wouldn't do that, but it's so nice here now."
Jason D. Antos, the executive director of the Queens Historical Society, did spend time on these piers back in the day. But not in the way that Ms. Foley and so many others do now.
The park did not exist when he was a child. He came to the warehouses with his parents, who owned a luncheonette, to buy bulk restaurant supplies -- tin foil, napkins, plastic forks -- in the 1980s and '90s. Sometimes he would help carry their wares back to the car.
"You had to be careful because you'd have like 1,000 napkins tied together and if you dropped them, forget it, they'd fly all over the place," he laughed.
Back then, the pier was "very desolate and very eerie," said Mr. Antos.
"To see its transformation is amazing."
Brooklyn: An Escape to Another World
Travelers once came to the piers in Bay Ridge to board ferries to Staten Island, before the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge connected the two boroughs in 1964.
Today, people mainly come to the American Veterans Memorial Pier here for striped bass and sunsets.
Arika Brown, 25, and her wife, Julia Heaney, 26, bike to the pier from their apartment every day at dusk. From there, they get a cinematic view of the bridge, Staten Island, the Jersey City skyline, the Statue of Liberty and the towers of Lower Manhattan.
"So many people live in Brooklyn but they don't come down here," said Ms. Brown. "They think Bay Ridge is too far away."
Bay Ridge has often felt a bit different from the rest of New York. It is buffeted by sea wind on two sides, and enjoys a view available in few other neighborhoods.
That is why Ken Wang, 27, and his girlfriend Jiaqui Zhou, 24, love it.
"You feel a lot of stress in Manhattan," said Mr. Wang, who works at a Manhattan bank. "But when you come here you feel different."
On a recent day, children raced scooters; older men fished for bluefish, flounder and fluke; and young lovers planned for the future, even if that just meant looking up nearby dinner spots on Yelp.
Mr. Wang smiled broadly, and gestured to the expanse of water all around him and Ms. Zhou.
"Look at this view," he said. "This is why we come here."
Manhattan: A Haven on the Edge of the City
The Christopher Street Pier is a luxurious grassy beach on the West Side.
On a recent Friday, diners enjoyed lobster BLTs at the pier's upscale restaurant, while fit men sunbathed nearby. Couples danced the tango to music blasting from a portable speaker.
Joseph Soul, 36, stops at the Christopher Street Pier on his daily afternoon jog, sometimes taking in the sunset, because "it is so pretty and well managed."
The pier became famous as a gay hangout during the 1970s and '80s, when it was decrepit and abandoned. Back then, society was far less accepting of L.G.B.T.Q. people, and in the '80s and early '90s, the AIDS crisis was at its peak. The crowd at the piers was largely made up of poor and working-class gay and transgender people of color, a scene that was documented by the photographers Peter Hujar and Alvin Baltrop.
It was a haven, but it was not safe.
Marsha P. Johnson, a central player in the early L.G.B.T.Q. rights movement, used to hang out there, and in 1992 she was found dead in the water. Her ashes were sprinkled in the Hudson River nearby.
Today, the composition of the crowd at the pier has changed.
Greenwich Village is now one of the most expensive neighborhoods in the country and the pier now draws many well-heeled New Yorkers who come to relax.
The pier still attracts a largely L.G.B.T.Q. crowd, however, and the community of poor and homeless queer youth has remained.
Ivan Marcano, 35, lay reading in the sun after work on a Friday afternoon.
"The pier is great because it's a bit of greenery in the city and it's mostly queer," said Mr. Marcano, who left Venezuela almost 20 years ago to live more openly as a gay man.
"It's nice to have a break from all the concrete," he said. "There aren't many places in the city that feel like an escape."
Staten Island: A View of Water and Dolphins
When you stand on the Ocean Breeze Fishing Pier, New York City feels 1,000 miles away.
The only evidence of the skyline is the spire of the World Trade Center, visible over the tree tops of central Staten Island. The pier reaches out from the Midland Beach neighborhood, 800 feet into Lower New York Bay, which opens onto the Atlantic Ocean.
From the pier's tip, you can watch cruise ships disappear over the horizon, and on a lucky day you might see dolphins or whales pass by.
Oscar Herrera, 40, brings his children to the pier almost every weekend.
"I like to get the kids out of the house, because otherwise they just spend all day watching TV or on the tablets," said Mr. Herrera, who has lived nearby for almost 20 years. As he spoke, his son, Enrique, 4, curiously poked his finger into a cup full of bait worms.
The biggest fish his children ever caught was about eight inches long, Mr. Herrera said, but he has had better luck. Earlier this year, he caught a 38-inch-long striped bass. And three years ago, a friend of his caught a turtle that weighed 60 pounds. It took three men to hoist the animal back into the sea.
In the early 20th century, the area was home to a busy shore front entertainment district, with amusement park rides and casinos, said Carli DeFillo, the collections manager at Historic Richmond Town, the local historical society.
Later, the area became blighted. Roughly one dozen fires were set by vandals over the years.
The pier opened in 2003 to great fanfare. These days, the sandy beaches on the shore are clean and the summer air is filled with the song of cicadas.
The Bronx: A Miniature Oasis in a Busy Hub
While crowds flock to some of the city's piers, others remain solitary places.
The Hunts Point neighborhood in the Bronx still retains some of the industrial character that used to define the waterfront across the city. It is home to one of the world's biggest wholesale distributors, where an estimated 4.5 billion pounds of meat, fish and produce is sold each year.
Not far from there, just off Food Center Drive, is the pier at Hunts Point Landing. It is a quiet and sometimes forgotten patch of calm in a hectic area. The grass is overgrown, and it draws few of the families or sunbathers so often found at piers elsewhere in the city.
Fishermen sometimes cast their lines into the water near where the Bronx River and the East River meet. Across the bay is a view of La Guardia Airport and Rikers Island, two of the city's less scenic attractions.
But it is still an oasis amid the parking lots and warehouses overflowing with fish, produce and meat for the hungry city, as many of the piers of New York once were.
Photograph Top, Justyn Clarke at Gantry Plaza State Park in Long Island City, Queens. Second row from left: Christopher Street Pier in Manhattan; Ivan Marcano there; and George DeNoto at the American Veterans Memorial Pier in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Third row from left: Jiaqui Zhou and Ken Wang in Bay Ridge; Alimila Balghinbektegi and her daughter, Begimai, at Gantry Plaza State Park; and children at play there. Above from left: at the Ocean Breeze Fishing Pier on Staten Island, Monisha Paul (center right) and Aurgho Sarker posing for pictures after a surprise engagement; and Brandon Mosley at Hunts Point Landing in the Bronx (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANICE CHUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JUTHARAT PINYODOONYACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SEAN SIROTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; OLGA GINZBURG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ELIAS WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page MB4.

Subject: Parks & recreation areas; Piers

Location: New York; United States--US; Long Island New York

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/31/nyregion/summer-piers-nyc.html

Title: On the Waterfront, a Break From Urban Life:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 1, 2024

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3099220481

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/on-waterfront-break-urban-life/docview/3099220481/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3096466126/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: HOUSING
Sales of New Homes Jumped 10.6% in July
Sales of new U.S. single-family homes rose to their highest level in more than a year in July as a drop in mortgage rates boosted demand, offering more proof that the housing market is recovering.
New home sales jumped 10.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 739,000 units last month, the highest level since May 2023, the Census Bureau said on Friday. It was also the sharpest increase in sales since August 2022.
The sales pace for June was revised higher to 668,000 units from a previously reported 617,000 units.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast new home sales, which account for more than 10 percent of U.S. home sales, to edge up to a rate of 625,000 units.
New home sales are counted at the signing of a contract. They, however, can be volatile on a month-to-month basis. Sales increased 5.6 percent on a year-on-year basis in July. REUTERS
RESTAURANTS
Cava Fast-Food Chain Shares Surge Over 23%
The Mediterranean restaurant chain Cava Group's shares surged over 23 percent to a record high of $ 125.38 on Friday, after strong demand for its salad bowls and pita wraps boosted its annual sales and earnings forecast.
The fast-casual chain, which made a strong market debut in June last year, exceeded second-quarter expectations after markets closed on Thursday, and said the systemwide roll out of grilled steak on June 3 generated stronger than expected sales.
Many Americans are cutting back on dining out due to steadily increasing fast-food prices over the past two years, prompting chains such as McDonald's and Burger King to dole out more offers to attract customers.
Cava, in contrast, took a 3 percent menu price increase in January with no further price increases planned in 2024, Wedbush analyst Nick Setyan noted.
REUTERS
AVIATION
Chief Operating Officer
Is Leaving Delta Air Lines
Delta Air Lines said Friday that its chief operating officer will leave the company next week after a little more than a year in the airline business to take another job.
The departure of Michael Spanos comes a few weeks after Delta canceled thousands of flights during a botched recovery from a global technology outage,
Mr. Spanos spent most of his career at PepsiCo and the Pepsi Bottling Group and was CEO of amusement-park operator Six Flags Entertainment before joining Delta in June 2023. He is one of three executive vice presidents of the Atlanta-based airline.
In a regulatory filing, Delta gave no reason for Mr. Spanos' departure -- only that he would receive severance benefits that he is due under the company's plan for officers and directors.
Mr. Spanos received compensation valued at $ 8.6 million last year, mostly in stock awards. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By Reuters and Associated Press
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Real estate sales; Chief operating officers; Fast food industry

Business indexing term: Subject: Chief operating officers Fast food industry

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Delta Air Lines Inc; NAICS: 481111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/23/business/24bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3096466126

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3096466126/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

At 7, She Thought She 'Might Like to Matter.' Now, She's Iceland's President.: [Correction]

Author: Hurtes, Sarah

Publication info: Hurtes, Sarah. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-7-she-thought-might-like-matter-now-shes/docview/3087632448/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Though the president's role is mostly ceremonial, Halla Tómasdóttir said that she would seek to raise "the right questions" and bring attention to critical health issues.
Seven-year-old Halla Tómasdóttir was confused on her mother's birthday in 1975. Her mother and aunts weren't in the kitchen as usual, instead directing their husbands and brothers to do the work. That was because women were taking the day off to demonstrate their value to society amid Iceland's first national women's strike.
More than four decades later, Ms. Tómasdóttir is the country's new president, nurtured by the message she absorbed on that day.
"They told me they wanted to show the world that they matter," Ms. Tómasdóttir said this week. "I think that was the day I decided I might like to matter."
Ms. Tómasdóttir, a feminist finance expert, clinched the presidency and officially took the reins on Thursday from Guðni Jóhannesson, who stepped down after two four-year terms.
Iceland, a Nordic island nation with a population of about 380,000, operates as a constitutional republic with a parliamentary twist. The president, who is not required to be affiliated with any political party, serves as the head of state but wields mostly ceremonial clout. The real executive muscle lies with the prime minister, typically the leader who can command Parliament's majority.
Still, Ms. Tómasdóttir intends to make a difference.
"My goal is not to be a president with all the answers," she said. "I want to be a president that asks the right questions."
She said one of her first goals was to support initiatives that addressed health issues, such as depression among young people. Even though Iceland has often ranked among the happiest countries in the world in surveys, suicides among young people have raised concern, and the country ranked the highest among European nations for use of antidepressants in 2020, according to Euronews.
"I don't think it's OK to turn the other way when our young people are suffering," she said.
Ms. Tómasdóttir said she drew inspiration from Iceland's history, since it was the first country in the world to democratically elect a female president. She was 11 in 1980 when Vigdís Finnbogadóttir was elected.
Before she pursued leadership roles, Ms. Tómasdóttir studied at Auburn University in Montgomery, Ala., and Thunderbird School of Global Management in Phoenix, Ariz. She then spent nearly a decade working in human resources for Mars, a confectionary company, and Pepsi in the United States. But she felt unfulfilled in those corporate roles, so she returned to Iceland to teach.
"I wanted to have a greater purpose with what I did with my life," she said.
Ms. Tómasdóttir helped create Reykjavík University, where she founded and led Auður, a women's entrepreneurship and empowerment initiative named after a ninth-century female Viking settler known for her leadership and wisdom. Auður also means "good fortune," and clearly came to signify something greater for her.
In 2005, Ms. Tómasdóttir gave birth to a girl whom she named Auður. In 2007, she was a co-founder of an investment firm, also called Auður, that aimed to incorporate values such as risk awareness, honesty and valuing emotional capital into finance. In 2010, she gave a celebrated TED Talk about surviving the financial crash of 2008 because of those values. Even the singer Björk partnered with her firm at the time to establish a venture fund that would invest in socially and environmentally responsible companies, according to media reports.
In 2016, Ms. Tómasdóttir decided to run for president as an independent candidate. Although she did not win, she garnered plenty of support for a political newcomer and was called "a living emoji of sincerity" in an article in The New Yorker.
Her unconventional background, as someone who came from outside the world of politics, was initially met with some skepticism.
"Some intellectuals in Iceland don't like her because she does not have the academic or intellectual background as many of the previous presidents," said Ólafur Þórður Hardarson, a professor of political science at the University of Iceland. "She has, in a way, an American style as a politician."
She faced doubts on May 3, the day of a televised debate, she said, because she was recovering from a cold and "woke up without a voice." She still got in front of the cameras.
That day, she said, she wore her most comfortable jacket, which happened to be pink, and a silk pink scarf, even though she wasn't typically a "pink person." Despite barely having her voice, she performed best among the 12 candidates, according to polls.
Her choice of clothing unexpectedly became the focus of criticism, leading her to express frustration after the debate about how there was too much focus on women's appearance.
"When will we talk about what women have to say and not what they wear?" she said on Friday.
That message resonated with many of her supporters in Iceland, starting a "scarf revolution," she said, in which supporters across demographics wore scarves in solidarity, including at her inauguration ceremony on Thursday.
Photograph Halla Tomasdottir This article appeared in print on page A4.

Subject: Presidents; Women; Personal profiles

Location: Iceland

People: Tomasdottir, Halla

Title: At 7, She Thought She 'Might Like to Matter.' Now, She's Iceland's President.:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 4, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3087632448

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/at-7-she-thought-might-like-matter-now-shes/docview/3087632448/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

For Opening Acts at Major Matches, There Are Rewards ... and Big Risks: [Sports Desk]

Author: Smith, Rory; Panja, Tariq

Publication info: Smith, Rory; Panja, Tariq. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/opening-acts-at-major-matches-there-are-rewards/docview/3079853298/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Performing before a major match like the Euro 2024 final offers priceless visibility, and the nonzero chance that you'll be booed.
Even to some of the most glittering names in music, the pitch is compelling.
There is a gig. It is a very short gig: a tight six minutes or so. It is also unpaid. In exchange, though, the offer promises exposure that borders on priceless: a live crowd numbering somewhere around 70,000, and a captive television audience in the hundreds of millions.
The appeal of serving as the pregame entertainment at one of European soccer's twin showpieces -- the finals of the Champions League and the European Championship -- is so obvious, and the benefits of that brief performance so extravagant, that the likes of Camila Cabello, Alicia Keys and the Black Eyed Peas (albeit without Fergie) have signed up to do it.
There is, however, a catch. For most, what is likely to be one of the most high-profile gigs of their career might also be the riskiest booking in music, one that comes with a nonzero chance of being loudly, unapologetically, unremittingly booed.
Regret is not a guarantee, of course. There are acts that look back on their brush with soccer fondly, artists who serve as beacons of hope for the (somewhat unwieldy) trio that is scheduled to play just before the final of Euro 2024 on Sunday in Berlin. That lineup -- the Italian dance act Meduza, the German singer Leony and the American rock band OneRepublic -- have presumably chosen to focus on the more positive precedents.
Dua Lipa was such a hit at the 2018 Champions League final that she has subsequently suggested she now considers herself an honorary Liverpool fan. Oceana, a German singer who performed at the final of the 2012 European Championship, remembers it as one of the highlights of her career. "The whole stadium was singing," she said in an interview last week.
They, though, are probably the exceptions, rather than the rule. Lenny Kravitz was booed at the Champions League final in London last month. Adam Gyorgy, one of the world's foremost classical pianists, was whistled at the same event last year.
The band Imagine Dragons saw the chance to play the 2019 Champions League final as a way to reach "as many people as we can around the world," its singer, Dan Reynolds, said. They felt their "promotional, upbeat" brand of rock fit neatly with elite sports. They were booed.
Cabello -- already a bona fide superstar when she performed at the 2022 Champions League final in Paris -- was not booed. But she was ignored: A few hours after her performance, a message appeared on her social media chastising the fans in attendance for being "rude," having insisted on singing "their team's anthems so loud during our show." (The post was swiftly deleted.)
It should be stressed that it is unlikely that any of this is personal. It is not a reflection on the artists' popularity or talent or the quality of their set. It is, instead, indicative of soccer's ongoing struggle to balance tradition and modernity, its unease at the blurring of the lines between sports and entertainment, and fans' reflexive resistance to what many of them see as creeping Americanization. The stars are just collateral damage.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
"It wasn't about Lenny Kravitz as a person or musician," said Clemens Boisserée, a Borussia Dortmund fan who booed Kravitz's performance at Wembley last month. "It was booing for UEFA. We were showing them this kind of event is not needed. It is not something supporters want. This was just not the right act at the right time."
Unlike in the United States -- where the Super Bowl halftime show has long been one of the most desirable pieces of entertainment real estate on offer and, for many fans and viewers, a highlight of the event in itself -- the addition of live music to major European soccer finals is still a relatively new phenomenon.
While every European Championship since 1992 has had a designated "anthem," the early efforts were so low key as to verge on self-sabotage: The 1996 song, performed live before the final by the British band Simply Red, was not even included on the official tournament album.
It was not until 2016 that UEFA, European soccer's governing body, decided to add a live act to the Champions League final, the biggest annual game in the sport. But rather than simply copy the N.F.L. and bring the band out as halftime entertainment, UEFA decided to stage its show before kickoff and to sell the rights to Pepsi, a sponsor which has a say in selecting the acts.
The thinking, according to Guy-Laurent Epstein, UEFA's longtime commercial director, was not only practical -- soccer's 15-minute halftime interval is too brief to allow a set to be erected, an act to perform and the staging to be removed -- but a way to ensure that the atmosphere was at its peak immediately before kickoff, when the eyes of the world are focused on the game.
"It finishes six or seven minutes before kickoff, and that gives enough time for fans to build on the performance," he said. "That is the way we want to use it. The Champions League final is entertainment that goes beyond soccer. It's not only for the people in the stadium. It's for the global audience. The stadium is important, people witnessing the show live, but we are talking about 150 million people watching around the world, and we have to find the balance."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
As far as many fans are concerned, though, that balance has been tilted too far one way. Those final few minutes before kickoff are precious, according to Ronan Evain, executive director of Football Supporters Europe, an umbrella body for fans.
Many teams -- as Cabello discovered -- use those last moments before the match to sing their own hymnals, to offer paeans of praise to their heroes and to commune with one another, or to expel nervous energy by casting a rich assortment of aspersions against their opponents. These are important traditions, and ones they do not want to be interrupted, no matter what they might think of Lenny Kravitz.
"The people in charge need to consider the overall atmosphere in the stadium, so that when the atmosphere is at its peak, the musical act does not cover it," Mr. Evain said. That is in the interests of the audience at home, too, he said: They are just as likely to be tuning in for that organic, familiar sound of fans in full voice as they are for a still largely unexpected concert.
The boos, then, are a way of objecting to this unwanted intrusion onto what they view as their sacred space. The only way for the performing artist to avoid being caught in the crossfire is to add to, rather than detract from, that atmosphere.
"I knew it was not about me," Oceana said of her performance in 2012. "It was about the song."
By the time she performed at the final, in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, her song "Endless Summer" had already made the leap from official tournament song to mainstream success. She recalled that most of the stadium seemed to know the words. "Mick Jagger always said that people don't sing along to songs they like, they sing along to songs they know," she said.
She is also convinced that the location helped. "I'd performed a lot in Ukraine, and it was the first time that there had been that kind of big international event in Kyiv," she said. "People were proud to be part of this opening up to the West. It was a way of saying that they loved the same things the rest of Europe does: soccer, and pop music, and having fun."
There was only one real downside, she said. "I'd always toured a lot in France," she said. "But with a more soulful, acoustic vibe. They heard 'Endless Summer' and they were like: 'Why are you singing this commercial stuff? What is this pop song?"'
Still, 12 years on, Oceana is one of the rare artists to have taken on the riskiest gig in music and made it a success. She only has happy memories of the song, the summer and the final. She is still asked to perform it now, and she still accepts, with gusto.
Photograph Dua Lipa, above, was such a hit at the 2018 Champions League final that she has subsequently suggested she now considers herself an honorary Liverpool fan. But Lenny Kravitz, left, was booed at the Champions League final in London last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAI PFAFFENBACH/REUTERS; ANDY RAIN/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (A28-A29) This article appeared in print on page A28.

Subject: Bands; Audiences; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Social networks; Tournaments & championships; Singing; Soccer; Singers

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Kyiv Ukraine; Ukraine; Europe

People: Lipa, Dua; Kravitz, Lenny

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/14/world/europe/euro-2024-final-music-performer.html

Title: For Opening Acts at Major Matches, There Are Rewards ... and Big Risks:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.28

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 14, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3079853298

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/opening-acts-at-major-matches-there-are-rewards/docview/3079853298/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 14, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Brand New Top Dog Sporting Mustard Belt At Coney Island Match: [Correction]

Author: Stack, Liam

Publication info: Stack, Liam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brand-new-top-dog-sporting-mustard-belt-at-coney/docview/3075814350/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Mr. Bertoletti won the title, succeeding the 16-time champion Joey Chestnut, who was barred from the July 4 spectacle. In the women's contest, Miki Sudo ate 51 hot dogs, a record.
It was the Fourth of July in New York City, and for some, that meant only one thing. No, not fireworks, sweaty subway rides and family cookouts. It was time for the Nathan's Famous Hot Dog Eating Contest in Coney Island.
The contest has long been a holiday mainstay in New York, and its worldwide television exposure has made celebrities of its most famous champions. But this year's event, which tests "competitive eaters" on how many hot dogs they can frantically scarf down in 10 minutes, crowned a new men's champion for the first time in almost a generation and witnessed a new women's record.
Patrick Bertoletti, 39, from Chicago, snagged the men's title -- or, in the parlance of Coney Island, the Mustard Belt -- by eating 58 hot dogs in 10 minutes, while Miki Sudo, 38, ate 51 hot dogs, setting a new women's record.
The former men's champion, Joey Chestnut, 40, won the competition 16 times but was barred from entering after a falling out with the organizers. Mr. Bertoletti was the world's ninth-ranked eater before the competition, according to Major League Eating, and he bested several competitors promoted by event organizers as Mr. Chestnut's potential successors.
"Always a bridesmaid and never a bride," Mr. Bertoletti said afterward. "But today I am getting married."
He described winning as a life-changing event.
"With Joey not here I knew I had a shot," he said, referring to Mr. Chestnut. "I was able to unlock something and I don't know where it came from."
Mr. Chestnut parted ways with the contest last month after he signed an endorsement deal with Impossible Foods, a rival to Nathan's that makes vegan hot dogs.
But he loomed large over Thursday's proceedings, in one case literally: A huge Pepsi ad bearing his image hung just one block from the contest location.
Many of the spectators also wore Chestnut memorabilia and chanted or held up signs pleading for his return. Mark Sterling, 35, did brisk business selling Chestnut bobblehead dolls to the crowd for $ 35.
"Why would you not want a bobblehead of a legend?" said Mr. Sterling, from the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn. "Joey Chestnut not being here is like people saying Derek Jeter's not at Yankee Stadium anymore -- people still love him."
Many viewers tuned in year after year just to watch Mr. Chestnut go through a pile of hot dogs like a wood chipper. News of his departure from the contest was met with the sort of public anguish one might expect for a major-league baseball player, not a man who ate 62 hot dogs in 10 minutes last July 4.
At the women's contest on Thursday, Ms. Sudo easily won the title for the 10th time, besting a group of competitors, some of whom traveled to Coney Island from as far as Japan and South Korea.
She ate 51 hot dogs in 10 minutes, setting a new women's record and exceeding her 2023 total of 39.5 hot dogs. The runner-up, Mayoi Ebihara of Japan, ate 37 hot dogs.
As Ms. Sudo ate hot dogs two at a time, an ESPN announcer was inspired to opine, "Her style is like the prose of Eudora Welty," a Pulitzer Prize-winning 20th-century novelist not known to have enjoyed 51 hot dogs in one sitting.
After winning, Ms. Sudo thanked her family and the dental school in Tampa where she is studying to be a dental hygienist, and reflected on the pressures of being a mother, a student and a world-famous hot dog eater.
"You feel like you're juggling," she said, "You try your best to balance everything."
George Shea, the event's larger-than-life M.C., described Ms. Sudo as a woman whose "soul shines like magnesium set afire against the dark mountain of night."
Nonna Titulauri, 31, a banking intern who lives in the East Village, said she was thrilled to witness a new women's world record. But her friend Christina DeCarlo was less amused.
"It's kinda gross," said Ms. DeCarlo, 33, a project manager who lives in Midtown. "I just want to understand, who decided it's a thing?"
In an interview last month, Mr. Shea, a charismatic showman who helped elevate this whole spectacle into the sort of event that is covered by The New York Times, said he was "devastated" by the Chestnut situation. Even Senator Chuck Schumer, a Brooklyn native, mourned what he called "'impossibly' hard-to-swallow news."
Mr. Shea said Mr. Chestnut's endorsement deal had left Major League Eating, which bills itself as "the governing body of all stomach-centric sport," with no choice but to bar him.
"It would be like back in the day Michael Jordan coming to Nike, who made his Air Jordans, and saying, 'I am just going to rep Adidas too,"' Mr. Shea said. "It just can't happen."
The hot dog eating contest is the sort of absurd public event for which New York City has long been known. Over the years, it has developed its own lore, canon and epic heroes, of whom Mr. Chestnut was long the king.
According to local legend, the contest has been held each year since 1916, when Nathan Handwerker opened a hot dog joint on the corner of Surf and Stillwell Avenues in Coney Island.
But like many legends, this one is mostly myth. The contest actually began in the early 1970s, and in 2010, one of its original promoters, Mortimer Matz, admitted that he had cooked up the origin story in "Coney Island pitchman style."
In recent years, the event has been powered largely by the wiener puns and theatrical patriotism of Mr. Shea, who calls it "a celebration of freedom," and by the star power of Mr. Chestnut.
The contest made him famous, and he in turn became synonymous with the event. As the weigh-in ceremony began on Wednesday, Mr. Shea repeated the tale of Mr. Chestnut's departure for the crowd, before reassuring them that he would be welcome to return to the Coney Island event at any time.
Representatives for Mr. Chestnut did not respond to a request for comment on Wednesday.
For those who still wished to watch Mr. Chestnut eat an unsettling number of hot dogs on July 4, he traveled to Fort Bliss, in El Paso, to compete against soldiers in a five-minute hot dog eating contest.
The event was streamed live on Mr. Chestnut's YouTube channel, where 22,000 viewers watched him eat 57 hot dogs in front of a crowd that looked more like a town fair gathering than the flashy Coney Island event.
Mr. Chestnut will also headline a hot dog eating contest on Labor Day that will stream live on Netflix, along with Takeru Kobayashi, another former July 4 hot dog champion who was ejected from the Coney Island contest in 2010 after a falling out with Major League Eating.
Mr. Chestnut's trajectory may have taken him out of the Nathan's competition -- for now, at least -- but James Webb, a former professional soccer player from Australia who began competitive eating "as a joke," said in an interview on Wednesday that some version of his celebrity status is what everyone in the contest hoped to achieve. Mr. Webb placed third Thursday by eating 51.75 hot dogs.
"We are all weird," said Mr. Webb, as a person in a giant hot dog costume danced nearby for TV cameras lined up beneath the Vessel in Hudson Yards. "We are all weird in our way. But we are hella competitive and pretty disciplined. And that's kind of the part people don't see."
Nate Schweber contributed reporting.
Nate Schweber contributed reporting.
Photograph Clockwise from top, people waited in line to attend Nathan's Famous Hot Dog Eating Contest in Coney Island on Thursday; men's winner Patrick Bertoletti stuffed one last dog in as time was called; and Miki Sudo easily won the women's title for the 10th time. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRAHAM DICKIE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A12.

Subject: Women; Celebrities; Contests

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US; Japan

People: Chestnut, Joey

Title: Brand New Top Dog Sporting Mustard Belt At Coney Island Match:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 5, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3075814350

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brand-new-top-dog-sporting-mustard-belt-at-coney/docview/3075814350/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hot Dog Eating Contest Crowns Patrick Bertoletti as New Men’s Champion

Author: Stack, Liam

Publication info: Stack, Liam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hot-dog-eating-contest-crowns-patrick-bertoletti/docview/3075769868/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — It was the Fourth of July in New York City, and for some, that meant only one thing. No, not fireworks, sweaty subway rides and family cookouts. It was time for the Nathan’s Famous Hot Dog Eating Contest in Coney Island.
The contest has long been a holiday mainstay in New York, and its worldwide television exposure has made celebrities of its most famous champions. But this year’s event, which tests “competitive eaters” on how many hot dogs they can frantically scarf down in 10 minutes, crowned a new men’s champion for the first time in almost a generation and witnessed a women’s record.
Patrick Bertoletti, 26, from Chicago, snagged the men’s title — or, in the parlance of Coney Island, the Mustard Belt — by eating 58 hot dogs in 10 minutes, while Miki Sudo, 38, ate 51 hot dogs.
The former men’s champion, Joey Chestnut, 40, won the competition 16 times but was banned from entering after a falling out with the organizers. Bertoletti was the world’s ninth-ranked eater before the competition, according to Major League Eating, and he bested several competitors promoted by event organizers as Chestnut’s potential successors.
“Always a bridesmaid and never a bride,” Bertoletti said afterward. “But today I am getting married.”
He described winning as a life-changing event.
“With Joey not here I knew I had a shot,” he said, referring to Chestnut. “I was able to unlock something and I don’t know where it came from.”
Chestnut parted ways with the contest last month after he signed an endorsement deal with Impossible Foods, a rival to Nathan’s that makes vegan hot dogs.
But he loomed large over Thursday’s proceedings, in one case literally: A huge Pepsi ad bearing his image hung just one block from the contest location.
Many of the spectators also wore Chestnut memorabilia and chanted or held up signs pleading for his return. Mark Sterling, 35, did brisk business selling Chestnut bobblehead dolls to the crowd for $35.
“Why would you not want a bobblehead of a legend?” said Sterling, from the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn. “Joey Chestnut not being here is like people saying Derek Jeter’s not at Yankee Stadium anymore — people still love him.”
Many viewers tuned in year after year just to watch Chestnut go through a pile of hot dogs like a wood chipper. News of his departure from the contest was met with the sort of public anguish one might expect for a major league baseball player, not a man who ate 62 hot dogs in 10 minutes last July 4.
At the women’s contest Thursday, Sudo easily won that title for the 10th time, besting a group of competitors, some of whom traveled to Coney Island from as far as Japan and South Korea.
She ate 51 hot dogs in 10 minutes, exceeding her 2023 total of 39.5 hot dogs. The runner-up, Mayoi Ebihara of Japan, ate 37 hot dogs.
As Sudo ate hot dogs two at a time, an ESPN announcer was inspired to opine, “Her style is like the prose of Eudora Welty,” a Pulitzer Prize-winning 20th century novelist not known to have enjoyed 51 hot dogs in one sitting.
After winning, Sudo thanked her family and the dental school in Tampa where she is studying to be a dental hygienist, and reflected on the pressures of being a mother, a student and world-famous hot dog eater.
“You feel like you’re juggling,” she said, “You try your best to balance everything.”
George Shea, the event’s larger-than-life emcee, described Sudo as a woman whose “soul shines like magnesium set afire against the dark mountain of night.”
Nonna Titulauri, 31, a banking intern who lives in the East Village, said she was thrilled to witness a women’s world record. But her friend Christina DeCarlo was less amused.
“It’s kinda gross,” said DeCarlo, 33, a project manager who lives in midtown. “I just want to understand, who decided it’s a thing?”
In an interview last month, Shea, a charismatic showman who helped elevate this whole spectacle into the sort of event that is covered by The New York Times, said he was “devastated” by the Chestnut situation. Even Sen. Chuck Schumer, a Brooklyn native, mourned what he called “‘impossibly’ hard-to-swallow news.”
Shea said Chestnut’s endorsement deal had left Major League Eating, which bills itself as “the governing body of all stomach-centric sport,” with no choice but to bar him.
“It would be like back in the day Michael Jordan coming to Nike, who made his Air Jordans, and saying, ‘I am just going to rep Adidas too,’” Shea said. “It just can’t happen.”
The hot dog eating contest is the sort of absurd public event for which New York City has long been known. Over the years, it has developed its own lore, canon and epic heroes, of whom Chestnut was long the king.
According to local legend, the contest has been held each year since 1916, when Nathan Handwerker opened a hot dog joint on the corner of Surf and Stillwell Avenues in Coney Island.
But like many legends, this one is mostly myth. The contest actually began in the early 1970s, and in 2010, one of its original promoters, Mortimer Matz, admitted that he had cooked up the origin story in “Coney Island pitchman style.”
In recent years, the event has been powered largely by the wiener puns and theatrical patriotism of Shea, who calls it “a celebration of freedom,” and by the star power of Chestnut.
The contest made him famous, and he in turn became synonymous with the event. As the weigh-in ceremony began Wednesday, Shea repeated the tale of Chestnut’s departure for the crowd, before reassuring them that he would be welcome to return to the Coney Island event at any time.
Representatives for Chestnut did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday.
For those who still wished to watch Chestnut eat an unsettling number of hot dogs on July 4, he traveled to Fort Bliss, in El Paso, to compete against soldiers in a five-minute hot dog eating contest. The event streamed live on Chestnut’s YouTube channel, where 22,000 viewers watched him eat 57 hot dogs in front of a crowd that looked more like a town fair gathering than the flashy Coney Island event. His closest competitor, Daniel Almaraz Puente, ate an eye-popping 49.
He will also headline a hot dog eating contest on Labor Day that will stream live on Netflix, along with Takeru Kobayashi, another former July 4 hot dog champion who was ejected from the Coney Island contest in 2010 after a falling out with Major League Eating.
Chestnut’s trajectory may have taken him out of the Nathan’s competition — for now, at least — but James Webb, a former professional soccer player from Australia who began competitive eating “as a joke,” said in an interview Wednesday that some version of his celebrity status is what everyone in the contest hoped to achieve. Webb placed third Thursday by eating 51.75 hot dogs.
“We are all weird,” said Webb, as a person in a giant hot dog costume danced nearby for TV cameras lined up beneath the Vessel in Hudson Yards. “We are all weird in our way. But we are hella competitive and pretty disciplined. And that’s kind of the part people don’t see.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Celebrities; Professional baseball

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US; Japan

People: Chestnut, Joey

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Handwerker, Nathan; Espn; Contests And Prizes; Texas; El Paso (Tex); Chestnut, Joey; Brazil; Japan; Vallejo (Calif); Schumer, Charles E; New York Times; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Veganism; Netflix Inc; Subways; New York City; United States; Independence Day (Us) (July 4); Sudo, Miki; Espn2; California; Fireworks; Impossible Foods Inc; Nike Inc; Hot Dogs And Frankfurters; South Korea; Brooklyn (Nyc); Coney Island (Brooklyn, Ny); Czech Republic; Webb, James H Jr; Railroads; News An d News Media; Jordan, Michael; Television; Australia; Major League Eating; Street Performers; Hudson Yards (Manhattan, Ny); Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Associated Press

Title: Hot Dog Eating Contest Crowns Patrick Bertoletti as New Men’s Champion

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 4, 2024

Dateline: 2024-07-04T22:29:07Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3075769868

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hot-dog-eating-contest-crowns-patrick-bertoletti/docview/3075769868/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Modeling a Way to Move Forward: [Style Desk]

Author: Iredale, Jessica

Publication info: Iredale, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/modeling-way-move-forward/docview/3075517392/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Cindy Crawford walked into a lounge in the Santa Monica Proper Hotel on a morning in early June, her vibe was immediate: comfortable, professional, direct. No artifice. No entourage. Just her longtime publicist Annett Wolf, who made a brief introduction and disappeared, leaving Ms. Crawford at the head of a table set with a display of the products from her Meaningful Beauty line of skin and hair care, a $ 400 million brand she introduced 20 years ago.
"Where do you want to start?" Ms. Crawford asked. "What feels the most organic?"
It's tempting to describe Ms. Crawford, 58, as casual, but that's not quite it. Dressed in a Celine corduroy jean jacket, a camisole, Nili Lotan bootleg jeans and a Foundrae charm necklace symbolizing resilience, her beauty is radiant without being the least bit overwhelming. A resident of Malibu, where she lives with her husband of 27 years, the nightlife and tequila maestro Rande Gerber, she exuded California unfussiness. She is a familiar face, literally, having been photographed and filmed thousands of times over the course of her 35-plus-year career as one of the world's most successful models.
What felt most organic was to start with the business of Cindy. More than the mole above her lip, more than her brown eyes and va-va-voom hair and her healthy physique, Ms. Crawford's interest in transcending modeling to become a brand -- decades before personal branding was a career path -- is what has distinguished her from her peers.
"I always say, 'I modeled,"' Ms. Crawford said. "It's not, 'I am a model.' It's a verb to me. It's not an identity."
An entrepreneurial role model among aspiring supermodels, Ms. Crawford invented the modern playbook by which the current generation of professionally beautiful people, including Gigi and Bella Hadid, Hailey Bieber, Ms. Crawford's own daughter, Kaia Gerber, and most of the Kardashian-Jenner family, abide. Brand partnerships, brand ownership, products, campaigns, deals across various forms of media.
"There wasn't someone that I was, like, 'I want her career,"' Ms. Crawford said. "A lot of it was just, like, 'Why not?' or 'Let's try this."'
"Cindy, Inc. Not just your basic $ 7-million-a-year supermodel." That was the cover line of a 1994 Vanity Fair profile that tried to put a finger on Ms. Crawford's newfangled golden touch as a model who could command markets, demographics and products that ranged from Vogue to Playboy to MTV to Kay Jewelers. At the time, Ms. Crawford was 28, married to Richard Gere (they filed for divorce the following year) and a perfect specimen of youth and exceptional beauty.
Two of the profile's themes were Ms. Crawford's happiness and the question of whether she would find the "engine" to power her ambitions. Much was made of her obvious physical appeal, but the article also addressed the fact that Ms. Crawford possessed something else -- a pragmatism, a lack of pretension and snobbery, a sense of humor and self-awareness -- that positioned her for greatness.
"She was born knowing what she was doing," the fashion designer Isaac Mizrahi, one of Ms. Crawford's contemporaries, said in a recent interview. "This is her 15th life or something."
Thirty years later, Ms. Crawford turned out to be the driver of her own career, a rare example of longevity in an industry famous for discarding women once a whiff of middle age enters the picture.
Ms. Crawford has been the face of many brands, perhaps most famously Pepsi. Her blockbuster 1992 Super Bowl ad is advertising legend. She has been with Omega watches for 29 years. She had a 15-year mega-contract with Revlon that ended when she was 35, at which point she started developing Meaningful Beauty. It is Ms. Crawford's biggest business, the first ownership stake of her career, a 50-50 partnership with Guthy-Renker, the direct-to-consumer subscription marketing firm known for brands like Proactiv, JLo Beauty, IT Cosmetics and Tony Robbins Personal Power.
Traditionally an infomercial model, the Guthy-Renker way is not sexy. "You could say that infomercials were below Cindy," said Greg Renker, who founded the company with Bill Guthy. "She knew it. She reminded us of it."
Mr. Guthy and Mr. Renker pursued Ms. Crawford for years before she took them seriously, demanding equity partnership.
If Ms. Crawford was going to do an infomercial skin-care line, it was going to be her way. She wanted to develop the products with Dr. Jean-Louis Sebagh as a distillation of the antioxidant treatment he provides in his Paris practice, but made more accessible.
"I was, like, 'Pretty much every director you've used, I don't want to use," she said. "'I have to do it totally different."'
Mr. Renker said Meaningful Beauty was Guthy-Renker's biggest investment at the time. Their bet on Ms. Crawford did not pay off at first.
"It was difficult to present Cindy warmly, even though she was in fact a warm and terrific person," Mr. Renker said. "At that time in supermodeldom, they were all kind of intimidating and untouchable. We almost quit."
They recalibrated, emphasizing the connection to Dr. Sebagh and filming the infomercials with Ms. Crawford speaking to a peer, rather than directly to the customer. The brand flourished, and it no longer relies solely on television infomercials or Ms. Crawford. Customers buy the products through the brand's website, social media and from wholesale outlets like Amazon, and the line has additional spokeswomen, including Ellen Pompeo and Porsha Williams.
"I didn't even want my name on the brand," Ms. Crawford said. "I hoped that it would have a life bigger than just me."
Ms. Crawford has never clung to the rarefied world of fashion. In a career unmarked by scandal, one of her most controversial moves was doing Playboy in 1988, tastefully shot by the high-fashion photographer Herb Ritts. Preternaturally savvy at age 22, Ms. Crawford has said she thought the Playboy shootwould increase her audience -- heterosexual men, as opposed to the primarily female fans of luxury fashion. The wide lens through which she viewed the opportunity has applied to many of her business decisions.
"My most important collaborations were with Pepsi and Revlon, not Hermès," Ms. Crawford said. "They were with brands that are for everybody."
Raised in a working-class family in DeKalb, Ill., Ms. Crawford has never lost touch with her roots, even at the height of the 1990s glamourama, when she was starring in George Michael's "Freedom! '90" video and part of Gianni Versace's inner circle.
"You find yourself at some palazzo in Capri, and you're, like, 'Wait, I'm just from DeKalb, Illinois,"' Ms. Crawford said. "'How did I end up here, and what am I supposed to wear?"'
Early in her career, her mother visited her in New York and borrowed one of Ms. Crawford's dresses, a simple style by Donna Karan. "She's, like, 'Oh my god, I love this dress. I'm going to buy one just like it,"' Ms. Crawford said. But it was about $ 800, she remembered, more than what her mother would spend on clothes in a year. Ms. Crawford gave her the dress.
"My mom recognized quality when she had it," Ms. Crawford said. "It was an 'aha' moment that was about access and knowledge."
Mr. Mizrahi recalled a shoot he did with Ms. Crawford in Big Sur, Calif., in the '90s. "The crew and everybody, they just assumed that she was not smart," Mr. Mizrahi said. "I knew her extremely well, and I was, like, 'What are they talking about? Wait until she opens her mouth."'
In the late 1980s, before the words "super" and "model" were merged to form a new noun to identify the band of models that included Ms. Crawford, Christy Turlington, Naomi Campbell, Linda Evangelista and a handful of others, Ms. Crawford was known as the small-town Midwestern girl who was co-valedictorian of her high school class and attended Northwestern on scholarship before dropping out to pursue modeling.
She was willing to break the fourth wall and be heard and not just seen -- anathema to the modeling world. As the inaugural host of MTV's "House of Style," the beloved behind-the scenes fashion news program that aired in 1989, Ms. Crawford had zero broadcast experience. She was no Elsa Klensch, but she made it look easier than it was.
Ms. Turlington recalled that when Ms. Crawford walked away from "House of Style," Ms. Evangelista auditioned to host. "Linda came in like, 'I'm a high-fashion model. I'll really show you what it's like,"' she said. "It didn't have the sense of humor, and it didn't have the lightness."
Last year Ms. Crawford, Ms. Turlington, Ms. Evangelista and Ms. Campbell were all on camera together for the first time in years for the Apple TV+ series "The Super Models." It was a four-episode trip down memory lane through the headiest of supermodel times -- the ups, the downs, the underestimation, the aging. Ms. Campbell and Ms. Crawford were the instigators behind getting the foursome together for the series, which was in the works for eight years.
"There is so much obsession with the '90s," Ms. Crawford said. "We're, like, someone is going to do this documentary. Let's own our own narrative." All four women received executive producer credits. None had final cut.
Ms. Crawford was mostly happy with the finished product. Her first present-day on-screen moment captures her on a plane, jockeying for a photo that will fetch the highest bid at a charity auction. "I think we all came off as exactly who we are," she said.
The cover shoot by Rafael Pavarotti featuring Ms. Crawford, Ms. Turlington, Ms. Campbell and Ms. Evangelista that ran in the September issue of Vogue received a fair amount of backlash for gratuitous retouching.
"Do I think it's my best Vogue cover ever? No," Ms. Crawford said. "We don't have say on how much they retouch us with Vogue. We don't even have final approval of the picture. I hated my eyebrows -- they way overdrew them. But no one is asking me."
After making a living on her physique for this long, she's used to the world dissecting her looks.
"I was not interested in changing my face," she said.
There is upkeep. She has done Botox, but less as she gets older because she wants her forehead to match the rest of her face. Radio frequency, microneedling, infrared sauna, cold plunge, a red light mask. She does dry brushing and lymphatic drainage on herself every morning, followed by gua sha with a Meaningful Beauty oil.
"I'll do those kinds of things," she said. "But in the end, I truly haven't seen anything that's made such a huge difference that I like on anyone."
"I'm 58," she said. "Part of me would want to not be doing magazines or photo shoots. If you want to scroll through your comments, you will find really mean things. But they're not meaner than you've thought about yourself." "But at the same time, am I being complicit in this message to women that we need to hang it up at a certain age?"
Photograph Cindy Crawford's Meaningful Beauty line of products is a $ 400 million brand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY HARRITY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1); Top, Cindy Crawford, showing she still knows how to put on a pose. Above from left: hosting "House of Style" on MTV; some of Meaningful Beauty's products. Left, from left, Linda Evangelista, Ms. Crawford, Naomi Campbell and Christy Turlington in 1991. Below, the same four in a 2023 documentary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMY HARRITY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MEANINGFUL BEAUTY; MTV NETWORKS, VIA EVERETT COLLECTION; PAUL MASSEY/SHUTTERSTOCK; APPLE TV+) (D6) This article appeared in print on page D1, D6.

Subject: Fashion models; Fashion designers; Personal profiles; Infomercials

Business indexing term: Subject: Infomercials

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/03/style/cindy-crawford-model-meaningful-beauty.html

Title: Modeling a Way to Move Forward:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 4, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3075517392

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/modeling-way-move-forward/docview/3075517392/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Business of Cindy

Author: Iredale, Jessica

Publication info: Iredale, Jessica. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/business-cindy/docview/3075438638/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
When Cindy Crawford walked into a lounge in the Santa Monica Proper Hotel on a morning in early June, her vibe was immediate: comfortable, professional, direct. No artifice. No entourage. Just her longtime publicist Annett Wolf, who made a brief introduction and disappeared, leaving Crawford at the head of a table set with a display of the products from her Meaningful Beauty line of skin and hair care, a $400 million brand she introduced 20 years ago.
“Where do you want to start?” Crawford asked. “What feels the most organic?”
It’s tempting to describe Crawford, 58, as casual, but that’s not quite it. Dressed in a Celine corduroy jean jacket, a camisole, Nili Lotan bootleg jeans and a Foundrae charm necklace symbolizing resilience, her beauty is radiant without being the least bit overwhelming. A resident of Malibu, where she lives with her husband of 27 years, nightlife and tequila maestro Rande Gerber, she exuded California unfussiness. She is a familiar face, literally, having been photographed and filmed thousands of times over the course of her 35-plus-year career as one of the world’s most successful models.
What felt most organic was to start with the business of Cindy. More than the mole above her lip, more than her brown eyes and va-va-voom brown hair and her healthy physique, Crawford’s interest in transcending modeling to become a brand — decades before personal branding was a career path — is what has distinguished her from her peers.
“I always say, ‘I modeled,’” Crawford said. “It’s not, ‘I am a model.’ It’s a verb to me. It’s not an identity.”
An entrepreneurial role model among aspiring supermodels, Crawford invented the modern playbook by which the current generation of professionally beautiful people — including Gigi and Bella Hadid; Hailey Bieber; Crawford’s own daughter, Kaia Gerber; and most of the Kardashian-Jenner family — abide. Brand partnerships, brand ownership, products, campaigns, deals across various forms of media — all centered on the self.
“There wasn’t someone that I was, like, ‘I want her career,’” Crawford said. “A lot of it was just, like, ‘Why not?’ or ‘Let’s try this.’”
“Cindy, Inc. Not Just Your Basic $7-Million-a-Year Supermodel”: That was the cover line of a 1994 Vanity Fair profile that tried to put a finger on Crawford’s newfangled golden touch as a model who could command markets, demographics and products that ranged from Vogue to Playboy to MTV to Kay Jewelers. At the time, Crawford was 28, married to Richard Gere (they filed for divorce the next year) and a perfect specimen of youth and exceptional beauty.
Two of the profile’s themes were Crawford’s happiness and the question of whether she would find the “engine” to power her ambitions. Much was made of her obvious physical appeal, but the article also addressed the fact that Crawford possessed something else — a pragmatism, a lack of pretension and snobbery, a sense of humor and self-awareness — that positioned her for greatness.
“She was born knowing what she was doing,” fashion designer Isaac Mizrahi, one of Crawford’s contemporaries, said in a recent interview. “This is her 15th life or something.”
Thirty years later, Crawford turned out to be the driver of her own career, a rare example of longevity, graceful aging and business savvy in a superficial world famous for discarding women once a whiff of middle age enters the picture.
Crawford has been the face of many brands, perhaps most famously Pepsi. Her blockbuster 1992 Super Bowl ad is advertising legend.
She has been with Omega watches for 29 years. She had a 15-year mega-contract with Revlon that ended when she was 35, at which point she started developing Meaningful Beauty. It is Crawford’s biggest business, the first ownership stake of her career, a 50-50 partnership with Guthy-Renker, the direct-to-consumer subscription marketing firm known for brands such as Proactiv, JLo Beauty, IT Cosmetics and Tony Robbins Personal Power.
Traditionally an infomercial model, the Guthy-Renker way is not sexy. “You could say that infomercials were below Cindy,” said Greg Renker, who founded the company with Bill Guthy. “She knew it. She reminded us of it.”
Guthy and Renker pursued Crawford for years before she took them seriously, demanding equity partnership. “It’s, like, I’m not just going to sleep with you; are we going to get married?” Crawford said. “I’m not a one-night stand. Let’s co-invest in each other.”
If Crawford was going to do an infomercial skin-care line, it was going to be her way. She wanted to develop the products with Dr. Jean-Louis Sebagh as a distillation of the antioxidant treatment he provides in his Paris practice, but made more accessible. The key ingredient, superoxide dismutase, is derived from a melon that grows in the South of France. The products start at $34.
“I was, like, ‘Pretty much every director you’ve used, I don’t want to use,” she said. “‘I have to do it totally different.’”
Renker said Meaningful Beauty was Guthy-Renker’s biggest investment at the time. Their bet on Crawford did not pay off at first.
“It was difficult to present Cindy warmly, even though she was in fact a warm and terrific person,” Renker said. “At that time in supermodeldom, they were all kind of intimidating and untouchable. We almost quit.”
They recalibrated, emphasizing the connection to Sebagh and filming the infomercials with Crawford speaking to a peer, rather than directly to the customer. The brand flourished, and it no longer relies solely on television infomercials or Crawford. Customers buy the products through the brand’s website, social media and from wholesale outlets such as Amazon, and the line has additional spokeswomen, including Ellen Pompeo and Porsha Williams.
“I didn’t even want my name on the brand,” Crawford said. “I hoped that it would have a life bigger than just me.”
Crawford has never clung to the rarefied world of fashion. In a career unmarked by scandal, one of her most controversial moves was doing Playboy in 1988, tastefully shot by high-fashion photographer Herb Ritts. Preternaturally savvy at age 22, Crawford has said she thought the Playboy shoot would increase her audience — heterosexual men, as opposed to the primarily female fans of luxury fashion. The wide lens through which she viewed the opportunity has applied to many of her business decisions.
“My most important collaborations were with Pepsi and Revlon, not Hermès,” Crawford said. “They were with brands that are for everybody.”
Raised in a working-class family in DeKalb, Illinois, Crawford has never lost touch with her roots, even at the height of the 1990s glamourama, when she was starring in George Michael’s “Freedom! ’90” video and part of Gianni Versace’s inner circle.
“You find yourself at some palazzo in Capri, and you’re, like, ‘Wait, I’m just from DeKalb, Illinois,’” Crawford said. “‘How did I end up here, and what am I supposed to wear?’”
Early in her career, her mother visited her in New York and borrowed one of Crawford’s dresses, a simple style by Donna Karan. “She’s, like: ‘Oh my god, I love this dress. I’m going to buy one just like it,’” Crawford said. But it was about $800, she remembered, more than what her mother would spend on clothes in a year. Crawford gave her the dress.
“My mom recognized quality when she had it,” Crawford said. “It was an ‘aha’ moment that was about access and knowledge.”
Mizrahi recalled a shoot he did with Crawford in Big Sur, in California, in the ’90s. “The crew and everybody, they just assumed that she was not smart,” Mizrahi said. “I knew her extremely well, and I was, like: ‘What are they talking about? Wait until she opens her mouth.’”
“Then it was, like, they interviewed her for this commercial, and they got clips and sound bites and all that,” he continued. “And everybody was so amazed that she could speak so eloquently and so incredibly clearly and beautifully. We don’t expect beautiful people to say smart things. That’s awful. That’s a terrible thing to say. But it used to be very true.”
Crawford always had beauty and brains. In the late 1980s, before the words “super” and “model” were merged to form a new noun to identify the band of models that included Crawford, Christy Turlington, Naomi Campbell, Linda Evangelista and a handful of others, Crawford was known as the small-town Midwestern girl who was co-valedictorian of her high school class and attended Northwestern University on scholarship before dropping out to pursue modeling.
She was fearless, willing to branch out, break the fourth wall and be heard and not just seen — anathema to the modeling world. As the inaugural host of MTV’s “House of Style,” the beloved behind-the scenes fashion news program that aired in 1989, Crawford had zero broadcast experience. She was no Elsa Klensch, but she made it look easier than it was.
Turlington recalled that when Crawford walked away from “House of Style,” Evangelista auditioned to host. “Linda came in like: ‘I’m a high-fashion model. I’ll really show you what it’s like,’” she said. “It didn’t have the sense of humor, and it didn’t have the lightness.”
Last year, Crawford, Turlington, Evangelista and Campbell were all on camera together for the first time in years for the Apple TV+ series “The Super Models.” It was a four-episode trip down memory lane through the headiest of supermodel times — the ups, the downs, the underestimation, the aging. Campbell and Crawford were the instigators behind getting the foursome together for the series, which was in the works for eight years.
“There is so much obsession with the ’90s,” Crawford said. “We’re, like: ‘Someone is going to do this documentary. Let’s own our own narrative.’” All four women received executive producer credits. None had final cut.
Crawford was mostly happy with the finished product. Her first present-day on-screen moment captures her on a plane, jockeying for a photo that will fetch the highest bid at a charity auction. “I think we all came off as exactly who we are,” she said.
The cover shoot by Rafael Pavarotti featuring Crawford, Turlington, Campbell and Evangelista that ran in the September issue of Vogue received a fair amount of backlash for gratuitous retouching.
“Do I think it’s my best Vogue cover ever? No,” Crawford said. “We don’t have say on how much they retouch us with Vogue. We don’t even have final approval of the picture. I hated my eyebrows; they way overdrew them. But no one is asking me.”
Crawford said she didn’t care. She had fun. After making a living on her physique for this long, she’s used to the world dissecting her looks. It comes with the territory. Beauty has not been fleeting in her case, but time has not stood still either. Crawford does not look like her 22-year-old self, but she does not look at all artificial.
“I was not interested in changing my face,” she said.
There is upkeep. She has done Botox, but less as she gets older because she wants her forehead to match the rest of her face. Radio frequency, microneedling, infrared sauna, cold plunge, a red light mask. She does dry brushing and lymphatic drainage on herself every morning, followed by gua sha with a Meaningful Beauty oil.
“I’ll do those kinds of things,” she said. “But in the end, I truly haven’t seen anything that’s made such a huge difference that I like on anyone.”
“I’m 58,” she said. “Part of me would want to not be doing magazines or photo shoots. If you want to scroll through your comments, you will find really mean things. But they’re not meaner than you’ve thought about yourself.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fashion models; Personal profiles; Fashion designers; Infomercials

Business indexing term: Subject: Infomercials

Location: California; New York; United States--US; Illinois

Identifier / keyword: Pepsico Inc; California; Cosmetics And Toiletries; Paris (France); Lifestyle; Evangelista, Linda; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Malibu (Calif); Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Political Advertising; Electronics; Vogue; Apple Tv Plus; Gerber, Rande; Gere, Richard; Botox (Drug); Careers And Professions; Ritts, Herbert Jr; Illinois; Dresses; Dietary Supplements And Herbal Remedies; Northwestern University; Pompeo, Ellen; Lotan, Nili; Hadid, Bella (1996 ); Santa Monica (Calif); Revlon Inc; Skin; Discrimination; AmazonCom Inc; Scholarships And Fellowships; Mizrahi, Isaac; Advertising And Marketing; Face; Actors And Actresses; Fashion And Apparel; Guthy Renker Corp; Dekalb (Ill); Vanity Fair; Turlington, Christy; Apple Tv; Celine (Fashion Label); Playboy Magazine; Karan, Donna; Gerber, Kaia; Campbell, Naomi; Speeches And Statements; Television; France; Watches And Clocks; Klensch, Elsa; Bars And Nightclubs; Models (Professional); Crawford, Cindy; Mtv Networks; Memory; Southern States (Us); Age, Chronological; Comedy And Humor

Title: The Business of Cindy

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jul 3, 2024

Dateline: 2024-07-03T21:46:06Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3075438638

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/business-cindy/docview/3075438638/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 3, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

N.F.L. Must Pay Billions for Sunday Ticket Overcharges: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Belson, Ken

Publication info: Belson, Ken. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/n-f-l-must-pay-billions-sunday-ticket-overcharges/docview/3073477239/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The case, which cut to the heart of the league's media strategy, centered on a subscription service that aired out-of-market games for roughly $ 300 a year.
The N.F.L. must pay almost $ 5 billion in damages for artificially inflating the price of Sunday Ticket, a subscription service offered by DirecTV that showed out-of-market games, a federal jury in Los Angeles decided on Thursday.
The verdict, which capped a monthlong class-action trial and almost a decade of legal wrangling, includes about $ 96 million in damages for the bars and restaurants that subscribed to the service, and more than $ 4.6 billion for roughly 2.4 million residential subscribers. Damages in antitrust cases like this are tripled by law, which means the league may have to pay more than $ 14 billion.
The jury's damages were most of what the plaintiffs lawyers were seeking. "It's a great day for consumers everywhere," said Bill Carmody, one of the plaintiffs' lawyers.
The N.F.L. is expected to appeal the verdict.
"We are disappointed with the jury's verdict today in the N.F.L. Sunday Ticket class action lawsuit," Brian McCarthy, a league spokesman, said in a statement. "We will certainly contest this decision as we believe that the class action claims in this case are baseless and without merit."
Judge Philip Gutierrez, who openly admonished the plaintiffs' lawyers during the trial in U.S. District Court, will hear post-trial motions next month. He could, in theory, decide that the jury reached an improper verdict. An appeals court could also alter the size of the damages.
Still, the verdict poses a substantial risk to the league, which is a $ 20 billion juggernaut in large part because of its media deals.
"Juries are inherently unpredictable, but any time there's a ruling against a sports entity, it's significant because leagues rarely take these cases all the way to trial," said Gabriel Feldman, the director of the sports law program at Tulane University.
The civil case cut to the heart of the league's media distribution strategy, which for more than a half-century has been based on negotiating contracts with networks on behalf of all the teams. More than 90 percent of N.F.L. games are shown on free over-the-air television in the markets of the teams in the games, and many other games are shown in prime time on national networks. The league's contracts with CBS, Fox, NBC and other broadcasters generate more than $ 10 billion a year.
Sunday Ticket was a unique product because it packaged out-of-market games already being shown by CBS and Fox and resold them to fans for about $ 300 a season. The plaintiffs argued that the price was deliberately inflated to limit the number of subscribers. The plaintiffs' lawyers pointed to an email to N.F.L. executives from ESPN that said the cable sports network was willing to offer Sunday Ticket for only $ 70 and sell single-team packages.
The league spurned the offer and stuck with DirecTV until 2022, when it struck a new deal with YouTube TV.
During the trial, the league acknowledged that CBS and Fox would be hurt if Sunday Ticket attracted too many subscribers. Commissioner Roger Goodell, who testified last week, said the service was priced as a premium product.
The jury -- and many fans -- contended that the league could and should offer its games at a lower price, and with more flexible options, like team-only packages. Feldman, the Tulane professor, said the N.F.L. would most likely on appeal restate its case that while it negotiated contracts collectively, it was pro-consumer because it offered so many games over the air for free.
The N.F.L. will argue that "we are not like Coke and Pepsi -- we are more like Coke and Coke Zero," Feldman said. "We are part of the same company and part of the same goals."
Photograph The N.F.L., which is now a $ 20 billion business, could have to pay up to $ 14 billion for inflating subscription prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIDGET BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Teams; Attorneys; Settlements & damages; Subscriptions

Business indexing term: Subject: Attorneys

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/27/business/media/nfl-sunday-ticket-lawsuit-billions-damage.html

Title: N.F.L. Must Pay Billions for Sunday Ticket Overcharges:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 29, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3073477239

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/n-f-l-must-pay-billions-sunday-ticket-overcharges/docview/3073477239/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 29, 2024

Last updated: 2024-07-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New York's Ad Sector Still Lacks Diversity: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Chen, Stefanos

Publication info: Chen, Stefanos. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-yorks-ad-sector-still-lacks-diversity/docview/3071152369/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Despite corporate promises and hiring campaigns, the ad industry is among New York City's least diverse job sectors. It shows in the work, critics say.
Last summer, KFC ran advertisements in Canada featuring Black people eating fried chicken and licking their fingers, their faces reflected in unused silverware.
Critics called the images racist, but the campaign was not canceled. Instead, it was submitted this spring for a prestigious industry award in New York.
Nate Nichols, the founder and creative director of Palette Group, a creative agency in Brooklyn, was one of the few Black members of the panel of judges reviewing submissions.
"My genuine response is sadness," Mr. Nichols said. "It just means not enough of us have been able to make it into the room."
The ad did not win, and KFC Global did not respond to requests for comment. But the episode was emblematic of a multibillion-dollar advertising industry that in at least one way still resembles the "Mad Men" era of the 1960s -- namely, its lack of racial diversity.
That dearth, according to a new report, is keenly evident in New York City, the heart of the industry and also the largest advertising market in the United States. The disconnect could be costly at a time when shifts in media consumption favor younger, more diverse audiences.
There is also a need, as unemployment rates in New York City for people of color remain stubbornly high, for more diversity in an industry that pays above-average salaries, is expected to keep growing and requires relatively little formal training.
Of nearly 70,000 advertising employees in New York at the end of last year, less than 8 percent were Black, about 11 percent were Asian and under 15 percent were Latino, according to a report released on Monday by the Center for an Urban Future, a public policy research organization that seeks to increase economic mobility. Over 58 percent of employees were women, most of them white. The figures made advertising among the city's least diverse industries in the city,
Expressions of Black culture are everywhere in advertising, even when few people of color are working behind the scenes to create them, said Adrienne Lucas, the head of diversity, equity and inclusion at the One Club for Creativity, an industry trade group in New York.
"Our essence, our creativity is wanted, but we are not," she said.
In other ways, the business is rapidly changing.
By 2028, money spent on advertising in the United States could surpass $ 500 billion, a record, largely because of growth in digital media, said Paul Verna, a vice president of content for Emarketer, a market research firm.
Internet search ads, primarily on Google, have long been the biggest spending category. But social media, including sponsorships on TikTok and Instagram, is rapidly growing, and is attracting a younger demographic, Mr. Verna said.
Even the stretch of Madison Avenue that once defined the industry has lost some of its luster, as more firms move to trendy areas of Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn.
The shift has brands and ad agencies focused on younger, more diverse audiences, even as their board rooms remain largely white.
Splashy diversity efforts in the industry in 2021, in the aftermath of the killing of George Floyd and the subsequent wave of racial justice protests, have stalled or reversed, according to a 2023 survey of over 100 agencies by the 4As, a national trade association.
White executives owned or ran roughly three out of every four agencies in 2021, the survey found. By the next year, the figure had jumped to nine in 10. A significant share of the industry is controlled by six major holding companies, including WPP and Publicis Groupe, that together own hundreds of agencies.
The report does not offer an explanation for the drop in nonwhite ad professionals, but found that 64 percent of Black employees had spent two years or less at their current agency, the shortest tenure of any racial or ethnic group.
Industry experts said the explanation was simple: a lack of career growth opportunities for people of color.
"There'll be a lot of fake 'we're doing something about it,' and as soon as the cycle dissipates, they go back to what they are -- companies run by white men," said Steve Stoute, the chief executive and founder of Translation, a Black-owned ad firm in Brooklyn's Dumbo neighborhood.
People of color who do find a seat at creative meetings are often the lone voices of dissent in challenging culturally insensitive ideas, said Kai Deveraux Lawson, the head of culture and marketing at Valerie, a creative agency.
"Just because you have a Black or brown person in the room, and I personally have been in this situation, doesn't mean that person has the trust or the empowerment to influence anybody," she said.
Even when the views of people of color are heeded, the results are mixed, said Mr. Nichols, 36, of Palette Group.
"You're being looked at as the monolith for your community, and that's a very heavy burden to hold," he said.
Jody-Ann Crooks, 35, who works in health care advertising, grew up in Jamaica. She recalled a past job when an executive asked her if Black people use coal or gas grills.
"All eyes were on me and, first of all, 'What did this man just ask me?"' she said. "It's lonely and isolating."
Critics attribute some recent examples of racial insensitivity to a lack of representation.
In 2017, Pepsi pulled an ad that featured Kendall Jenner, a white woman, handing a can of soda to a police officer, amid cheerful protesters with signs that read "Join the conversation." Critics panned the ad for trivializing the Black Lives Matter movement and police violence.
But advertising's lack of diversity is also a work force problem, said Jonathan Bowles, the Center for an Urban Future's executive director.
"There are a lot of jobs that are growing in New York, but not many that have good wages," he said. He pointed to the explosive expansion of the home health care sector, which employs a large number of women of color but pays close to minimum wage.
Jobs that dwindled during the pandemic in sectors like retail have disproportionately affected people of color. The Black unemployment rate in New York City was nearly 8 percent in the year's first quarter, compared with 3.3 percent for white workers, according to the city's Economic Development Corporation.
That makes advertising an industry with big growth potential for people of color, Mr. Bowles said. In New York City, the median annual income in advertising is about $ 92,000, while the citywide private sector median income is $ 55,000, he said.
And job growth in the industry has been brisk. Despite a wave of layoffs during the pandemic, mostly in tech-related sectors, the advertising work force has grown nearly 50 percent in the past two decades, from 46,700 jobs in 2003 to 69,800 in 2023, far outpacing the private sector's 37 percent job growth in the same period.
"Most people don't know jobs like this exist," said Melvin DeBerry, 37, an art director for a large tech firm's ad department in Manhattan.
Last year, Mr. DeBerry was working at a steel mill in Memphis when he heard from a friend about the One School, a free program started in 2020 to help Black creatives build an advertising portfolio. A former aspiring musician, he was accepted to the four-month virtual program and attended classes two nights a week after work. He said his new salary tops $ 100,000, the most he has ever earned.
Hiring people from varied backgrounds is crucial to the industry's growth, said Joel Rodriguez, 36, an executive director with the creative firm Translation.
"It's not just in terms of skin color," he said. "It's diversity of thought,"
Some of his group's recent work includes a campaign for AT&T and its high-tech helmets for college football players who are deaf or hard of hearing, and a well-received short film for the headphone brand Beats by Dre. The film asked: "You love Black culture, but do you love me?"
His career could have gone differently. Mr. Rodriguez grew up in an apartment building in Flushing, Queens, where his father, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic, was the superintendent. While studying marketing in college, Mr. Rodriguez worked as a janitor to pay his bills.
As graduation approached, he had no job prospects and considered applying to become the super at a new building near his home. But he had a cousin who was a chauffeur for Mr. Stoute of Translation. Mr. Rodriguez asked his cousin to slip his résumé to human resources.
The move earned him his first internship. Absent that opportunity, he said, he would have followed in his father's career footsteps.
"Without that exposure," Mr. Rodriguez said, "all we know is what we see."
Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Susan C. Beachy contributed research.
Photograph "Most people don't know jobs like this exist," said Melvin DeBerry, an art director for a large tech company in Manhattan. (MB1); "Our essence, our creativity is wanted, but we are not," said Adrienne Lucas, left, the head of an advertising industry trade group, commenting on Black employment in the sector. Joel Rodriguez, right, an executive director with the firm Translation, says that "diversity of thought" is necessary in the industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AHMED GABER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6, MB7) This article appeared in print on page MB1, MB6, MB7.

Subject: Careers; Advertising; Unemployment; Black culture; Minority & ethnic groups; Black people; Employees; Employment; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers Advertising Unemployment Employees Employment

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/17/nyregion/advertising-diversity-mad-men.html

Title: New York's Ad Sector Still Lacks Diversity:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 23, 2024

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3071152369

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-yorks-ad-sector-still-lacks-diversity/docview/3071152369/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Capturing Decades Of Gay Life: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Piepenburg, Erik

Publication info: Piepenburg, Erik. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/capturing-decades-gay-life/docview/3050390962/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Stanley Stellar has documented gay New York, on the streets and in his studio, for decades. Now he steps onto his biggest stage.
Stanley Stellar was on Canal Street one Sunday morning in 1976 when a young man with a killer body passed by. Like many New York street photographers, Stellar is curious, bordering on nosy, and he can, when necessary, be a whiz at masking flirtation as flattery to put straight guys at ease.
Stellar convinced the man to lift his T-shirt for a photo, and in return Stellar got an eyeful of chest and colorful bird tattoos, a picture Stellar later named "I Got Birds Too."
The man's shirt went back on and a lightbulb went off.
"I walked away from this and went, oh, this is who I am,"' Stellar, 79, said in a recent interview at his TriBeCa apartment.
That chance encounter was an awakening that helped fuel Stellar's decades-long drive to take pictures of unapologetic, maverick gayness as much as he can fit into a day. He's still at it, as his nearly 40,000 Instagram followers can testify.
To be clear, Stellar is gay. Spare him "queer."
"I don't like how gay has been marginalized and dismissed," he said. "At this point in my life, I'm not going to go, Oh yeah, I've always been a queer artist.' No."
From May 1-5, Stellar will step onto possibly his biggest stage when Kapp Kapp, the queer-centered TriBeCa gallery run by the twin brothers Sam and Daniel Kapp, shows his work at Frieze New York, the annual international art fair that returns to the Shed at Hudson Yards.
On view will be 15 of Stellar's "Piers" photographs: assertive portraits and lazy-day snapshots of the mostly gay men who claimed the decrepit West Side piers as social and sexual turf in the 1970s and '80s. Many photographs will be shown in color for the first time; "Stanley Stellar: The Piers," a related book of photos, has been reprinted timed to the fair.
Other, more acclaimed artists made art at, and out of, the piers: David Wojnarowicz, Peter Hujar, Keith Haring, Gordon Matta-Clark. The Kapp brothers hope Frieze will do for Stellar what the Bronx Museum did in 2019 with its career-defining retrospective of Alvin Baltrop, whose photographs of the piers had been largely unheralded.
"Stanley doesn't fit really cleanly into the narrative of what people want a New York City gay photographer to be," said Sam Kapp, who joined his brother on video for an interview. "That's where we've seen our position from the start: how do we contextualize this legend as he deserves to be?"
Among Stellar's fans is the writer and filmmaker Leo Herrera, whose work explores the AIDS generation. He said he admired the photographer's "overall love and appreciation -- a shameless appreciation -- of gay male beauty and gay sexuality during a time when we are facing the same censorship of the '70s and the stigma of the '80s, just on different platforms."
As grateful as Stellar is to be at Frieze, behind his mile-a-minute monologues, he's got a question: What took so long?
"I know that everyone wants to focus on the piers, the piers, the piers," he said. "I'm just too big to focus only on the piers."
Stellar was dressed in a light blue shirt and cargo shorts as he roamed the rent-stabilized apartment where he has lived since 1974 with Tom Miller, a retired linguist and his partner of 50 years. The home doubles as a studio.
Stellar grew up with his parents and brother in a ground floor apartment at Cortelyou Road off Flatbush Avenue, "the most bourgeois section of Brooklyn" at the time, he said. He caught the photography bug at 10 when an uncle gave him a viewfinder camera.
Stellar said he was never in the closet because in his artistic family being "out" wasn't a dirty secret. His father had a custom upholstery, slip cover and drapery shop in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and his mother was "a frustrated painter," as Stellar called her, who one afternoon brought a tray of tea and cookies to her son's boy crush.
Stellar studied graphic design at Parsons and earned a living working for Art Direction magazine. But as a gay commercial photographer, he struggled to get well-paying work, although he has had gallery representation over the years.
He freelanced for gay publications and newsweeklies, filling entire filing cabinets and binders with contact sheets of everything from Wigstock to a model, Tommy.
In 2019, when the Kapp brothers gave him a solo exhibition at their former gallery in Philadelphia, he started to see financial gain. (His photographs sell for $ 4,000 to $ 10,000.)
He now feels financially stable for the first time.
Like Hujar, a good friend, Stellar was a habitué at the piers, but says he was there to cruise and have sex as much as to take pictures in the plein-air studio.
"We never had a place in the sunshine, a place in the light -- there was no place for us to see each other," he said. "And then there was."
In his photographs of young gay men on the cusp of a plague, Stellar is a reminder that many gay men of his generation lived to make art, and their work, then as now, is a testament to a time, and a community. Last summer, GAYLETTER, a queer art magazine founded by Tom Jackson and Abi Benitez, ran on the cover a Stellar photo of a man posing inside a crumbling room at the piers, his backside exposed.
Jackson said he considers Stellar an ethnographer for a generation of gay men too young to remember AIDS.
"I don't think he realized he was creating obituaries," Jackson said.
Herrera, the filmmaker, put it a different way: "A lot of people who had AIDS were photographed by him while they were still beautiful."
Stellar is proud of his nonexplicit work; he said he's photographed almost every New York City Pride march since the first one in 1970. But he knows his piers photos may most define him.
"I never asked you what you thought of the piers," Stellar asked Miller.
"I never asked you either, because we know," Miller said, laughing.
"I did it all for us," Stellar replied, softly. "I photographed us for us."
Photograph Above, the maverick photographer Stanley Stellar in his home and studio in TriBeCa. Top, "Two Boys With Pepsi," 1979, and "I Got Birds Too," 1976. Stellar's work is a testament to a time and a community. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELLIOTT JEROME BROWN JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; STANLEY STELLAR AND KAPP KAPP) (C1); Above, Stanley Stellar's "October," 1982, and left, "Robert Pedantic," 1983. Below from left: Stellar's "September" and "Flip," both from 1979, and "Piers Roof July I, 1978." A show at Frieze New York by the TriBeCa gallery Kapp Kapp highlights Stellar's unapologetic, maverick photographs of men who claimed the decrepit West Side piers as their social and sexual turf. "A lot of people who had AIDS were photographed by him while they were still beautiful," said the writer and filmmaker Leo Herrera. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA STANLEY STELLAR AND KAPP KAPP) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C5.

Subject: Men; Photographs; Photographers

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Frieze New York; NAICS: 711320

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/03/arts/design/stanley-stellar-frieze-photography.html

Title: Capturing Decades Of Gay Life:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 4, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3050390962

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/capturing-decades-gay-life/docview/3050390962/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 4, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-04

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3044121677/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: AUTOMOBILES
Stellantis to Lay Off
Auto Workers to Cut Costs
The Jeep maker Stellantis is planning to lay off an unspecified number of workers at its American factories in the coming months to deal with a rapidly changing global auto market, the company said on Tuesday.
The company faces increased capital spending to make the transition from gasoline vehicles to electric autos. It also has reported declining sales in the United States in the first quarter, and it has higher costs because of a new contract agreement reached last year with the United Auto Workers union.
Stellantis has about 43,000 factory workers.
The company did not give details of when the indefinite layoffs would start or state specific reasons for them, but the trade publication Automotive News reported Monday that Stellantis had laid off 199 full-time workers at its Ram pickup truck factory in Sterling Heights, Mich., north of Detroit.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
EARNINGS
Pepsi Beats Forecasts
With Global Growth
PepsiCo beat Wall Street expectations for first-quarter revenue and profit on Tuesday as demand for its sodas and snacks like Cheetos and Doritos in international markets drove growth, despite a slowdown in the United States.
Consumers across Europe, Asia Pacific and China bought PepsiCo's sodas and chips, while customers in the U.S. cut back because of strained budgets.
The company's average prices jumped 5 percent in the first quarter. Its organic volume slipped 2 percent, compared with a 4 percent drop in the fourth quarter.
International business accounted for about 40 percent of PepsiCo's fiscal 2023 revenue.
PepsiCo has been expanding its portfolio in developed and emerging markets to drive demand by launching items such as flavored Quaker instant oats and Celsius energy drink, said Ramon Laguarta, the C.E.O. REUTERS
COMPANIES
GoFundMe Expands
Into Latin America
Mexican fund-raisers can now solicit donations on GoFundMe, the company announced Tuesday, as the crowdfunding giant expands into what it hopes is the first of more untapped Latin American markets to follow.
Mexico marks the 20th country serviced by GoFundMe. The for-profit platform is eyeing new international targets now that the unprecedented strain of crowdfunding campaign levels spawned by Covid-19 has eased to prepandemic figures, C.E.O. Tim Cadogan told The Associated Press.
Mexico's status as one of the world's largest 15 economies and a close U.S. partner made it a logical fit, said Mr. Cadogan, as did on-the-ground interest evidenced by high search volume for GoFundMe and user attempts to establish in-country campaigns.
The company finds that its generally popular appeals for help with medical expenses and emergency aid are also common in Mexico. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Credit: By The Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED SHAFFREY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Crowdfunding; Corporate profits; Layoffs; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Crowdfunding Corporate profits Layoffs Factories

Location: Mexico; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111; Name: GoFundMe; NAICS: 518210

URL: http s://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/23/business/24bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 24, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3044121677

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3044121677/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

To Fight 'Shrinkflation,' France Will Force Retailers to Post Signs Warning Shoppers: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Alderman, Liz

Publication info: Alderman, Liz. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fight-shrinkflation-france-will-force-retailers/docview/3041835327/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Merchants will be required to put signs in front of all products that have been reduced in size without a corresponding price cut.
For months, the shelves of Carrefour, France's biggest supermarket chain, have been dotted with bright orange signs placed in front of Pepsi bottles, Lays potato chips and a variety of other foods whose packages are suspiciously smaller than they used to be.
"Shrinkflation," the signs say. "This product has seen its volume decrease and the price charged by our supplier increase."
On Friday, the French government took steps to require every food retailer in the country to follow suit. By July 1, stores will have to plaster warnings in front of all products that have been reduced in size without a corresponding price cut, in a bid to combat the consumer scourge known as shrinkflation.
"The practice of shrinkflation is a scam," Bruno Le Maire, France's finance minister, said in a statement. "We are putting an end to it."
The government is also encouraging shoppers to act as informers, urging those "who have doubts about the price per unit of measurement displayed on the shelves" to flag it to the authorities via France's consumer reporting app.
The fight against the practice of downsizing products without also downsizing their prices has picked up in the United States, where President Biden has shamed food companies for raising prices even as inflation cooled.
Shrinkflation has become a point of outrage for shoppers in France, and a political issue for President Emmanuel Macron as consumers continue to grapple with a cost-of-living crisis. Although inflation has recently come down in Europe from the record highs of a year ago, the prices of many food products remain elevated.
Inflation in the eurozone fell to a new two-year low in March, the result of an aggressive campaign of interest rate increases by the European Central Bank. European governments had also worked to ease prices for energy and food, through subsidies for electric bills and by negotiating with food manufacturers to force prices down.
In France, inflation has fallen now more than a third from a year earlier, but higher food prices have been persistent. A typical basket of food basics that includes items such as pasta and yogurt is 3 to 5 percent higher than it was a year ago, after a 16 percent surge for 2023.
Mr. Macron had promised to wrestle food costs down further this year. The government moved up annual price negotiations between suppliers and retailers in February, and put pressure on companies to limit increases.
The shrinkflation campaign is the latest weapon. Stores will have to display signs for two months after downsized products have been put on their shelves, according to the government decree issued Friday. The signs will appear near a variety of goods made by food companies, as well as for the supermarket's private-label brands, from snacks and soda to bags of rice and laundry detergent. Prepackaged foods, like shrink-wrapped deli cold cuts or foods sold in bulk, will be exempt.
Many global consumer goods companies have raised prices by double-digit percentages in the past year, attributing the increases to higher costs of ingredients and labor. Even so, many of those companies have reported expanding profits as they sell fewer items at higher prices.
The issue came to a head in France last year when Carrefour announced that it would no longer sell PepsiCo products because the prices were "unacceptably" high for consumers, escalating a showdown by French retailers to name and shame brands that were not reducing prices as inflation eases.
As part of its campaign, Carrefour also put up shrinkflation posters next to products like Lipton tea warning shoppers that they were paying a higher price for a product whose volume had shrunk.
France has submitted a proposal to the European Union that would force food retailers throughout Europe to carry out a shrinkflation labeling campaign.
Photograph At a Carrefour in Paris, signs indicate snacks that have been downsized. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH MEYSSONNIER/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Consumers; Food; Price cuts; Consumer education; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Price cuts Grocery stores

Location: France; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Carrefour SA; NAICS: 445110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/19/business/france-economy-food-prices-shrinkflation.html

Title: To Fight 'Shrinkflation,' France Will Force Retailers to Post Signs Warning Shoppers:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 20, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3041835327

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fight-shrinkflation-france-will-force-retailers/docview/3041835327/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 20, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Robert Beerbohm, 71, Early Comic Book Seller And Historian, Is Dead: [Biography]

Author: Rosenwald, Michael S

Publication info: Rosenwald, Michael S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/robert-beerbohm-71-early-comic-book-seller/docview/3041063633/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A professed archaeologist of the industry, he opened his own stores and partnered with other experts and vendors in the nascent comics business.
Robert Beerbohm, who in the 1970s helped start the first comic book chain stores and then, after a flood wiped out inventory in his warehouse, became a professed archaeologist of comics history, died on March 27 at his home in Fremont, Neb. He was 71.
His daughter, Katy Beerbohm-Young, said the cause was colorectal cancer.
A pugnacious character on the comic book scene for decades, Mr. Beerbohm once summed up his career as "a hobby that got way out of hand."
It started in his early teens, when he boarded a Greyhound bus in Nebraska for a 28-hour trip to sell comics at a convention in Houston. It ended as he was trying to finish writing "Comic Book Wars," his eagerly awaited magnum opus about the industry.
In between, Mr. Beerbohm waited on Jerry Garcia, Robin Williams and Bruce Lee at his stores in California; discovered what was believed to be the first comic book printed in the United States; and discussed comic book history with the gentleness of a heavyweight boxer.
(On Facebook, one of his last posts lamented "bold faced liars" at comic book rating agencies who would "make stuff up out of thin air" and prey on buyers as if they were "rubes unsuspectingly entering a carnival.")
"I liked the presence he had in comic book land as one of those feverishly enthusiastic fans and scholars and networkers," the Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist Art Spiegelman, a friend, said in an interview. "He was kind of manic. He came with a lot of enthusiasm, but that was one of his most endearing qualities."
As a teenager, Mr. Beerbohm traversed the country on weekends and breaks from school in his Rambler Classic, selling comics at conventions. In 1972, he dropped out of college and moved to San Francisco, where he hooked up with the comic book dealers John Barrett and Bud Plant.
These were the early days of comic fandom, when the industry shifted from newsstand and supermarket sales to direct retail. As comic book stores began opening around the country, Mr. Beerbohm and his partners opened Comics and Comix on Telegraph Avenue in Berkeley, near the University of California.
Students left with their purchases wrapped in brown paper bags. "When we first opened up, the Berkeley police were convinced we were a major drug smuggler," Mr. Beerbohm said in a podcast interview with Comic Book Historians, an online fanzine.
The next year they opened a second store, in San Francisco, followed by outlets in San Jose and Sacramento, and Comics and Comix thus became what is widely considered to be the first comic book retail chain. The company eventually operated seven locations in California.
Mr. Beerbohm left the business in 1975 after a falling-out with his partners. In 1976, he opened his own store, Best of Two Worlds, on Haight Street in San Francisco. Two others stores followed, including one a block away from his old partners in Berkeley.
He was an evangelist for his hobby.
"At the time, comics were still kind of viewed as the bastard stepchild of any other medium that you could think of," said the artist and cartoonist Bill Sienkiewicz, who shopped at Mr. Beerbohm's stores. "He really sort of foretold the acceptance, and really pushed for the level of acceptance, that comics currently have."
Conversations with Mr. Beerbohm could stretch on for hours.
"He was like a total nerd in terms of the history of this stuff," Mr. Sienkiewicz said. "He was kind of like a historian who happened to run a shop."
In 1986, a flood at Mr. Beerbohm's warehouse forced him to close two of his three stores. He opened another, but without a large stock, his business never fully recovered.
As time went on, Mr. Beerbohm became more and more consumed by comics history. He hosted an internet chat group and contributed articles to trade publications, including The Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide, an industry authority that publishes treatises on comics history.
One of his specialties was the so-called platinum age, a period beginning in 1897 when comic strips began appearing in newspapers. For decades, historians believed that the first comic book was the collection "Yellow Kid in McFadden's Flats," which contained reprints of the comic strip "The Yellow Kid" that originally appeared in The New York World.
But in 1998, a woman in Oakland called Mr. Beerbohm. She had a comic called "The Adventures of Obadiah Oldbuck," by Rodolphe Töpffer, which had been published as a supplement in Brother Jonathan, a weekly newspaper in New York. It had been in her family for generations. She also had a letter from her grandfather that said, "Don't sell this -- it's the first comic book."
She wanted to sell it.
At that point, the industry dogma was that the "Yellow Kid" collection was the first American comic book. Mr. Beerbohm told her that he'd double any offer she got. After another dealer offered her $ 100, he bought it for $ 200. The publication date: Sept. 14, 1842.
"He really expanded everyone's knowledge going back a lot farther than anyone would have really thought," said Alex Grand, the creator of Comic Book Historians.
Robert Lee Beerbohm was born on June 17, 1952, in Long Beach, Calif. His father, Verriel Beerbohm, worked primarily in the shipping industry. His mother, Jean (Bailey) Beerbohm, managed the home.
When he was 6, the family moved to Saudi Arabia, where his father worked for Aramco, the state-owned oil and natural gas company.
"That's where he started reading comics -- not just American comics, but comics from literally all over the world," his daughter said.
Six years later, the family moved to Fremont, Neb., where his father bought a local Pepsi distributor. Robert used the refunded deposits from recycled bottles to buy comic books.
He was accepted in the pre-med program at the University of Nebraska, but he dropped out after a year to enter the nascent comics business in California.
His track record was not unblemished: Over the years, he was accused by his business partners and customers of shady dealings -- all of which he denied.
In 2014, he was charged in Nebraska with theft by deception after agreeing to sell items for a customer on consignment. Ms. Beerbohm-Young, Mr. Beerbohm's daughter, said the seller had been trying to communicate with him while he was away at a convention and contacted the police after he didn't respond. According to court documents, the case was dismissed.
"It's true that my dad could be a handful," she said. "He was kind of a cranky guy. But he was also very, very generous, and he loved comic books and everything about them."
Mr. Beerbohm married Susan Ward Young in 1973. They separated in 1981 and were estranged when he died. In addition to her and his daughter, he is survived by two stepsons, Stephen and Robert Jones.
Mr. Beerbohm didn't finish "Comic Book Wars," but he left behind copious notes. His daughter said she hoped to find a writer to complete the book.
He deplored the current state of collecting, with buyers treating their purchases as investments and sealing them in hard plastic cases so that the pages don't crease.
"I mean, that's, like, boring to me," he told Comic Book Historians.
He wanted comics buyers to keep turning the pages.
Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Art Spiegelman drew a sketch in 2000 depicting himself as "Maus" and Mr. Beerbohm as Obadiah Oldbuck. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ART SPIEGELMAN, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED); Robert Beerbohm in an undated photo and, left, at a comic book convention. His life in comics began when he was in middle school and traveled from Nebraska to Houston to sell comics. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA BEERBOHM FAMILY) This article appeared in print on page B12.

Subject: Comic books; Cartoonists; Historians; Shipping industry; Deaths

Business indexing term: Subject: Shipping industry

Location: California; New York; United States--US; Nebraska; San Francisco California

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/15/arts/robert-beerbohm-dead.html

Title: Robert Beerbohm, 71, Early Comic Book Seller And Historian, Is Dead:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.12

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 19, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 3041063633

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/robert-beerbohm-71-early-comic-book-seller/docview/3041063633/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 19, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-19

Database: Global Newsstream Colle ction

____________________________________________________________

This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.Graffiti Goes From Eyesore to Asset: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kwai, Isabella

Publication info: Kwai, Isabella. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-article-appeared-print-on-page-b1-b3/docview/3033796435/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Julian Phethean's first canvas in London was a shed in his backyard where he covered the walls with bold lettering in spray paint. When he moved his art to the city's streets in the 1980s, it was largely unwelcome -- and he was even arrested a few times.
"We had nowhere to practice," he said. "It was just seen as vandalism."
These days, the canvases come to Mr. Phethean, better known as the muralist Mr Cenz. Recent facades, which he shares with his sizable following, have included an abstract mural on a Tesla showroom and a portrait of Biggie Smalls, sponsored by Pepsi Max.
"I never would have envisioned that I'd be able to do it for a living," he said.
Landlords wanting to attract young professionals once scrubbed off the rebellious scrawls. That was before graffiti moved from countercultural to mainstream. Now building owners are willing to pay for it.
From Berlin to London to Miami, the wider acceptance of graffiti has attracted developers looking to expand into trendy areas, companies wanting to relocate to hipper neighborhoods and brands seeking creative ways to advertise their products.
But that attention to once overlooked neighborhoods has pushed up rents, leaving artists, fans and local officials with a quandary: What happens after the street art that brought character becomes commodified?
Contemporary graffiti traces back to the anti-establishment expression of the 1960s and 1970s, when anyone with a can of spray paint could tag the sidewalks of Philadelphia and the subway cars of New York. In Soviet-era Berlin, protesters splattered the west side of the wall while the east side remained blank -- until it fell in 1989, opening vast new canvases overnight.
The gallery world took note, but it was social media and the fame of artists like Banksy, Vhils and Lady Pink that propelled it to a wider audience. What followed was a movement that experts say has been reproduced from Australia to Argentina, as street art added to a neighborhood's cultural cachet.
Take Shoreditch in east London as an example: Decades ago, developers deemed it a run-down industrial area. Still, it was a sanctuary for artists who made use of cheap rents to build a creative enclave.
"What artists bring is a sense of buzz: newness, creativity, trends," said Rosie Haslem, managing director of Streetsense UK, a consulting agency. "Hipsters attract more hipsters who have more money and are able to start paying higher prices."
That buzz also drew developers and companies that sought to leverage the popularity of Shoreditch. A former tea-packing plant now hosts a branch of the private members' club Soho House. Down the road is Amazon's largest corporate office in the region.
Spray painters still add political messages to the mosaic of artwork in east London. But they are nestled between more commercial interests: hand-painted campaigns sponsored by L'Oréal, Sky and Adidas, and street tours that treat the art as a tourist attraction.
Many campaigns are from agencies that act as middlemen between artists and the businesses interested in their work.
"We were splashing around in the water and a wave came," said Lee Bofkin, a co-founder of Global Street Art, a London advertising agency. In the decade since its inception, it has grown to more than 30 employees, and Adidas, Moncler and Valentino have leased its walls.
Developers are responsible for a chunk of the 300 or so murals splattering Miami's Wynwood neighborhood. The windowless walls of the former garment district had long appealed to graffiti artists, but one developer helped drive the 2009 opening of the Wynwood Walls, an open-air gallery visited by three million people each year.
"We had to find a carrot to try to bring investment into the area," said Manny Gonzalez, the executive director of the Wynwood Business Improvement District. Street art, he said, was the lure. "We knew that we needed to keep the art."
Five years ago, there were no office buildings in Wynwood. Now, tenants include Spotify, the accounting firm PwC and the venture capitalist Founders Fund. Sony Music has leased office space there. And tech companies from San Francisco and New York are coming, Mr. Gonzalez said.
Those employees will need somewhere to live, and developers are betting they stay local. At the forefront is the Related Group, a developer that has built a "market rate" co-living apartment building with a rooftop pool and a distinctive mural by the artist El Mac. Last year, Related broke ground on luxury condominiums, and it commissions artists to add visual flair to its buildings.
"Every lobby, every hallway, common space, public area of the building has art in it," said Patricia Hanna, art director at Related. "The philosophy is to continue what Wynwood is."
For investors, backing buildings in these districts is paying off. In Shoreditch, leasing a prime work space cost about $ 90 per square foot in the last quarter of 2023, according to CBRE, 112 percent higher than the same quarter in 2008. Rents in the City of London, the financial district, increased 40 percent in the same period.
The asking price for office leases in Wynwood was about $ 80 per square foot in the fourth quarter of 2023, 83 percent higher than the average in Miami-Dade County, according to Colliers.
The east side of the Berlin Wall in Friedrichshain is now an open-air gallery, and the average rent in the area has doubled in the past 10 years, higher growth than in neighboring districts, according to Savills. Developers have tried to bring that artistic buzz to other neighborhoods: One popular exhibit, The Haus, was hosted in a former bank by a developer, Pandion, which later replaced the old building with sleek condominiums. All of them have sold.
A large outdoor facade could cost six figures, said Charlotte Specht, a co-founder of Basa Studio, an agency in Berlin that has helped street artists collaborate with brands like Maybelline and Netflix. Brands eager for campaigns have a demographic in mind for their target customers: "They use Uber, they have an Apple Mac, they get their latte to go, they travel," Ms. Specht said.
Street art had acted as "a powerful engine" to turn some neighborhoods into economic and cultural centers, said Thomas Zabel, managing director of Savills Germany. "Everybody wants to live there."
But officials are wondering how to regulate street art, and whether the commercialization changes a neighborhood's identity.
In Lisbon, a municipal body called the Urban Art Gallery presides over new creations, resulting in a visual feast: Street art is splashed on walkways and train stations, and officials have pushed street art festivals and tours to beautify the city's rougher neighborhoods. International students, digital nomads and foreign investors have rushed in.
Researchers say Lisbon has successfully used that art to brand itself as a hip destination. But its revival is divisive for the city's less privileged, who argue that they have been pushed out of their homes.
In Wynwood, property owners promise that they intend to preserve the neighborhood's artistic heritage. New buildings must include some art on their facades, and hand-painted advertisements are illegal.
But those regulations, some say, have led to diminishing organic spaces for artists, who cannot make the most of sponsored opportunities. "The developers become gatekeepers to some extent as to what the public gets to see," said Allison Freidin, a co-founder of Miami's Museum of Graffiti. "And you hope that the developers make a great decision."
A harder-to-quantify cost is the displacement of residents who can no longer afford to live there.
"It's really seen as a success story: Oh, look how art transformed this desolate area of a wasteland into this beautiful successful hipster area with restaurants and tourists," said Rafael Schacter, an anthropologist at University College London. The art, he believes, has been complicit in erasing communities for not being "the right kind of people."
Residents have pushed back. In Kreuzberg, a cultural haven near Berlin's old wall, residents criticized the opening of a Google tech incubator, which eventually moved elsewhere. Artists there have painted over their own murals to protest gentrification and voiced concerns over sponsored content's replacing public art. In Los Angeles, graffiti artists risked trespassing charges to slather an abandoned luxury tower, which in turn has boosted curiosity toward it.
Aware of the tensions, businesses have started charitable arms that their commercial projects help fund. Some, like Global Street Art, paint murals in local neighborhoods. Others, like Basa Studio, say they want to help artists get paid fairly for their contributions.
But places like Shoreditch have already lost their edge as they have turned mainstream, Ms. Haslem of Streetsense, the consulting agency, said. "The risk in commodifying or commercializing some of this graffiti is you end up sanitizing it," she said.
"It's a double-edged sword," said Dean Stockton, who has painted for years under the name D*Face. He was disconcerted by the number of tourists on buses who stared as he worked on a recent Wynwood mural with the words "I WANT TO LEAVE."
"If you are going to dance with the devil," he said, "make sure you are getting paid handsomely."

Subject: Graffiti; Spray painting; Artists; Office space; Public art; Neighborhoods; Buildings; Art galleries & museums; Murals

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/31/business/graffiti-real-estate-gentrification.html

Title: This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.Graffiti Goes From Eyesore to Asset:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 6, 2024

column: Square Feet

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 3033796435

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-article-appeared-print-on-page-b1-b3/docview/3033796435/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Graffiti Moves From Eyesore to Amenity, Landlords Try to Cash In

Author: Kwai, Isabella

Publication info: Kwai, Isabella. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-graffiti-moves-eyesore-amenity-landlords-try/docview/3033715798/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Julian Phethean’s first canvas in London was a shed in his backyard where he covered the walls with bold lettering in spray paint. When he moved his art to the city’s streets in the 1980s, it was largely unwelcome — and he was even arrested a few times.
“We had nowhere to practice,” he said. “It was just seen as vandalism.”
These days, the canvases come to Phethean, better known as muralist Mr Cenz. Recent facades, which he shares with his sizable following, have included an abstract mural on a Tesla showroom and a portrait of Biggie Smalls, sponsored by Pepsi Max.
“I never would have envisioned that I’d be able to do it for a living,” he said.
Landlords wanting to attract young professionals once scrubbed off the rebellious scrawls. That was before graffiti moved from countercultural to mainstream. Now building owners are willing to pay for it.
From Berlin to London to Miami, the wider acceptance of graffiti has attracted developers looking to expand into trendy areas, companies wanting to relocate to hipper neighborhoods and brands seeking creative ways to advertise their products.
But that attention to once overlooked neighborhoods has pushed up rents, leaving artists, fans and local officials with a quandary: What happens after the street art that brought character becomes commodified?
Contemporary graffiti traces back to the anti-establishment expression of the 1960s and 1970s, when anyone with a can of spray paint could tag the sidewalks of Philadelphia and the subway cars of New York. In Soviet-era Berlin, protesters splattered the west side of the wall while the east side remained blank — until it fell in 1989, opening vast new canvases overnight.
The gallery world took note, but it was social media and the fame of artists like Banksy, Vhils and Lady Pink that propelled it to a wider audience. What followed was a movement that experts say has been reproduced from Australia to Argentina, as street art added to a neighborhood’s cultural cachet.
Take Shoreditch in east London as an example: Decades ago, developers deemed it a run-down industrial area. Still, it was a sanctuary for artists who made use of cheap rents to build a creative enclave.
“What artists bring is a sense of buzz: newness, creativity, trends,” said Rosie Haslem, managing director of Streetsense UK, a consulting agency. “Hipsters attract more hipsters who have more money and are able to start paying higher prices.”
That buzz also drew developers and companies that sought to leverage the popularity of Shoreditch. A former tea-packing plant now hosts a branch of the private members’ club Soho House. Down the road is Amazon’s largest corporate office in the region.
Spray painters still add political messages to the mosaic of artwork in east London. But they are nestled between more commercial interests: hand-painted campaigns sponsored by L’Oréal, Sky and Adidas, and street tours that treat the art as a tourist attraction.
Many campaigns are from agencies that act as middlemen between artists and the businesses interested in their work.
“We were splashing around in the water and a wave came,” said Lee Bofkin, a co-founder of Global Street Art, a London advertising agency. In the decade since its inception, it has grown to more than 30 employees, and Adidas, Moncler and Valentino have leased its walls.
Developers are responsible for a chunk of the 300 or so murals splattering Miami's Wynwood neighborhood. The windowless walls of the former garment district had long appealed to graffiti artists, but one developer helped drive the 2009 opening of the Wynwood Walls, an open-air gallery visited by 3 million people each year.
“We had to find a carrot to try to bring investment into the area,” said Manny Gonzalez, the executive director of the Wynwood Business Improvement District. Street art, he said, was the lure. “We knew that we needed to keep the art.”
Five years ago, there were no office buildings in Wynwood. Now, tenants include Spotify, accounting firm PwC and the venture capitalist Founders Fund. Sony Music has leased office space there. And tech companies from San Francisco and New York are coming, Gonzalez said.
Those employees will need somewhere to live, and developers are betting they stay local. At the forefront is the Related Group, a developer that has built a “market rate” co-living apartment building with a rooftop pool and a distinctive mural by artist El Mac. Last year, Related broke ground on luxury condominiums, and it commissions artists to add visual flair to its buildings.
“Every lobby, every hallway, common space, public area of the building has art in it,” said Patricia Hanna, art director at Related. “The philosophy is to continue what Wynwood is.”
For investors, backing buildings in these districts is paying off. In Shoreditch, leasing a prime workspace cost about $90 per square foot in the last quarter of 2023, according to CBRE, 112% higher than the same quarter in 2008. Rents in the City of London financial district increased 40% in the same period.
The asking price for office leases in Wynwood was about $80 per square foot in the fourth quarter of 2023, 83% higher than the average in Miami-Dade County, according to Colliers.
The east side of the Berlin Wall in Friedrichshain is now an open-air gallery, and the average rent in the area has doubled in the past 10 years, higher growth than in neighboring districts, according to Savills.
Developers have tried to bring that artistic buzz to other neighborhoods: One popular exhibit, The Haus, was hosted in a former bank by a developer, Pandion, which later replaced the old building with sleek condominiums. All of them have sold.
A large outdoor facade could cost six figures, said Charlotte Specht, a co-founder of Basa Studio, an agency in Berlin that has helped street artists collaborate with brands like Maybelline and Netflix. Brands eager for campaigns have a demographic in mind for their target customers: “They use Uber, they have an Apple Mac, they get their latte to go, they travel,” Specht said.
Street art had acted as “a powerful engine” to turn some neighborhoods into economic and cultural centers, said Thomas Zabel, managing director of Savills Germany. “Everybody wants to live there.”
But officials are wondering how to regulate street art, and whether the commercialization changes a neighborhood’s identity.
In Lisbon, Portugal, a municipal body called the Urban Art Gallery presides over new creations, resulting in a visual feast: Street art is splashed on walkways and train stations, and officials have pushed street art festivals and tours to beautify the city’s rougher neighborhoods. International students, digital nomads and foreign investors have rushed in.
Researchers say Lisbon has successfully used that art to brand itself as a hip destination. But its revival is divisive for the city’s less privileged, who argue that they have been pushed out of their homes.
In Wynwood, property owners promise that they intend to preserve the neighborhood’s artistic heritage. New buildings must include some art on their facades, and hand-painted advertisements are illegal.
But those regulations, some say, have led to diminishing organic spaces for artists, who cannot make the most of sponsored opportunities. “The developers become gatekeepers to some extent as to what the public gets to see,” said Allison Freidin, a co-founder of Miami’s Museum of Graffiti. “And you hope that the developers make a great decision.”
A harder-to-quantify cost is the displacement of residents who can no longer afford to live there.
“It’s really seen as a success story: Oh, look how art transformed this desolate area of a wasteland into this beautiful successful hipster area with restaurants and tourists,” said Rafael Schacter, an anthropologist at University College London. The art, he believes, has been complicit in erasing communities for not being “the right kind of people.”
Residents have pushed back. In Kreuzberg, a cultural haven near Berlin’s old wall, residents criticized the opening of a Google tech incubator, which eventually moved elsewhere. Artists there have painted over their own murals to protest gentrification and voiced concerns over sponsored content’s replacing public art. In Los Angeles, graffiti artists risked trespassing charges to slather an abandoned luxury tower, which in turn has boosted curiosity toward it.
Aware of the tensions, businesses have started charitable arms that their commercial projects help fund. Some, including London’s Global Street Art, paint murals in local neighborhoods. Others, such as Basa Studio, say they want to help artists get paid fairly for their contributions.
But places like Shoreditch have already lost their edge as they have turned mainstream, said Haslem of Streetsense, the consulting agency. “The risk in commodifying or commercializing some of this graffiti is you end up sanitizing it,” she said.
“It’s a double-edged sword,” Dean Stockton, who has painted for years under the name D*Face. He was disconcerted by the number of tourists on buses who stared as he worked on a recent Wynwood mural with the words “I WANT TO LEAVE.”
“If you are going to dance with the devil,” he said, “make sure you are getting paid handsomely.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Artists; Buildings; Art galleries & museums; Murals; Graffiti; Spray painting; Painters; Office space; Public art; Neighborhoods

Business indexing term: Subject: Art galleries & museums

Location: New York; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: Adidas AG; NAICS: 315250, 3162 10, 339920

Identifier / keyword: Banksy; Tesla Motors Inc; Relocation Of Business; San Francisco (Calif); Area Planning And Renewal; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Philadelphia (Pa); Cohousing Communities; Gentrification; Political Advertising; Netflix Inc; Subways; Ussr (Former Soviet Union); Moncler (Fashion Label); New York City; Founders Fund; Great Britain; Financial District (Manhattan, Ny); Pepsico Inc; Renting And Leasing (Real Estate); Lisbon (Portugal); Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Murals; Telecommuting; Pricewaterhousecoopers; Apple Inc; Germany; Google Inc; Museums; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Wallace, Christopher G; Uber Technologies Inc; Finances; Online Advertising; Railroads; Graffiti; Soho House Uk Ltd; Art; Sony Music; Wages And Salaries; Portugal; Music; AmazonCom Inc; Advertising And Marketing; Apple Music; Trespassing; Los Angeles (Calif); Landlords; Entrepreneurship; Vhils (1987 ); Spotify; Paint; Real Estate (Commercial); Transit Systems; Berlin (Germany); Travel And Vacations; Australia; Building (Construction); University College London; Soho (Manhattan, Ny); Miami Dade County (Fla); Museum Of Graffiti; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Street Performers; Business; Shoreditch (London, England); Adidas Ag; Sony Corporation; Urban Areas; Argentina; Garment District (Manhattan, Ny); Wynwood (Miami, Fla); Soho House (Manhattan, Ny); Maybel line Llc

Title: As Graffiti Moves From Eyesore to Amenity, Landlords Try to Cash In

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 5, 2024

Dateline: 2024-04-05T22:14:24Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3033715798

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-graffiti-moves-eyesore-amenity-landlords-try/docview/3033715798/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

NBC Chief Of News Navigates A Crisis: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Grynbaum, Michael M; Koblin, John

Publication info: Grynbaum, Michael M; Koblin, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nbc-chief-news-navigates-crisis/docview/3020706962/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Cesar Conde, a leader with an M.B.A. but a limited journalism background, is facing the toughest scrutiny of his career.
Cesar Conde is not the typical leader of a major news institution.
A Wharton-trained executive who revived the fortunes of Telemundo and sits on the boards of Pepsi and Walmart, Mr. Conde had limited experience in journalism when, in 2020, he became the chairman of NBC's sprawling news division, including MSNBC, CNBC and franchises like "Meet the Press," "Nightly News" and the "Today" show.
Now he is trying to navigate the biggest crisis of his tenure: a journalistic firestorm that prompted an open revolt among his stars and has fueled internal questions about just how neatly Mr. Conde's corporate experience and ambitions gel with the unique challenges of the news business.
The rapid hiring and dismissal of Ronna McDaniel, the former chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, stunned network journalists over the past week, with many asking why Mr. Conde and his deputies had brought on someone who had vilified NBC and advanced former President Donald J. Trump's efforts to overturn the 2020 election.
The blowback facing Mr. Conde, 50, a former fellow in George W. Bush's White House who prides himself on having an even-keeled, nonpartisan reputation, is coming from both sides of the aisle. Left-leaning fans of MSNBC felt betrayed, and Republican officials are mocking NBC as biased, even threatening to bar its reporters from this summer's nominating convention.
At elite retreats like the Aspen Ideas Festival, Mr. Conde, who declined to be interviewed, likes to say he runs "the largest news organization in the country." As he heads into the scrutiny of a general-election campaign, he is discovering just how hard that job can be.
Two of Mr. Conde's newsroom leaders -- Rebecca Blumenstein, the NBC News president of editorial, and Carrie Budoff Brown, who oversees political coverage -- recommended Ms. McDaniel to Mr. Conde; Rashida Jones, the MSNBC president, also signed off, according to two people familiar with the discussions. Mr. Conde trusted the judgment of his top journalists, the people said.
"I want to personally apologize to our team members who felt we let them down," Mr. Conde said in a staff memo this week. "While this was a collective recommendation by some members of our leadership team, I approved it and take full responsibility."
A longtime fixture of media power lists, Mr. Conde is well regarded by other executives in the industry. He was a high-ranking leader at Univision before joining NBCUniversal in 2013 and orchestrating a turnaround at Telemundo by investing in soccer and prime-time scripted series, most notably "narconovelas," or crime dramas about drug cartels.
He also invested in journalism. Telemundo landed Mr. Trump's first interview of his presidency with a Spanish-language outlet and cosponsored Republican and Democratic primary debates. Ratings for Telemundo's flagship newscast soared.
His performance impressed executives at NBC's parent company, Comcast. In May 2020, Jeff Shell, then the NBCUniversal chief executive, put Mr. Conde in charge of the NBC News Group, replacing a veteran newsman, Andrew Lack.
Privately, Mr. Shell acknowledged that Mr. Conde had a different background from his predecessor.
According to two people familiar with his remarks, Mr. Shell said there were three types of leaders who ran news organizations. "Journalists, politicians and businesspeople," Mr. Shell said, the two people recalled. "Cesar is a politician."
Under Mr. Conde's watch, the news division has expanded its digital efforts, and MSNBC's and NBC's flagship TV programs have continued to draw good ratings. On Friday, Mike Cavanagh, the president of Comcast, praised Mr. Conde's stewardship "during a time of transition" in media. "The performance of the News Group speaks to his great leadership especially during challenging times," he said in a statement.
Some of Mr. Conde's moves raised eyebrows in the NBC newsroom.
He arranged for lists of on-air guests to be forwarded to his office, so he could drop by and greet influential and powerful visitors. When Mr. Bush was interviewed on "Today" in 2021 by his daughter, Jenna Bush Hager, Mr. Conde asked his office to forward his biography to the former president in advance, according to two people familiar with the arrangement. (Mr. Conde often speaks admiringly about his time working as a fellow for Secretary of State Colin Powell under Mr. Bush.)
Mr. Conde also retained his board seats at Pepsi and Walmart, from which he earned more than $ 640,000 in compensation last year, according to financial filings. News leaders usually strive to avoid even the appearance of conflict of interest. Mr. Conde has said he recuses himself from any editorial decisions involving the two companies. (He is also a trustee at the Aspen Institute, which sponsors the Ideas Festival; in 2021, under Mr. Conde, NBC News Group signed a partnership to be the institute's media partner.)
Inside 30 Rockefeller Plaza, part of the concern stems from a jigsawlike management structure that Mr. Conde announced last year. He said at the time that the change was necessary to "seize the growth opportunities in front of us" and adapt to rapidly changing viewer habits and business models in news.
Under Mr. Conde's plan, Ms. Blumenstein, the president of NBC News editorial, oversees "Meet the Press" and NBCNews.com, but not "NBC Nightly News" or NBC News Now, the network's streaming service. Her purview is separate from the "Today" franchise. And MSNBC and CNBC are siloed in different divisions.
On Thursday, Ms. Blumenstein, who is a former editor at The New York Times, visited NBC's Washington bureau to try to quell some of her journalists' concerns.
In a 40-minute meeting -- along with one-on-one sessions with prominent reporters -- she told staff that NBC leaders had good intentions in hiring Ms. McDaniel, and urged the newsroom to move forward, according to a person briefed on her remarks. Ms. Blumenstein also expressed surprise that her visit to the bureau had leaked to other news organizations before she even arrived, the person said.
Ms. Blumenstein expressed support for Ms. Brown, the head of political coverage, who was closely involved in Ms. McDaniel's hiring, according to two people familiar with her comments. At the start of the revolt against Ms. McDaniel, Ms. Brown spoke with a Republican Party operative about marshaling public support for the former party chair. That conversation, reported by Puck, raised deep concerns in the Washington bureau that several journalists there said had yet to be adequately addressed.
In an email to The Times on Friday, Ms. Blumenstein wrote: "I came to NBC News because of Cesar's rare blend of deep media experience and business acumen. One will not find a greater supporter of original journalism on so many mediums."
Asked to elaborate on the process behind Ms. McDaniel's hiring, Ms. Blumenstein deferred to the language in Mr. Conde's memo, in which he called the hiring a collective recommendation that he had approved. "As I've said to our team, we should not have brought her on," she wrote of Ms. McDaniel.
Ms. Blumenstein did not respond to questions about Ms. Brown's interaction with the Republican operative, or how she planned to address the staff concerns about Ms. Brown.
Tom Llamas, an NBC News anchor and senior correspondent whom Mr. Conde helped recruit from ABC, said in an interview on Friday that he admired Mr. Conde's commitment to the organization.
"When you meet Cesar he'll tell you he's not a journalist. But I can tell you he's a guy who wants to make sure quality journalism doesn't disappear," Mr. Llamas said.
Asked about the events surrounding Ms. McDaniel, Mr. Llamas replied: "It happened, leadership dealt with it, Cesar put out a note, we're moving on. They acknowledge what happened, and how they handled it, and hopefully it's going to make us stronger."
Benjamin Mullin contributed reporting.
Benjamin Mullin contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Journalism; Editorials; Leadership; Presidents; Journalists; Interviews; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Executives

People: McDaniel, Ronna Romney; Conde, Cesar

Company / organization: Name: MSNBC; NAICS: 513140, 516210; Name: Comcast Corp; NAICS: 517111, 517112, 517810; Name: NBCUniversal Inc; NAICS: 512110, 516120; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211; Name: NBC News Channel; NAICS: 516120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/29/business/media/nbc-news-cesar-conde.html

Title: NBC Chief Of News Navigates A Crisis:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 1, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3020706962

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nbc-chief-news-navigates-crisis/docview/3020706962/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Brutality of Sugar: Debt, Child Marriage and Hysterectomies

Author: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam

Publication info: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brutality-sugar-debt-child-marriage/docview/2973783482/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BEED, India — Archana Ashok Chaure has given her life to sugar.
She was married off to a sugar cane laborer in western India at about 14 — “too young,” she said, “to have any idea what marriage was.” Debt to her employer keeps her in the fields.
Last winter, she did what thousands of women here are pressured to do when faced with painful periods or routine ailments: She got a hysterectomy and got back to work.
This keeps sugar flowing to companies like Coke and Pepsi.
The two soft drink makers have helped turn the state of Maharashtra into a sugar-producing powerhouse. But a New York Times and Fuller Project investigation has found that these brands have also profited from a brutal system of labor that exploits children and leads to the unnecessary sterilization of working-age women.
Our reporters interviewed people at every stage of the supply chain, including dozens of laborers, contractors, mill owners and former executives at multinational companies. The Times also examined medical records and interviewed doctors, lawmakers, government officials, researchers and aid workers who have spent careers examining the livelihoods of Maharashtra’s sugar workers.
Young girls are pushed into illegal child marriages so they can work alongside their husbands cutting and gathering sugar cane. Instead of receiving wages, they work to pay off advances from their employers — an arrangement that requires them to pay a fee for the privilege of missing work, even to see a doctor.
An extreme yet common consequence of this financial entrapment is hysterectomies. Labor brokers loan money for the surgeries, even to resolve ailments as routine as heavy, painful periods. And the women — most of them uneducated — say they have little choice.
Hysterectomies keep them working, undistracted by doctor visits or the hardship of menstruating in a field with no access to running water, toilets or shelter.
Removing a woman’s uterus has lasting consequences, particularly if she is younger than 40. In addition to the short-term risks of abdominal pain and blood clots, it often brings about early menopause, raising the chance of heart disease, osteoporosis and other ailments.
But for many sugar laborers, the operation has a particularly grim outcome: Borrowing against future wages plunges them further into debt, ensuring that they return to the fields next season and beyond. Workers’ rights groups and the United Nations labor agency have defined such arrangements as forced labor.
Sugar producers and buyers have known about this abusive system for years. Coca-Cola’s consultants, for example, visited the fields and sugar mills of western India and, in 2019, reported that children were cutting sugar cane and laborers were working to repay their employers. They documented this in a report for the company, complete with an interview with a 10-year-old girl.
In an unrelated corporate report that year, the company said that it was supporting a program to “gradually reduce child labor” in India.
Labor abuse is endemic in Maharashtra, according to a local government report and interviews with dozens of workers. Maharashtra sugar has been sweetening cans of Coke and Pepsi for more than a decade, according to an executive at NSL Sugars, which operates mills in the state.
PepsiCo, in response to a list of findings from the Times, confirmed that one of its largest international franchisees buys sugar from Maharashtra. The franchisee just opened its third manufacturing and bottling plant there. A new Coke factory is under construction in Maharashtra, and Coca-Cola confirmed that it, too, buys sugar in the state.
These companies use the sugar primarily for products sold in India, industry officials say. PepsiCo said the company and its partners purchase a small amount of sugar from Maharashtra, relative to the total production in the state.
Both companies have published codes of conduct prohibiting suppliers and business partners from using child and forced labor.
“The description of the working conditions of sugar-cane cutters in Maharashtra is deeply concerning,” PepsiCo said in a statement. “We will engage with our franchisee partners to conduct an assessment to understand the sugar-cane cutter working conditions and any actions that may need to be taken.”
Coca-Cola declined to comment on a detailed list of questions.
The heartland of this exploitation is the district of Beed, an impoverished, rural region of Maharashtra that is home to much of the migrant sugar-cutting population. One local government report surveyed approximately 82,000 female sugar cane workers from Beed and found that about 1 in 5 had had hysterectomies. A separate, smaller government survey estimated the figure at 1 in 3.
The abuses continue — despite local government investigations, news reports and warnings from company consultants — because everyone says somebody else is responsible.
Big Western companies have policies pledging to root out human rights abuses in their supply chains. In practice, they seldom, if ever, visit the fields and largely rely on their suppliers, the sugar mill owners, to oversee labor issues.
The mill owners, though, say that they do not actually employ the workers. They hire contractors to recruit migrants from far-off villages, transport them to the fields and pay their wages. How those workers are treated, the owners say, is between them and the contractors.
Those contractors are often young men whose only qualification is that they own a vehicle. They are merely doling out the mill owners’ money, they say. They could not possibly dictate working conditions or terms of employment.
A Push Toward Surgery
Nobody pushes women to get hysterectomies as a form of population control. In fact, having children is commonplace. Because girls typically marry young, many have children in their teens.
Instead, they seek hysterectomies in hopes of stopping their periods, as a drastic form of uterine cancer prevention or to end the need for routine gynecological care.
India is the world’s second-largest sugar producer, and Maharashtra accounts for about one-third of that production.
The abuses are born from the Maharashtra sugar industry’s peculiar setup. In other sugar regions, farm owners recruit local workers and pay them wages.
Maharashtra operates differently. About 1 million workers, typically from Beed, migrate for days to fields in the south and west. Throughout the harvest, from about October to March, they move from field to field.
Instead of wages from farm owners, they receive an advance — often around $1,800 per couple, or roughly $5 a day per person for a six-month season — from a mill contractor. This century-old system reduces labor costs for sugar mills.
In the fields, where she has spent her life cutting sugar for a mill owned by NSL Sugars, Chaure, like the others, sleeps on the ground, spends hours a day hunched over and carries loads on her head.
Tampons and pads are expensive and hard to find, and there is nowhere to dispose of them. Without access to running water, women address their periods in the fields, with reused cloth that they try to wash discreetly by hand.
The women often have familiar ailments: pain that radiates down from their lower backs and prolonged or irregular periods that make work more difficult.
“All the problems are intermingled with their personal hygiene and their economic condition. They have to work so hard,” said Dr. Ashok Belkhode, whose Maharashtra practice includes gynecology.
Hysterectomy is a routine surgery performed around the world, although infrequently for women in their 20s and 30s. In India, it is more common, including as a form of birth control, and other parts of the country also have high hysterectomy rates. But in Maharashtra’s sugar industry, everyone — contractors, other workers, even doctors — pushes women toward the surgery.
Married to and for Field Work
In her wedding photographs, Chaure stares straight-faced into the camera. She had never met the groom. But that was normal. The same had happened to many of her friends.
Like many rural women in Maharashtra, Chaure does not know her exact age but is in her 30s. She figures she was about 14 on her wedding day. It was two years after she dropped out of her village school so her parents could take her to the sugar fields.
She knew that marriage meant the end of something. She had dreamed of becoming a nurse. But marriage is the moment when many girls give up their futures, and their bodies, to sugar.
Every fall before the harvest, usually in October, the mill owners dispatch contractors to villages in Beed like Chaure’s to recruit laborers.
Child marriage is illegal in India and is regarded internationally as a human rights violation. Its roots in India run deep, and it has complex cultural and economic causes.
But in this part of Maharashtra, two economic incentives push girls into marriage.
First, sugar cutting is a two-person job. Husband-and-wife teams make twice as much as a man working alone. The two-person system is known as koyta, after the sickle that cuts the sugar cane.
Second, the longer that children accompany their parents in the field, the longer parents must support them. So families often seek to marry off daughters young, even in early adolescence.
“If we are married, their stress reduces, and the responsibility is shifted to our husband’s shoulders,” Chaure said. “So they marry us off.”
Workers said there were almost never official contracts or records tallying how much sugar cane they cut. At the end of the season, contractors almost always declare that a balance remains.
Early Warning Signs
Shubha Sekhar, a Coca-Cola executive who has focused on human rights in India, talked during the COVID pandemic to a group of university students. Speaking by videoconference, she described the challenges of operating in a country that Coke’s own documents identify as risky because of child and forced labor.
Typically, corporations buy from suppliers, she explained. With sugar, she said, at times, “one doesn’t have visibility of what is happening beyond, in deep agriculture.”
But those deep fields are typically just outside the doors of Coke’s own suppliers. Sugar cane loses weight — and value — each minute after it is cut, so mills are usually built close to the farms.
All of the problems, including child marriage and hysterectomies, have been known in the region for years.
There was even a moment, not too long ago, when things might have changed.
In 2019, the newspaper The Hindu BusinessLine reported on an unusually high number of hysterectomies among female sugar cane cutters in Maharashtra. In response, a state lawmaker, along with a team of researchers, launched an investigation. They surveyed thousands of women.
Their report that year described horrible working conditions and directly linked the high hysterectomy rate to the sugar industry. Unable to take time off during pregnancy or for doctor visits, women have no choice but to seek the surgery, the report concluded.
By happenstance, Coca-Cola issued its own report that year. After unrelated accusations out of Brazil and Cambodia about land-grabbing, Coca-Cola had hired a firm to audit its supply chain in several countries.
The auditors, from a group called Arche Advisors, visited 123 farms in Maharashtra and a neighboring state with a small sugar industry.
They found children at about half of them. Many had simply migrated with their families, but Arche’s report found children cutting, carrying and bundling sugar cane at 12 farms.
Arche noted that Coca-Cola suppliers did not provide toilets or shelter. And it cited “flags in the area of forced labor.” Only a few of the mills it surveyed had policies on bonded or child labor, and those applied only to the mills, not the farms.
The government report called on factories to provide water, toilets, basic sanitation and the minimum wage.
Few if any changes have been carried out.
Major buyers like PepsiCo and Coca-Cola say they hold their suppliers to exacting standards for labor rights. But that promise is only as good as their willingness to monitor thousands of farms at the base of their supply chains.
That rarely happens. An executive at NSL Sugars, a Coca-Cola and PepsiCo franchisee supplier that has mills around the country, said that soda company representatives could be scrupulous in asking about sugar quality, production efficiency and environmental issues. Labor issues in the fields, he said, would almost never come up.
Soda company inspectors seldom if ever visit the farms from which NSL sources its sugar cane, the executive said. The PepsiCo franchisee, Varun Beverages, did not respond to calls for comment.
Mill owners, too, rarely visit the fields. Executives at Dalmia Bharat Sugar and NSL Sugars say they keep virtually no records on their laborers.
Ed Potter, the former head of global workplace rights at Coca-Cola, said the company had conducted many human rights audits during his tenure. But with so many suppliers, oversight can seem random.
Sanjay Khatal, the managing director of a major lobbying group for sugar mills, said that mill owners could not provide any worker benefits without being seen as direct employers. That would raise costs and jeopardize the whole system.
One thing that changed after the government report was a rule intended to prevent unscrupulous doctors from profiting off unneeded surgeries.
“Some doctors have made it a way to earn more money,” said Dr. Chaitanya Kagde, a gynecologist at a government-run facility in Beed. (Although public hospitals offer hysterectomies free or at reduced cost, they are often far from rural women.)
The new rule required the civil surgeon, the district’s top health official, to approve hysterectomies.
But hysterectomies on younger women continue. Although many doctors agree that some surgeons perform them too often, they also note that patients request the surgery.
In an interview last May, Beed’s civil surgeon at the time, Suresh Sable, said the government should not second-guess doctors. He said his office still approved 90% of hysterectomy requests.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Savita Dayanand Landge stacking sugar-cane bundles. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) The New York Times mime-type= video/mp4 source= https://nytapi.wieck.com/feed/ayaCl/video/WvTzaQ0z/encode/ae66af31-1a92-4999-bd8e-a3fbbad25ec9?expires=2024-04-10T03:00:01.089143Z&signature=K0+l76yzk6KnhP7L0H3/5YFIAEY= alternate-text= Savita Dayanand Landge stacking sugar-cane bundles. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) > Savita Dayanand Landge stacking sugar-cane bundles. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) The New York Times Sugar cane fields in Pandharpur. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) The New York Times mime-type= video/mp4 source= https://nytapi.wieck.com/feed/ayaCl/video/kzTz5NEX/encode/423e613a-b101-4fbf-b52a-058fdc81084b?expires=2024-04-10T03:00:01.089216Z&signature=WifUbvfn0jsIoPNx/ZBZ09J31JY= alternate-text= Sugar cane fields in Pandharpur. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) > Sugar cane fields in Pandharpur. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) The New York Times Sugar cane fields in Pandharpur. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) The New York Times mime-type= video/mp4 source= https://nytapi.wieck.com/feed/ayaCl/video/AaT4ko5W/encode/8388aa1e-8597-4598-a8ff-fb9dd22f3c2b?expires=2024-04-10T03:00:01.089229Z&signature=MHPW75CClmp03OK/7zQsumJmStE= alternate-text= Sugar cane fields in Pandharpur. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) > Sugar cane fields in Pandharpur. (Saumya Khandelwal for The New York Times) The New York Times Coca-Cola and PepsiCo have helped turn the Indian state of Maharashtra into a sugar-producing powerhouse. But a New York Times investigation has found that these brands finance a brutal system of labor that exploits young girls and leads to the unnecessary sterilization of working-age women. The investigation was produced in collaboration with The Fuller Project. The New York Times mime-type= video/mp4 source= https://nytapi.wieck.com/feed/ayaCl/video/avT7dlgl/encode/1b3f93f5-10b3-4133-9dff-6e49257c1ae9?expires=2024-04-10T03:00:01.089242Z&signature=QS5fHXZaTRri2fbn0Q3BjVqbdek= alternate-text= Coca-Cola and PepsiCo have helped turn the Indian state of Maharashtra into a sugar-producing powerhouse. But a New York Times investigation has found that these brands finance a brutal system of labor that exploits young girls and leads to the unnecessary sterilization of working-age women. The investigation was produced in collaboration with The Fuller Project. > Coca-Cola and PepsiCo have helped turn the Indian state of Maharashtra into a sugar-producing powerhouse. But a New York Times investigation has found that these brands finance a brutal system of labor that exploits young girls and leads to the unnecessary sterilization of working-age women. The investigation was produced in collaboration with The Fuller Project. The New York Times

Subject: Weddings; Womens health; Surgery; Hysterectomy; Sugar industry; Working conditions; Franchisees; Contractors; Girls; Forced labor; Local government; Manual workers; Sugarcane; Human rights; Suppliers; Child marriage

Business indexing term: Subject: Sugar industry Working conditions Franchisees Contractors Forced labor Manual workers Suppliers

Location: New York; United States--US; India

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

Identifier / keyword: Coca Cola Company; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Layoffs And Job Reductions; World; Surgery And Surgeons; Cambodia; Agriculture And Farming; Sugar; International Trade And World Market; Careers And Professions; Rajagopalan, Megha; Youth; Men And Boys; Pepsico Inc; Teenagers And Adolescence; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Politics And Government; Hygiene And Cleanliness; Credit And Debt; United Nations; Hiring And Promotion; Finances; Weddings And Engagements; Wages And Salaries; Women And Girls; Hysterectomies; Executives And Management (Theory); Local Government; Child Labor; Brazil; Workplace Environment; Migrant Labor (Agriculture); Factories And Manufacturing; Corporate Social Responsibility; Employee Fringe Benefits; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Rural Areas; Migrant Labor (Non Agriculture); Accounting And Accountants; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Seasons And Months; India; Maharashtra (India); Children And Childhood; Bathrooms And Toilets; Government Contracts And Procurement; Archives And Records; Poverty; Child Marriages; Minimum Wage; Supply Chain; Doctors; Soft Drinks; Forced Labor; Anxiety And Stress; Beverages; Franchises; New York Times; Menstruation

Title: The Brutality of Sugar: Debt, Child Marriage and Hysterectomies

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 24, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-24T19:09:17Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2973783482

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brutality-sugar-debt-child-marriage/docview/2973783482/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trapped in the Brutality of India's Sugar Cane Fields: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam; Khandelwal, Saumya

Publication info: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam; Khandelwal, Saumya. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trapped-brutality-indias-sugar-cane-fields/docview/2973574547/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The two soft-drink makers have helped turn the state of Maharashtra into a sugar-producing powerhouse. But a New York Times and Fuller Project investigation has found that these brands have also profited from a brutal system of labor that exploits children and leads to the unnecessary sterilization of working-age women.
Young girls are pushed into illegal child marriages so they can work alongside their husbands cutting and gathering sugar cane. Instead of receiving wages, they work to pay off advances from their employers -- an arrangement that requires them to pay a fee for the privilege of missing work, even to see a doctor.
An extreme yet common consequence of this financial entrapment is hysterectomies. Labor brokers loan money for the surgeries, even to resolve ailments as routine as heavy, painful periods. And the women -- most of them uneducated -- say they have little choice.
Hysterectomies keep them working, undistracted by doctor visits or the hardship of menstruating in a field with no access to running water, toilets or shelter.
Removing a woman's uterus has lasting consequences, particularly if she is under 40. In addition to the short-term risks of abdominal pain and blood clots, it often brings about early menopause, raising the chance of heart disease, osteoporosis and other ailments.
But for many sugar laborers, the operation has a particularly grim outcome: Borrowing against future wages plunges them further into debt, ensuring that they return to the fields next season and beyond. Workers' rights groups and the United Nations labor agency have defined such arrangements as forced labor.
"I had to rush to work immediately after the operation, as we had taken an advance," Ms. Chaure said. "We neglect our health in front of money."
Sugar producers and buyers have known about this abusive system for years. Coca-Cola's consultants, for example, visited the fields and sugar mills of western India and, in 2019, reported that children were cutting sugar cane and laborers were working to repay their employers. They documented this in a report for the company, complete with an interview with a 10-year-old girl.
In an unrelated corporate report that year, the company said that it was supporting a program to "gradually reduce child labor" in India.
Labor abuse is endemic in Maharashtra, not limited to any particular mill or farm, according to a local government report and interviews with dozens of workers. Maharashtra sugar has been sweetening cans of Coke and Pepsi for more than a decade, according to an executive at NSL Sugars, which operates mills in the state.
PepsiCo, in response to a list of findings from The Times, confirmed that one of its largest international franchisees buys sugar from Maharashtra. The franchisee just opened its third manufacturing and bottling plant there. A new Coke factory is under construction in Maharashtra, and Coca-Cola confirmed that it, too, buys sugar in the state. These companies use the sugar primarily for products sold in India, industry officials say.
Both companies have published codes of conduct prohibiting suppliers and business partners from using child and forced labor.
"The description of the working conditions of sugar-cane cutters in Maharashtra is deeply concerning," PepsiCo said in a statement. "We will engage with our franchisee partners to conduct an assessment to understand the sugar-cane cutter working conditions and any actions that may need to be taken."
Coca-Cola declined to comment on a detailed list of questions.
The heartland of this exploitation is the district of Beed, an impoverished, rural region of Maharashtra that is home to much of the migrant sugar-cutting population. One local government report surveyed approximately 82,000 female sugar-cane workers from Beed, and found that about one in five had had hysterectomies. A separate, smaller government survey estimated the figure at one in three.
"The thinking of women is, if we get the surgery, then we'll be able to work more," said Deepa Mudhol-Munde, the district's magistrate, or top civil servant.
The abuses continue -- despite local government investigations, news reports and warnings from company consultants -- because everyone says somebody else is responsible.
Big Western companies have policies pledging to root out human rights abuses in their supply chains. In practice, they seldom if ever visit the fields and largely rely on their suppliers, the sugar-mill owners, to oversee labor issues.
The mill owners, though, say that they do not actually employ the workers. They hire contractors to recruit migrants from far-off villages, transport them to the fields and pay their wages. How those workers are treated, the owners say, is between them and the contractors.
Those contractors are often young men whose only qualification is that they own a vehicle. They are merely doling out the mill owners' money, they say. They could not possibly dictate working conditions or terms of employment.
Nobody pushes women to get hysterectomies as a form of population control. In fact, having children is commonplace. Because girls typically marry young, many have children in their teens.
Instead, they seek hysterectomies in hopes of stopping their periods, as a drastic form of uterine cancer prevention or to end the need for routine gynecological care.
"I couldn't afford to miss work to see the doctor," said Savita Dayanand Landge, a sugar-cane worker in her 30s who got a hysterectomy last year because she hoped it would end her need to visit doctors.
India is the world's second largest sugar producer, and Maharashtra accounts for about a third of that production. In addition to supplying major Western companies, the state has exported sugar to more than a dozen countries, where it disappeared into the global supply chain.
The abuses are born from the Maharashtra sugar industry's peculiar setup. In other sugar regions, farm owners recruit local workers and pay them wages.
Maharashtra operates differently. About a million workers, typically from Beed, migrate for days to fields in the south and west. Throughout the harvest, from about October to March, they move from field to field, carting their belongings with them.
Instead of wages from farm owners, they receive an advance -- often around $ 1,800 per couple, or roughly $ 5 a day per person for a six-month season -- from a mill contractor. This century-old system reduces labor costs for sugar mills.
Our reporters interviewed people at every stage of the supply chain, including dozens of laborers, contractors, mill owners and former executives at multinational companies. The Times also examined medical records and interviewed doctors, lawmakers, government officials, researchers and aid workers who have spent careers examining the livelihoods of Maharashtra's sugar workers.
Ms. Chaure is petite, barely five feet tall, with a tiny gold nose-ring in the shape of a flower and a grin that takes over her whole face. She speaks a million miles an hour and, when she feels particularly passionate, she grabs your wrist to make sure you are listening.
"It's easy for people to take advantage of us," she said, "because we have no education." She has spent her life cutting sugar for a mill owned by NSL Sugars.
She began working in the sugar fields as a preteen and, now in her early 30s, she expects to continue for the rest of her life. The work has kept her family in the most grueling poverty, the kind that makes her skip meals so her three children have enough to eat.
Ms. Chaure knows there is nothing for her beyond sugar. But she hopes things will be different for her children.
'There Wasn't Any Option Left'
Ms. Chaure laid back on an operating-room cot last winter preparing for her hysterectomy. The hospital was bigger than any near her village, with clean floors and a busy, professional-looking staff.
As she looked at the white ceiling, the thought crossed her mind that, once she slipped out of consciousness, she might not come back.
Her hands trembled.
Who, she wondered, would look after her children?
"But since there wasn't any option left for me," she said, "I did it."
Ms. Chaure had traveled to a city hospital hours from her village.
On a given day, the waiting room is crowded with patients from the countryside sitting nervously on metal chairs or cross-legged on the floor as a loudspeaker blares out names.
The women often have familiar ailments: pain that radiates down from their lower backs and prolonged or irregular periods that make work more difficult.
For Ms. Chaure, it was a heavy kind of ache, like a pull. She had pain in her hip, too. It pulsed down her leg and never seemed to go away. Her periods were irregular, which she suspected was from working all through her pregnancies, often forgoing food.
In the fields, Ms. Chaure, like the others, sleeps on the ground, spends hours a day hunched over and carries heavy loads on her head.
Tampons and pads are expensive and hard to find, and there is nowhere to dispose of them. Without access to running water, women address their periods in the fields, with reused cloth that they try to wash discreetly by hand.
"All the problems are intermingled with their personal hygiene and their economic condition. They have to work so hard," said Dr. Ashok Belkhode, whose Maharashtra practice includes gynecology.
Hysterectomy is a routine surgery performed around the world, though infrequently for women in their 20s and 30s. In India, it is more common, including as a form of birth control, and other parts of the country also have high hysterectomy rates. But in Maharashtra's sugar industry, everyone -- contractors, other workers, even doctors -- pushes women toward the surgery.
That is what happened to Ms. Landge, a mother of four with a red bindi and arms full of green bangles. She lives in a tiny concrete home atop a hill, overlooking her village and acres of farmland that turns the color of mustard seeds during the dry months.
Doctors prescribed painkillers and vitamins for her back and abdominal pain, but every appointment cost her a day's wages and a fee for missing work.
"Everywhere I went," Ms. Landge said, "hysterectomy was suggested."
Ms. Chaure ended up on the operating table because a sonogram showed that she had ovarian cysts, her medical records show.
Instead of simply removing the cysts, her surgeon told her she should have a hysterectomy. She did not question the advice. She knew so many women who had done the same. She was terrified of getting cancer. And maybe this would end her pain, and the doctor visits.
"I might not be able to work well if the problems persist," she said.
Years earlier, to pay one of her children's medical bills, Ms. Chaure had sold a pair of gold earrings, a gift from her father worth about $ 30. Now there was nothing left to sell.
So she and her husband borrowed more money from their sugar contractor, promising to return next season to repay it. They already owed so much, Ms. Chaure figured, that they would have to go anyway.
The surgeon removed Ms. Chaure's uterus, a cyst, an ovary and a fallopian tube. In an interview, her surgeon said it was necessary because the cyst was unusually large.
The Times shared details from Ms. Chaure's file with Dr. Farinaz Seifi, the director of gynecology at Bridgeport Hospital and a professor at the Yale School of Medicine. "There was absolutely no indication for hysterectomy," she said.
'I Was Very Young'
In her wedding photographs, Ms. Chaure stares straight-faced into the camera. She had never met the groom. But that was normal. The same had happened to many of her friends.
Like many rural women in Maharashtra, Ms. Chaure does not know her exact age. She figures she was about 14 on her wedding day. It was two years after she dropped out of her village school so her parents could take her to the sugar fields.
"I was scared to get married," she recalled, "really scared."
She knew that marriage meant the end of something. She had dreamed of becoming a nurse. She could picture it -- she would wear a crisp, clean uniform and work beneath a whirring ceiling fan, protected from the sun.
But marriage is the moment when many girls give up their futures, and their bodies, to sugar.
Every fall before the harvest, usually in October, the mill owners dispatch contractors to villages in Beed like Ms. Chaure's to recruit laborers.
Child marriage is illegal in India and is regarded internationally as a human rights violation. Its roots in India run deep, and it has complex cultural and economic causes.
But in this part of Maharashtra, two economic incentives push girls into marriage.
First, sugar cutting is a two-person job. Husband-and-wife teams make twice as much as a man working alone. The two-person system is known as koyta, after the sickle that cuts the sugar cane.
Second, the longer that children accompany their parents in the field, the longer parents must support them. So families often seek to marry off daughters young, even in early adolescence.
"If we are married, their stress reduces and the responsibility is shifted to our husband's shoulders," Ms. Chaure said. "So they marry us off."
Several women recalled being married only months after their first periods.
The links between marriage and sugar go so deep that girls were once married at the mill gates. Even now, weddings are often held before the harvest and the term "gate cane wedding" still comes up.
"Without koyta, there would be no reason to get married," said Zhamabai Subhashratod, a 30-something sugar laborer who was married in her early teens and later had a hysterectomy.
Contractors, too, have an incentive to find brides, even if it means pressuring parents to marry off young daughters, said Tatwashil Baburao Kamble, the former head of Beed's child-welfare committee.
"I've seen cases where the contractors tried to get it done before taking laborers to the farm -- all their belongings were packed," Mr. Kamble said. "All that was left was to get married."
Some contractors even lend money for weddings.
"I've paid for weddings, for hospital bills," said Bapurao Balbhim Shelke, a contractor who formerly worked for Dalmia Bharat Sugar.
"I just add the amount to the next year's bill, and they can work it off," said Dattu Ashruba Yadav, a contractor who lives in Beed. He said he had lent one couple 50,000 rupees, or about $ 600, for their wedding. That represents several months of a typical couple's earnings.
Mira Govardhan Bhole has been working in the sugar fields since her marriage, about a year after her first period. Ms. Bhole is in her 30s but has a round baby face that always looks cheerful.
As a newlywed, she would disappear into cooking to avoid her husband.
When he told her she would have to cut sugar, she sobbed uncontrollably. "They brought me by throwing me in the vehicle," she said. "I hadn't even taken a bath or anything."
In the field, she felt overwhelmed. There, sugar cane surrounds you, the stalks growing so high and close together that you can make out the sky only in patches.
The men bend forward, whipping machetes. The women usually do the rest.
First, they tear the sharp leaves off the cane. It takes practice. Pull downward and you will be fine, but stroke upward, even by accident, and the leaves make gashes as thin as paper cuts.
What Ms. Bhole remembers most about her first weeks is that her palms hurt so badly that she cried and cried.
After stripping the leaves, the women stack the cane in bundles.
They carry the bundles on their heads, then load them onto trucks.
Season after season, the weight can break down the disks in your neck, leaving a constant stiffness. If you ask doctors in the region what happens to the bodies of women in the sugar fields, this is the first injury they mention. Ms. Chaure has this problem, too, and she winces when she thinks about it.
More relentless, though, is the punishment of field life. The workday often ends after midnight, when trucks have hauled away the last of the day's crop. Women sleep under tarpaulin tents with their families on thin mats cast onto the ground.
They wake as early as 4 a.m. to fetch water, build a fire, boil tea and cook lentils and vegetables. They wash clothes in a basin and then it is back to work, stripping and hauling sugar cane.
Workers said there were almost never official contracts or records tallying how much they cut. At the end of the season, contractors almost always declare that a balance remains.
"There is no possible way they could pay it back within one season," said Ranjit Bhausaheb Waghmare, a contractor for Dalmia Bharat Sugar.
Dalmia supplies Coca-Cola in Maharashtra, according to S. Rangaprasad, who runs one of the mills there. Dalmia records also list Mondelez, the owner of Cadbury, as a customer. The company said it was "deeply concerned to hear allegations of labor issues at one of our suppliers. We will investigate."
Pepsi's franchisee also buys from Dalmia, but from mills outside the state, PepsiCo said.
Ms. Bhole sometimes fantasizes about a different life. A relative in a city a few hours away works as a housekeeper. The idea of getting paid to do chores sounds incredible.
But she says that no matter how hard she and her husband work, at the end of each season, her contractor says they still owe money. They have to return.
Worker-rights advocates say this is tantamount to bonded labor, a practice banned by law.
When Ms. Chaure's husband took her to the fields after their wedding, she hoped they would be done in a season. That was more than 15 years ago. They are still in debt.
"We take an advance, repay some, and again take another advance," she said.
The sugar mills keep all of this -- child marriage, underage labor, wage debt and working conditions -- at an arm's length. Child marriage, they say, is a social problem that has nothing to do with the industry.
They say the contractors are responsible for the workers.
"The mill does not take on the burden of employing them," said Mr. Rangaprasad, the head of a Dalmia mill.
Things Could Have Changed
Shubha Sekhar, a Coca-Cola executive who has focused on human rights in India, talked during the Covid pandemic to a group of university students. Speaking by videoconference, she described the challenges of operating in a country that Coke's own documents identify as risky because of child and forced labor.
Typically, corporations buy from suppliers, she explained. With sugar, she said, at times "one doesn't have visibility of what is happening beyond, in deep agriculture."
But those deep fields are typically just outside the doors of Coke's own suppliers. Sugar cane loses weight -- and value -- each minute after it is cut, so mills are usually built close to the farms.
All of the problems, including child marriage and hysterectomies, have been known in the region for years.
There was even a moment, not too long ago, when things might have changed.
In 2019, the newspaper The Hindu BusinessLine reported on an unusually high number of hysterectomies among female sugar-cane cutters in Maharashtra. In response, a state lawmaker, along with a team of researchers, launched an investigation. They surveyed thousands of women.
Their report that year described horrible working conditions and directly linked the high hysterectomy rate to the sugar industry. Unable to take time off during pregnancy or for doctor visits, women have no choice but to seek the surgery, the report concluded.
By happenstance, Coca-Cola issued its own report that year. After unrelated accusations out of Brazil and Cambodia about land-grabbing, Coca-Cola had hired a firm to audit its supply chain in several countries.
The auditors, from a group called Arche Advisors, visited 123 farms in Maharashtra and a neighboring state with a small sugar industry.
They found children at about half of them. Many had simply migrated with their families, but Arche's report found children cutting, carrying and bundling sugar cane at 12 farms.
Nearly every laborer interviewed by reporters said children commonly worked in the sugar fields. The youngest ones do chores. Older ones perform all the work of cane cutters. A Times photographer saw children working in the fields.
The 2019 report includes an interview with a 10-year-old girl who "loves to go to school," but instead works alongside her parents.
"She picks the cut cane and stacks it into a bundle, which her parents then load onto the truck," the report says.
Arche noted that Coca-Cola suppliers did not provide toilets or shelter. And it cited "flags in the area of forced labor." Only a few of the mills it surveyed had policies on bonded or child labor, and those applied only to the mills, not the farms.
The government report called on factories to provide water, toilets, basic sanitation and the minimum wage.
Few if any changes have been carried out.
Major buyers like PepsiCo and Coca-Cola say they hold their suppliers to exacting standards for labor rights. But that promise is only as good as their willingness to monitor thousands of farms at the base of their supply chains.
That rarely happens. An executive at NSL Sugars, a Coca-Cola and PepsiCo franchisee supplier that has mills around the country, said that soda-company representatives could be scrupulous in asking about sugar quality, production efficiency and environmental issues. Labor issues in the fields, he said, would almost never come up.
Soda-company inspectors seldom if ever visit the farms from which NSL sources its sugar cane, the executive said. The PepsiCo franchisee, Varun Beverages, did not respond to calls for comment.
Mill owners, too, rarely visit the fields. Executives at Dalmia and NSL Sugars say they keep virtually no records on their laborers.
"No one from the Dalmia factory has ever visited us in the tents or the fields," said Anita Bhaisahab Waghmare, a laborer in her 40s who has worked at farms supplying Dalmia all her life and said she had a hysterectomy that she now regretted.
Ed Potter, the former head of global workplace rights at Coca-Cola, said the company had conducted many human rights audits during his tenure. But with so many suppliers, oversight can seem random.
"Imagine your hands going through some sand," he said. "What you deal with is what sticks to your fingers. Most sand doesn't stick to your fingers. But sometimes you get lucky."
Sanjay Khatal, the managing director of a major lobbying group for sugar mills, said that mill owners could not provide any worker benefits without being seen as direct employers. That would raise costs and jeopardize the whole system.
"It is the very existence of the industry which can come into question," he said.
One thing that changed after the government report was a rule intended to prevent unscrupulous doctors from profiting off unneeded surgeries.
"Some doctors have made it a way to earn more money," said Dr. Chaitanya Kagde, a gynecologist at a government-run facility in Beed. (Though public hospitals offer hysterectomies free or at reduced cost, they are often far from rural women.)
The new rule required the civil surgeon, the district's top health official, to approve hysterectomies.
But hysterectomies on younger women continue. Though many doctors agree that some surgeons perform them too often, they also note that patients request the surgery.
In an interview last May, Beed's civil surgeon at the time, Suresh Sable, said the government should not second-guess doctors. "It's not necessary to question their authority," he said.
He said his office still approved 90 percent of hysterectomy requests.
Trapped
One day last May, a few months after the harvest, Ms. Chaure and her husband made their way to the plot of land they farm near their home. It was 104 degrees. There was almost no shade or breeze and the air was so hot it took the shape of waves in the distance.
Her son, Aditya, was at the age where he was putting everything in his mouth -- the back of a sticker, a Good Day biscuit, a pink toy watch. He was so preoccupied that he seemed to have forgotten to fuss.
Ms. Chaure, wearing a light floral sari, scooped him in one arm and hiked down the field.
It had been about six months since her hysterectomy and Ms. Chaure's body hurt worse than usual.
Everything ached, especially her midsection. She was fed up with doctors and the work that had done this to her.
For the first time since being a teenager, she did not know whether she could migrate to cut sugar cane that season.
But the idea of borrowing more money without working to repay it terrified her.
She already stretched the family budget paper thin -- growing tomatoes and peppers in a patch behind their home of concrete and corrugated metal.
"We have wasted our whole lives in this work," she said.
By September, with the harvest looming, she still did not know if she could work. The contractor, she said, had been hassling her and her husband to take a bigger advance.
"It makes me so mad when those people say, 'Nobody forced you to be a laborer,"' she said. She was washing her family's clothes in a plastic bowl, slapping each garment against a rock. "Nobody chooses this life."
It had been an exhausting few days. All three of her children had been coughing. The day before, she and her husband had fought, and he had hurled a basket of fresh cotton that she had just picked to the ground, covering it with mud. It could not be sold.
Finally, her husband left for the fields, to work alone. She stayed behind, resigned to the fact that it would push her family even deeper into poverty.
She worries about her children. She still harbors hopes for Aditya and his two big sisters, who are about 8 and 5 years old.
But Priyanka, the oldest, drove her crazy, skipping school to horse around with her younger siblings. Ms. Chaure remembers missing school herself, then dropping out. She remembers her dreams of being a nurse.
She wants things to be different for her daughter.
"I want her to be someone," she said. "Do something in life."
But for all her optimism, Ms. Chaure knows how tough it will be for her children, and how things are likely to go.
"They don't like it," she said. "But they need to get used to this life."
This article was reported in collaboration with The Fuller Project, a journalism nonprofit that reports on global issues affecting women. Ankur Tangade contributed reporting. Produced by Nico Chilla.
This article was reported in collaboration with The Fuller Project, a journalism nonprofit that reports on global issues affecting women. Ankur Tangade contributed reporting. Produced by Nico Chilla.
Workers in Beed, India, near NSL Sugars, which is a Coca-Cola and PepsiCo franchisee supplier that has mills around the country. (A1); Since her hysterectomy, Ms. Chaure has not been able to work without pain. Like many rural women in Maharashtra, she does not know her age. Ms. Chaure figures she was about 14 on her wedding day. Above, the NSL Sugars plant in Beed, India. (A12); Inside the sugar mill in the Satara district in Western India. From about October to March each year, the mills work nonstop. At left, a mother of a child bride leaving a counseling session in Beed. At right, Ranjit Bhausaheb Waghmare, a contractor. (A13); Top, a temporary settlement outside the Loknete Sugars factory in Mohol in December. Clockwise from above left, sugar cane fields in Pandharpur; a child sleeping at a sugar cane field in the Solapur district where young children do chores and older ones cut cane; Ms. Chaure walking home after tending to her family's patch of land in Kawadgaon, a village in the Beed district. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAUMYA KHANDELWAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) This article appeared in print on page A1, A12, A13, A14.

Subject: Sugar; Hysterectomy; Working conditions; Franchisees; Contractors; Supply chains; Forced labor; Children & youth; Local government; Manual workers; Sugarcane; Suppliers

Business indexing term: Subject: Working conditions Franchisees Contractors Supply chains Forced labor Manual workers Su ppliers

Location: India

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/24/world/europe/india-sugar-cane-fields-child-labor-hysterectomies.html

Title: Trapped in the Brutality of India's Sugar Cane Fields:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 24, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2973574547

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trapped-brutality-indias-sugar-cane-fields/docview/2973574547/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 24, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-24

Database: Global Newsstre am Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Brutality of Sugar: Debt, Child Marriage and Hysterectomies

Author: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam

Publication info: Rajagopalan, Megha; Qadri Inzamam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brutality-sugar-debt-child-marriage/docview/2973531084/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
BEED, India — Archana Ashok Chaure has given her life to sugar.
She was married off to a sugar cane laborer in western India at about 14 — “too young,” she said, “to have any idea what marriage was.” Debt to her employer keeps her in the fields.
Last winter, she did what thousands of women here are pressured to do when faced with painful periods or routine ailments: She got a hysterectomy and got back to work.
This keeps sugar flowing to companies like Coke and Pepsi.
The two soft drink makers have helped turn the state of Maharashtra into a sugar-producing powerhouse. But a New York Times and Fuller Project investigation has found that these brands have also profited from a brutal system of labor that exploits children and leads to the unnecessary sterilization of working-age women.
Our reporters interviewed people at every stage of the supply chain, including dozens of laborers, contractors, mill owners and former executives at multinational companies. The Times also examined medical records and interviewed doctors, lawmakers, government officials, researchers and aid workers who have spent careers examining the livelihoods of Maharashtra’s sugar workers.
Young girls are pushed into illegal child marriages so they can work alongside their husbands cutting and gathering sugar cane. Instead of receiving wages, they work to pay off advances from their employers — an arrangement that requires them to pay a fee for the privilege of missing work, even to see a doctor.
An extreme yet common consequence of this financial entrapment is hysterectomies. Labor brokers loan money for the surgeries, even to resolve ailments as routine as heavy, painful periods. And the women — most of them uneducated — say they have little choice.
Hysterectomies keep them working, undistracted by doctor visits or the hardship of menstruating in a field with no access to running water, toilets or shelter.
Removing a woman’s uterus has lasting consequences, particularly if she is younger than 40. In addition to the short-term risks of abdominal pain and blood clots, it often brings about early menopause, raising the chance of heart disease, osteoporosis and other ailments.
But for many sugar laborers, the operation has a particularly grim outcome: Borrowing against future wages plunges them further into debt, ensuring that they return to the fields next season and beyond. Workers’ rights groups and the United Nations labor agency have defined such arrangements as forced labor.
Sugar producers and buyers have known about this abusive system for years. Coca-Cola’s consultants, for example, visited the fields and sugar mills of western India and, in 2019, reported that children were cutting sugar cane and laborers were working to repay their employers. They documented this in a report for the company, complete with an interview with a 10-year-old girl.
In an unrelated corporate report that year, the company said that it was supporting a program to “gradually reduce child labor” in India.
Labor abuse is endemic in Maharashtra, according to a local government report and interviews with dozens of workers. Maharashtra sugar has been sweetening cans of Coke and Pepsi for more than a decade, according to an executive at NSL Sugars, which operates mills in the state.
PepsiCo, in response to a list of findings from the Times, confirmed that one of its largest international franchisees buys sugar from Maharashtra. The franchisee just opened its third manufacturing and bottling plant there. A new Coke factory is under construction in Maharashtra, and Coca-Cola confirmed that it, too, buys sugar in the state. These companies use the sugar primarily for products sold in India, industry officials say.
Both companies have published codes of conduct prohibiting suppliers and business partners from using child and forced labor.
“The description of the working conditions of sugar-cane cutters in Maharashtra is deeply concerning,” PepsiCo said in a statement. “We will engage with our franchisee partners to conduct an assessment to understand the sugar-cane cutter working conditions and any actions that may need to be taken.”
Coca-Cola declined to comment on a detailed list of questions.
The heartland of this exploitation is the district of Beed, an impoverished, rural region of Maharashtra that is home to much of the migrant sugar-cutting population. One local government report surveyed approximately 82,000 female sugar cane workers from Beed and found that about 1 in 5 had had hysterectomies. A separate, smaller government survey estimated the figure at 1 in 3.
The abuses continue — despite local government investigations, news reports and warnings from company consultants — because everyone says somebody else is responsible.
Big Western companies have policies pledging to root out human rights abuses in their supply chains. In practice, they seldom, if ever, visit the fields and largely rely on their suppliers, the sugar mill owners, to oversee labor issues.
The mill owners, though, say that they do not actually employ the workers. They hire contractors to recruit migrants from far-off villages, transport them to the fields and pay their wages. How those workers are treated, the owners say, is between them and the contractors.
Those contractors are often young men whose only qualification is that they own a vehicle. They are merely doling out the mill owners’ money, they say. They could not possibly dictate working conditions or terms of employment.
A Push Toward Surgery
Nobody pushes women to get hysterectomies as a form of population control. In fact, having children is commonplace. Because girls typically marry young, many have children in their teens.
Instead, they seek hysterectomies in hopes of stopping their periods, as a drastic form of uterine cancer prevention or to end the need for routine gynecological care.
India is the world’s second-largest sugar producer, and Maharashtra accounts for about one-third of that production.
The abuses are born from the Maharashtra sugar industry’s peculiar setup. In other sugar regions, farm owners recruit local workers and pay them wages.
Maharashtra operates differently. About 1 million workers, typically from Beed, migrate for days to fields in the south and west. Throughout the harvest, from about October to March, they move from field to field.
Instead of wages from farm owners, they receive an advance — often around $1,800 per couple, or roughly $5 a day per person for a six-month season — from a mill contractor. This century-old system reduces labor costs for sugar mills.
In the fields, where she has spent her life cutting sugar for a mill owned by NSL Sugars, Chaure, like the others, sleeps on the ground, spends hours a day hunched over and carries loads on her head.
Tampons and pads are expensive and hard to find, and there is nowhere to dispose of them. Without access to running water, women address their periods in the fields, with reused cloth that they try to wash discreetly by hand.
The women often have familiar ailments: pain that radiates down from their lower backs and prolonged or irregular periods that make work more difficult.
“All the problems are intermingled with their personal hygiene and their economic condition. They have to work so hard,” said Dr. Ashok Belkhode, whose Maharashtra practice includes gynecology.
Hysterectomy is a routine surgery performed around the world, although infrequently for women in their 20s and 30s. In India, it is more common, including as a form of birth control, and other parts of the country also have high hysterectomy rates. But in Maharashtra’s sugar industry, everyone — contractors, other workers, even doctors — pushes women toward the surgery.
Married to and for Field Work
In her wedding photographs, Chaure stares straight-faced into the camera. She had never met the groom. But that was normal. The same had happened to many of her friends.
Like many rural women in Maharashtra, Chaure does not know her exact age but is in her 30s. She figures she was about 14 on her wedding day. It was two years after she dropped out of her village school so her parents could take her to the sugar fields.
She knew that marriage meant the end of something. She had dreamed of becoming a nurse. But marriage is the moment when many girls give up their futures, and their bodies, to sugar.
Every fall before the harvest, usually in October, the mill owners dispatch contractors to villages in Beed like Chaure’s to recruit laborers.
Child marriage is illegal in India and is regarded internationally as a human rights violation. Its roots in India run deep, and it has complex cultural and economic causes.
But in this part of Maharashtra, two economic incentives push girls into marriage.
First, sugar cutting is a two-person job. Husband-and-wife teams make twice as much as a man working alone. The two-person system is known as koyta, after the sickle that cuts the sugar cane.
Second, the longer that children accompany their parents in the field, the longer parents must support them. So families often seek to marry off daughters young, even in early adolescence.
“If we are married, their stress reduces, and the responsibility is shifted to our husband’s shoulders,” Chaure said. “So they marry us off.”
Workers said there were almost never official contracts or records tallying how much sugar cane they cut. At the end of the season, contractors almost always declare that a balance remains.
Early Warning Signs
Shubha Sekhar, a Coca-Cola executive who has focused on human rights in India, talked during the COVID pandemic to a group of university students. Speaking by videoconference, she described the challenges of operating in a country that Coke’s own documents identify as risky because of child and forced labor.
Typically, corporations buy from suppliers, she explained. With sugar, she said, at times, “one doesn’t have visibility of what is happening beyond, in deep agriculture.”
But those deep fields are typically just outside the doors of Coke’s own suppliers. Sugar cane loses weight — and value — each minute after it is cut, so mills are usually built close to the farms.
All of the problems, including child marriage and hysterectomies, have been known in the region for years.
There was even a moment, not too long ago, when things might have changed.
In 2019, the newspaper The Hindu BusinessLine reported on an unusually high number of hysterectomies among female sugar cane cutters in Maharashtra. In response, a state lawmaker, along with a team of researchers, launched an investigation. They surveyed thousands of women.
Their report that year described horrible working conditions and directly linked the high hysterectomy rate to the sugar industry. Unable to take time off during pregnancy or for doctor visits, women have no choice but to seek the surgery, the report concluded.
By happenstance, Coca-Cola issued its own report that year. After unrelated accusations out of Brazil and Cambodia about land-grabbing, Coca-Cola had hired a firm to audit its supply chain in several countries.
The auditors, from a group called Arche Advisors, visited 123 farms in Maharashtra and a neighboring state with a small sugar industry.
They found children at about half of them. Many had simply migrated with their families, but Arche’s report found children cutting, carrying and bundling sugar cane at 12 farms.
Arche noted that Coca-Cola suppliers did not provide toilets or shelter. And it cited “flags in the area of forced labor.” Only a few of the mills it surveyed had policies on bonded or child labor, and those applied only to the mills, not the farms.
The government report called on factories to provide water, toilets, basic sanitation and the minimum wage.
Few if any changes have been carried out.
Major buyers like PepsiCo and Coca-Cola say they hold their suppliers to exacting standards for labor rights. But that promise is only as good as their willingness to monitor thousands of farms at the base of their supply chains.
That rarely happens. An executive at NSL Sugars, a Coca-Cola and PepsiCo franchisee supplier that has mills around the country, said that soda company representatives could be scrupulous in asking about sugar quality, production efficiency and environmental issues. Labor issues in the fields, he said, would almost never come up.
Soda company inspectors seldom if ever visit the farms from which NSL sources its sugar cane, the executive said. The PepsiCo franchisee, Varun Beverages, did not respond to calls for comment.
Mill owners, too, rarely visit the fields. Executives at Dalmia Bharat Sugar and NSL Sugars say they keep virtually no records on their laborers.
Ed Potter, the former head of global workplace rights at Coca-Cola, said the company had conducted many human rights audits during his tenure. But with so many suppliers, oversight can seem random.
Sanjay Khatal, the managing director of a major lobbying group for sugar mills, said that mill owners could not provide any worker benefits without being seen as direct employers. That would raise costs and jeopardize the whole system.
One thing that changed after the government report was a rule intended to prevent unscrupulous doctors from profiting off unneeded surgeries.
“Some doctors have made it a way to earn more money,” said Dr. Chaitanya Kagde, a gynecologist at a government-run facility in Beed. (Although public hospitals offer hysterectomies free or at reduced cost, they are often far from rural women.)
The new rule required the civil surgeon, the district’s top health official, to approve hysterectomies.
But hysterectomies on younger women continue. Although many doctors agree that some surgeons perform them too often, they also note that patients request the surgery.
In an interview last May, Beed’s civil surgeon at the time, Suresh Sable, said the government should not second-guess doctors. He said his office still approved 90% of hysterectomy requests.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Weddings; Womens health; Surgery; Hysterectomy; Sugar industry; Working conditions; Franchisees; Contractors; Girls; Forced labor; Local government; Manual workers; Sugarcane; Human rights; Suppliers; Child marriage

Business indexing term: Subject: Sugar industry Working conditions Franchisees Contractors Forced labor Manual workers Suppliers

Location: New York; United States--US; India

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

Identifier / keyword: Coca Cola Company; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Layoffs And Job Reductions; World; Surgery And Surgeons; Cambodia; Agriculture And Farming; Sugar; International Trade And World Market; Careers And Professions; Rajagopalan, Megha; Youth; Men And Boys; Pepsico Inc; Teenagers And Adolescence; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Politics And Government; Hygiene And Cleanliness; Credit And Debt; United Nations; Hiring And Promotion; Finances; Weddings And Engagements; Wages And Salaries; Women And Girls; Hysterectomies; Executives And Management (Theory); Local Government; Child Labor; Brazil; Workplace Environment; Migrant Labor (Agriculture); Factories And Manufacturing; Corporate Social Responsibility; Employee Fringe Benefits; Newspapers; Real Estate (Commercial); Rural Areas; Migrant Labor (Non Agriculture); Accounting And Accountants; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Labor And Jobs; Seasons And Months; India; Maharashtra (India); Children And Childhood; Bathrooms And Toilets; Government Contracts And Procurement; Archives And Records; Poverty; Child Marriages; Minimum Wage; Supply Chain; Doctors; Soft Drinks; Forced Labor; Anxiety And Stress; Beverages; Franchises; New York Times; Menstruation

Title: The Brutality of Sugar: Debt, Child Marriage and Hysterectomies

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 23, 2024

Dateline: 2024-03-23T21:00:52Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2973531084

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brutality-sugar-debt-child-marriage/docview/2973531084/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 23, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Key Stops: [Travel Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/key-stops/docview/2957630829/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Key
stops
Calle Palma is a downtown street of historic residences with striking fin de siècle façades.
Óga, meaning "home" in the Indigenous Guaraní language, is a restaurant pioneering a novel Paraguayan cuisine that pays homage to the country's gastronomic traditions.
ChacaTours takes visitors down the winding staircases and colorful alleyways of the much-misunderstood Chacarita neighborhood.
POpore is a new gallery that spotlights Paraguay's vibrant Indigenous and popular art.
Where
to Eat
La Chispa, a pop-up cultural space, lights up a dilapidated block with live music and strident political theater on weekends.
Contacto Café Social Club serves iced concoctions of blood-orange syrup, tonic and espresso in a small-but-friendly coffee shop.
Garage Sónico, a relaxed cocktail club in the owners' home, plays bossa nova while you sip highballs made with native fruit infusions.
Café Consulado does tasty lunches and sandwiches in a hip downtown location.
Karu, a cafe with a verdant patio, tops brownies with swirls of passionfruit mousse in the trendy Las Mercedes neighborhood.
Casa Clari, a cafe-bar in a colonial building, lets you peer into the presidential palace across the street.
Pakuri, a restaurant built from upcycled shipping containers, does Paraguayan dishes with a Peruvian twist, pairing them with fine Argentine wines.
Club Condesa pumps out electronica for the in-crowd until well past sunrise and has an in-house music store, Pampanam, selling rare vinyls of Brazilian samba alongside records by up-and-coming Paraguayan artists.
Bolsi, a restaurant in the city center, doles out empanadas and other parcels of fried goodness to the peckish and hungover.
Don Oscar provides no-frills barbecue and bright-orange hot sauce in repurposed Pepsi bottles.
Negroni Rooftop serves cocktails and sushi from a privileged perch among the shopping malls and skyscrapers of the new Asunción.
Shopping del Pescado, a cheap and cheerful family restaurant, grills fresh fish on a concrete boardwalk above the river.
Where
to stay
Palmaroga Hotel, which opened in 2019, has 107 rooms soaring above a restored atrium. The terrace offers panoramic views, and the adjoining restaurant, La María Cocina y Carbón, serves prime Paraguayan steak. Rooms start at 520,000 guaraníes, or about $ 71.
Gran Hotel del Paraguay boasts colonnaded courtyards filled with banana, calabash and palm trees, a chandelier-lit ballroom with frescoes creeping up the warped wooden ceilings and a generous-size pool frequented by miniature emerald hummingbirds. Rooms start at 350,000 guaraníes.
Nómada is a hostel close to the main sights and cheap lunch options. Shared dorms (from 80,000 guaraníes per bunk) face a convivial dining area and garden with hammocks. It only takes cash.
Short-term rentals are plentiful and relatively cheap. Most cluster near the Villa Morra district, close to high-end stores and nightlife. Apartments with sweeping views of the river can be found in the old center, where it's safest to use Ubers after dark.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page C10.

Location: Paraguay

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/08/travel/16hours-asuncion-box.html

Title: Key Stops:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.10

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 16, 2024

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2957630829

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/key-stops/docview/2957630829/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

She's Subtly Dressing Hollywood's Cool Girls: [Style Desk]

Author: Barnard, Christopher

Publication info: Barnard, Christopher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shes-subtly-dressing-hollywoods-cool-girls/docview/2929321491/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Danielle Goldberg was sitting at a table with her eyes glued to a laptop screen. On it was the actress Greta Lee, who was trying on a satin gown the same color as the flesh of a banana.
"This dress cannot puddle," Mrs. Goldberg, 40, said, squinting her eyes as she focused on a slight break at the bottom of the custom Loewe piece. (Ms. Lee is an ambassador for the brand.) It was just past 9 on a Saturday evening in January, the night before the Golden Globe Awards, and Mrs. Goldberg, a stylist, was conducting a video fitting from her studio in New York with Ms. Lee, who was beaming in from her home in Los Angeles.
"What it's doing right now," Mrs. Goldberg said of the dress onscreen, "it can't do that. It has to be perfect." Nanaz Hatami, a tailor Mrs. Goldberg has worked with for five years, who was with Ms. Lee, sprang into action.
Video fittings have been a solution for the stylist as she has juggled the demands of her job, which lately has included dressing Ms. Lee along with the actress Ayo Edebiri and the singer-songwriter Olivia Rodrigo for awards season appearances.
Mrs. Goldberg, who lives in downtown Manhattan with her husband, Michael Goldberg, a creative director, and their young son, doesn't like to spend too much time away from home if she can help it. Especially now that she is pregnant with her second child.
Halfway through the fitting with Ms. Lee, flashes of red began appearing at the bottom corner of Mrs. Goldberg's laptop. They were photos from the stylist's assistant in Los Angeles showing Ms. Edebiri in her own custom dress, made of scarlet satin by Prada. The following night, millions of viewers watched as Ms. Edebiri clutched the gown's train while accepting the Golden Globe for best actress in a TV musical or comedy.
The next Sunday, Mrs. Goldberg was contemplating another outfit with Ms. Edebiri, this time in person at a Los Angeles hotel where the two were meeting ahead of the Critics Choice Awards. In a video call from the hotel room, Mrs. Goldberg explained that the actress's look -- a roomy white suit by the Row and wire-rimmed Oliver Peoples sunglasses -- was inspired by outfits worn by Whoopi Goldberg in the '90s.
Mrs. Goldberg has been working with Ms. Edebiri for just a few months: The actress's team approached the stylist after noticing her work with Ms. Lee and Kaia Gerber, a model and an actress. (Mrs. Goldberg's celebrity styling fees are typically paid by studios and brands working with her clients.) Ms. Edebiri, 28, said Mrs. Goldberg had played a crucial role as her profile rose after she received a spate of accolades for her work in "The Bear."
She choked back tears as she described how Mrs. Goldberg's approach to styling had made her feel comfortable and, in turn, confident. "We have these conversations," Ms. Edebiri said. "Sometimes it will be, like, an ode to Whoopi. Then I can have that in my mind when I'm out there taking pictures, which is fun. It's like an actor telling a story."
"I get to be myself," she said, "but also have this armor of the clothes."
Chioma Nnadi, the head of editorial content at British Vogue, said Ms. Edebiri had made "strong fashion choices" that still reflected her "sense of humor and youthful energy" -- a balance, Ms. Nnadi added, that can be hard to strike. Mrs. Goldberg's ability to shape a rising star's look, she said, "is so powerful."
Recent looks Mrs. Goldberg has styled -- including a feathered-and-opera-gloved ensemble by Bottega Veneta that Ms. Edebiri wore to the British Academy Film Awards on Sunday, and Ms. Rodrigo's vintage white Versace gown at the Grammys -- reflect her aim to have "this moment that feels like a quiet statement," as she put it.
Zanna Roberts Rassi, a fashion correspondent for "E! Live from the Red Carpet," described Mrs. Goldberg's aesthetic as an antidote to the flamboyant attire that has lately been embraced as formal wear. "You know when you are in a meeting and there is a person who speaks quietly and you really listen to them?" Ms. Rassi said. "She is the equivalent of that."
Ms. Lee, 40, compared her relationship with Mrs. Goldberg to "the dreamiest collaboration" between an actor and a director. The "Past Lives" actress said the outfits they have chosen -- like a meme-inspiring, blood-orange Bottega Veneta dress she wore to the Governors Awards last month in Los Angeles -- are not for attention, but "for no one other than us."
They met in 2013 when Mrs. Goldberg had a gig in the wardrobe department of a TV show on which Ms. Lee was a guest star. Later that decade, Ms. Lee approached Mrs. Goldberg about dressing her while preparing to promote another show.
The stylist put the actress, who was pregnant at the time, in an archival floral-print dress from a Balenciaga collection by Nicolas Ghesquière. "I knew that I wanted to do something mini, even though she was pregnant," Mrs. Goldberg said. "Greta can carry fashion that isn't easy and make it look effortless."
Ms. Lee said their red-carpet moments could not have been achieved without the stylist's exhaustive researching of references and encyclopedic memory of runway shows. Mrs. Goldberg started learning about the industry sooner than others: Her father, Oded Nachmani, founded a contemporary sportswear line called Coolwear not long after she was born. (Her mother, Carrie Nachmani, came up with the name for the brand, now defunct.)
She was raised in Old Westbury, N.Y., and has two younger sisters, Michaela Podolsky and Arielle Charnas, both of whom are influencers. Ms. Charnas may be better known to some as Something Navy, the name she used to develop an audience online and then later to start a clothing brand of her own, which has drawn criticism for the quality of its products and has reportedly accrued millions in debt.
"To see her build her own business and see it fail publicly," Mrs. Goldberg said, before collecting herself. "My sister has incredibly thick skin," she said of Ms. Charnas. "She needs to figure out what her next step is, and she is. The noise doesn't help."
Mrs. Goldberg said she is far less comfortable with sharing her personal life on social media than her sisters are. Ms. Lee said: "In her dreams she would be invisible."
While studying at Syracuse University, Mrs. Goldberg had internships at Vogue and with the stylist Andrea Lieberman. Her first job out of college was a front-desk position at Pier 59 Studios in Manhattan. It afforded her face time with editors and stylists she aspired to work with. "That was my savviest moment to date," she said.
She was later hired as a fashion assistant at T: The New York Times Style Magazine but was fired after six months because jewelry was misplaced. "It was a crucial lesson," she said.
Two other magazine jobs followed before Mrs. Goldberg started working as an assistant to Annabel Tollman, a celebrity and editorial stylist. While she was working for Ms. Tollman, who died in 2013, her boss started styling Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen for a tour promoting their 2008 book, "Influence." Mrs. Goldberg got to know the sisters and, in 2009, she was approached about dressing them for the Met Gala.
"I was in a Patagonia store when I got the call," she said. "My head nearly exploded." She dressed Mary-Kate in vintage Christian Lacroix. Ashley wore a white gown by the Row.
She continued to dress the Olsens for events and appearances in the months that followed before moving on to jobs styling runway shows for New York designers like Timo Weiland and Tanya Taylor. She styled Ethan Hawke for a period after meeting the actor at a photo shoot.
In 2017, she dressed Kendall Jenner for a Pepsi commercial that the brand quickly pulled after criticism that it trivialized Black Lives Matter protests. "It was insane to me how it all turned out," Mrs. Goldberg said, adding that she had no knowledge of what the final ad would be.
That same year Laura Harrier hired Mrs. Goldberg while that actress was promoting the film "Spider-Man: Homecoming." "Laura hiring me changed everything," Mrs. Goldberg said, because she was hungry for clients who "really loved fashion."
On a Wednesday in late January, Mrs. Goldberg was at her studio organizing both Ms. Rodrigo's wardrobe for the Grammys and Ms. Edebiri's for a "Saturday Night Live" hosting gig (a Thom Browne corset and pants). "If I wasn't this pregnant, I would be getting on the first flight to L.A. after 'S.N.L.' for the Grammys," she said.
Her second child, a girl, is due in May -- the same week as the Met Gala. Maternity leave doesn't exist in her chosen profession, Mrs. Goldberg joked.
But time off, according to Ms. Lee, is not something the stylist often seeks out. "Danielle is so satiated by the work," she said. "She is relentless."
Photograph Above, Danielle Goldberg. From far left, Ayo Edebiri at the Golden Globes and at the Critics Choice Awards this year. Below, from far left, Greta Lee at a premiere in 2019 and at the Golden Globes this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISABELLE ZHAO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; SINNA NASSERI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; RODIN ECKENROTH/GETTY IMAGES; ANGELA WEISS/GETTY IMAGES; JORDAN STRAUSS/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page D5.

Subject: Actors; Celebrities; Motion picture directors & producers; Maternity & paternity leaves; Employment

Business indexing term: Subject: Maternity & paternity leaves Employment

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120; Name: Bottega Veneta; NAICS: 449129, 458320, 459420

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/19/style/danielle-goldberg-ayo-edebiri-stylist.html

Title: She's Subtly Dressing Hollywood's Cool Girls:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 22, 2024

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2929321491

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shes-subtly-dressing-hollywoods-cool-girls/docview/2929321491/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 22, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Recycling Cans Changed My Grandpa's Life: [Op-Ed]

Author: Li, Andrew

Publication info: Li, Andrew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recycling-cans-changed-my-grandpas-life/docview/2928742267/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When I was in the fifth grade, my grandpa took me to my school's dumpster. "You know the Coca-Cola and water bottles that people throw out?" he asked me in Mandarin. I nodded, spotting two empty Poland Spring bottles lying on top of a nearby garbage pile. He swiftly plucked them out and stowed them away in a plastic bag. "That's 10 cents. Your turn," he said, smiling as I ran to another trash can. Seconds later, I emerged victorious, holding a Pepsi can over my head as if it were a trophy.
My grandpa was a canner, someone who collects recyclable containers on the street and redeems them for money. In New York State, canning is possible because of the Returnable Container Act, passed in 1982, which calls for a 5-cent deposit on glass, metal and plastic beverage containers. Though the law was meant to reduce litter and encourage recycling, it has also had the effect of offering a lifeline to some New Yorkers. A new bill that is pending in the State Legislature offers a chance for us to significantly improve the welfare of canners like my grandpa.
There are an estimated 4,000 to 8,000 canners in New York City. Many of them turn to canning because they are unable to earn a steady income for a variety of reasons -- because they are homeless, unemployed or recent immigrants, as my grandpa was.
It's easy to see canning as sad and degrading. When I was in the fifth grade, I remember the looks of disgust and bewilderment on my classmates' faces when I told them that picking through the trash was actually quite profitable. I quickly learned not to offer this observation. Nonetheless, I was raised to respect family members, especially my elders, so I was never embarrassed that my grandpa was a canner.
On the streets of New York, though, my grandpa endured scathing looks. And some of his family members looked down on him for doing work they saw as dirty and indecent.
But there's a difference between being desperate and being pitiable. Though it's no one's first choice as a profession, canning offered my grandpa a chance to build a life and a family. He always took pride in his work.
When my grandparents left China for the United States, not knowing English barred them from most work, and they had to rely on what little money they could earn through odd jobs or, eventually, canning. Some people collect cans to supplement their savings and support their family members. My grandpa remembers spending hours every day picking up bottles just to earn enough money so that his family could sleep with full stomachs.
His top priority was making sure that my dad could attend college without taking out loans -- a feat he was able to accomplish. Even after landing a construction job, my grandpa continued to can for 30 years, until the start of the pandemic, as a way of helping to pay the bills.
Since the Returnable Container Act was passed four decades ago, the benefits of canning have been dwindling. Five cents today is worth only a third as much as it was in 1982. To earn just $ 5, barely enough to afford a meal, you have to collect 100 containers. That's 100 instances of finding and collecting, not to mention carrying everything you've gathered to a redemption center. Many stores also impose limits on the number and types of containers that can be redeemed, requiring canners to travel to more than one place to unload their haul.
The new bill would double the bottle deposit from to 10 cents from 5 cents, as well as expand the kinds of containers that are redeemable. For many canners, a greater return would mean less time on the streets and more time to devote to education, family and working toward a more stable income.
Canning is no easy task, as my grandpa regularly pointed out. He frequently brought me along to help him carry and redeem the containers we collected. As a teenager, I had little trouble walking the half-mile route, picking out recyclables, but since my grandpa was in his 70s, he would have to stop and rest regularly. "You're lucky," he would tell me. "When you get to my age, everything is 10 times harder."
Increasing the deposit on containers would also most likely be a boon to recycling. In 2020, New York recycled 5.5 billion containers, with redemption rates of 64 percent. Some of this is thanks to the long hours that canners spend picking up after other people, and in 2022, the rate reached 70 percent. Still, this percentage can be improved, as demonstrated by Michigan's 76 percent redemption rate and Oregon's 86 percent, both of which offer 10 cents for containers. I don't think it's a coincidence that the states with the highest redemption rates tend to have the highest deposits.
The benefits of doubling the bottle deposit are clear. It's time to give canners the respect they deserve.
Andrew Li is a senior at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WELSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Families & family life; Redemption centers; Recycling

Business indexing term: Subject: Redemption centers

Location: New York; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/18/opinion/redeeming-cans-bottles.html

Title: Recycling Cans Changed My Grandpa's Life:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 21, 2024

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2928742267

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recycling-cans-changed-my-grandpas-life/docview/2928742267/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 21, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

CoStar Debuts At Super Bowl With Four Ads: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Kamin, Debra

Publication info: Kamin, Debra. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/costar-debuts-at-super-bowl-with-four-ads/docview/2925365775/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The real estate analytics company poured millions of dollars into ads for Homes.com and Apartments.com in its latest effort to challenge rival home-search portals, like Zillow and Realtor.com.
CoStar Group, the $ 34 billion real estate analytics company, slammed into its Super Bowl debut with four high-gloss commercials on Sunday night, buying up more airtime than Pepsi and even the perennial favorite Budweiser, which each only purchased two multimillion slots on football's biggest night.
The commercials -- three for CoStar subsidiary Homes.com and one for another subsidiary, Apartments.com -- were just the kickoff in a planned yearlong advertising barrage for the upstart home-search portals. The CoStar chief executive, Andy Florance, said he hopes the media blitz will earn the company dominion over rival home-search sites. Last year, Homes.com announced it had reached 100 million monthly visitors, trailing behind Zillow but placing it ahead of both Redfin and Realtor.com.
On its website, Homes.com touts a $ 1 billion marketing push, describing the investment as "the biggest marketing campaign in real estate history." In the weeks following the big game, the website promises, "Homes.com will be everywhere morning to late night," with an ongoing advertising rollout that will include radio, streaming platforms and prime-time television. The combined two minutes and 15 seconds of ads that aired while the Kansas City Chiefs battled the San Francisco 49ers likely cost $ 35 million, according to Ad Age. The four ads were anchored by the celebrities Jeff Goldblum, Dan Levy and Heidi Gardner, with a cameo from the rapper Lil Wayne, whose alter egos negotiated with aliens and smashed a high-rise office building's windows with a larger-than-life champagne cork. In each bit, the actors created minor havoc in residential communities while performing neighborhood reconnaissance for prospective home buyers. And in not one but two of the ads, Mr. Levy and Ms. Gardner escaped peril in a branded Homes.com helicopter, its blades whirring and droning above a football game and a quiet cul-de-sac.
It's a bid that is likely to pay off, advertising pundits said on Monday.
"Companies sometimes make the mistake of running a Super Bowl ad and then disappearing," said Mitch Burg, a former president of both MediaEdge, a media buying company, and the Syndicated Network Television Association. "If you do that, your name recognition will also disappear. But if you're running in the Super Bowl as part of launching a campaign you plan to sustain, then it's a very smart way to get reach."
And for a cash-flush company, taking out four ads rather than just one can have impact, Mr. Burg said.
"If you break down the commercials, beyond Dan Levy and Heidi Gardner and Jeff Goldblum, really what they kept bringing it back to was simple: name recognition," he said.
CoStar, which acquired Apartments.com in 2014, added Homes.com in 2021. Since then, the company has been actively courting both real estate agents and home buyers, while thumbing its nose -- and its deep pockets -- at competitors.
Mr. Florance, who founded CoStar in a dorm room in 1986, refers to a trio of rival sites -- Zillow, Realtor.com and Redfin -- as "Ziltorfin" and has accused them of using bait-and-switch tactics to lure in home shoppers and then sell their contact information to dozens of anonymous real estate agents.
Representatives for Zillow declined to comment. In a company statement, Realtor.com said, "We love competition, it makes us better."
Alina Ptaszynski, a spokesperson for Redfin, pointed out unlike on Redfin, agents are charged fees to advertise themselves on Homes.com. She said that while brokerages and the National Association of Realtors face legal challenges over commission rates, sky-high marketing budgets would only drive up their costs.
"The billions being spent on Lil Wayne and this whole Super Bowl extravaganza are just a sideshow if all that doesn't help people move to a better life," she said. "And with these huge lawsuits over high brokerage fees, the real question is: Who's paying for it? Agents spend thousands per month to appear on these portals, costs that are passed onto the consumer."
In November, at the flagship real estate conference for the National Association of Realtors, CoStar sponsored the largest booth in the exhibition hall at the Anaheim Convention Center, plastered its logo on shuttle buses used by agents and hosted a private, free Goo Goo Dolls concert for attendees.
The Super Bowl ad buy was the latest salvo.
In an interview with The New York Times in December, Mr. Florance recalled having dinner with Mr. Levy in London and laughing about a 2021 skit on Saturday Night Live that included Mr. Levy and Ms. Gardner. In it, several members of the S.N.L. cast scrolled Zillow.com late at night in a manner similar to phone sex, and then were bombarded with calls from real estate agents.
On those sites, Mr. Florance said, "You're typically sold off as a lead to some unrelated agent," leading to home shoppers being bombarded with cold phone solicitations. "That's a bad customer experience," he added. "As a real estate agent, you don't want Saturday Night Live parodying the consumer experience."
At the time, Rich Barton, Zillow's chief executive, made light of the ribbing on the website formerly known as Twitter, writing, "Wait. Have we been marketing @zillow wrong all these years?"
This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Professional football; Marketing; Television advertising; Web portals

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Television advertising

People: Goldblum, Jeff; Lil Wayne (rapper)

Company / organization: Name: Apartments.com; NAICS: 531110; Name: National Association of Realtors; NAICS: 813910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/12/realestate/costar-group-super-bowl-ads.html

Title: CoStar Debuts At Super Bowl With Four Ads:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 13, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2925365775

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/costar-debuts-at-super-bowl-with-four-ads/docview/2925365775/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Advertising Enlists A.I. On Old Trick: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/advertising-enlists-i-on-old-trick/docview/2923201860/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Realistic-looking shampoo bottles and seltzer cans are popping up on videos from digital creators on TikTok and YouTube in a new form of old advertising.
Product placement, one of the oldest tricks in advertisers' toolbox, is getting an A.I. makeover.
New technology has made it easier to insert digital, realistic-looking versions of soda cans and shampoo onto the tables and walls of videos on YouTube and TikTok. And a growing group of creators and advertisers is grabbing at the chance for an additional revenue stream.
A recent TikTok from the dancer Melissa Becraft featured a poster for Bubly, the sparkling-water brand owned by PepsiCo, hanging on the wall of her apartment as she shimmied to a Shakira song. A duo known as HiveMind chatted about bands while an animated can of Starry soda, another brand owned by PepsiCo, landed on a table between them. And a YouTube video of the "AsianBossGirl" podcast recently displayed a table of Garnier hair products.
Virtual product placements have been offered by start-ups and streaming services like Amazon Prime and NBC's Peacock in recent years. But a recent wave of them on social media, in which brief, animated messages disclosing the sponsorships appear on the videos themselves, is the work of a start-up called Rembrand.
The ads provide a glimpse into one way A.I. might shape advertising in the future, especially as marketers look to reach younger viewers who are apt to skip or ignore standard ads.
Rembrand's executives say their technology could transform product placements, which have often been used to cut production costs on bigger projects and can take weeks, months or sometimes years to negotiate.
For creators, it's a way to make money from advertisers without physically handling products or discussing them.
"This feels like I'm making my own genuine content, but it doesn't scream that I'm making an ad," said Ms. Becraft, 28, who has made two TikTok videos that featured Bubly. "There's no obligation for me to talk about it."
Product placements in the United States are estimated to be a nearly $ 23 billion industry, according to PQ Media, a research firm. It has become increasingly appealing to advertisers, which have grown worried about consumers skipping commercials or the ads before YouTube videos.
The shifting viewership to social platforms and advances in technology have opened a new frontier for this work, moving it beyond getting Coca-Cola cups on the "American Idol" judges' table or cereal brands into WB shows.
Rembrand, which has 42 employees and is based in Palo Alto, Calif., believes it's on the forefront of these changes. It raised $ 14 million in seed funding from the likes of Greycroft and the venture arms of UTA Ventures and L'Oreal since it was created in 2022. One of its founders, Omar Tawakol, 55, spent years in programmatic advertising and is best known for founding and selling BlueKai -- which helped marketers track users' online behavior for ad targeting -- to Oracle in 2014.
Mr. Tawakol said he saw an opportunity to use A.I. to insert virtual products in influencer videos and make it a fast and easy ad buy.
Rembrand uses a form of generative A.I. that can "take an existing scene and figure out how to put a product in it," Mr. Tawakol said. "The product has to look exactly right -- Pepsi is not going to be forgiving if you screw with their logo," he added.
The company "had to train the laws of physics into the network," Mr. Tawakol said, so that objects would properly respond to things like light, camera distance and motion. Rembrand started placements with podcasts on YouTube because "they tended to be indoors, they tended to have fixed cameras, and they tended to have a table and a wall," he said.
It then expanded to LinkedIn and TikTok; Instagram is next. (The company said it went with the name Rembrand -- an allusion to the Dutch artist, who spelled it Rembrandt -- because it wanted an artistic bent while also sounding like shorthand for "remember the brand.")
Rembrand is still asking creators like Ms. Becraft to film indoors as they improve the technology. "The things I'm more famous for are dancing outside in the rain and dancing in Times Square," she said. "They told me that if you do that our technology might have a heart attack."
The placements are not as subtle as the ones in TV shows. Starry and Bubly cans wiggle before entering videos, and logos hover above them. The company shared a demo in which a digitized Tide Pen danced onto a podcast host's shirt and wiped away a stain before vanishing, "Fantasia" style. The company experimented with "what animations were acceptable," after realizing they could spike attention on the products, said Cory Treffiletti, 50, Rembrand's chief marketing officer.
Madison Luscombe, chief marketing officer of the Creator Society, an agency that works with Ms. Becraft, said that while the use of A.I.-generated product placement was in its early days, the deals could be valuable for "entertainment creators" who are focused on performing, podcasting or playing games, and aren't necessarily approached by brands as often to extol mascara or new snacks to their fans.
Advertisers use Rembrand's marketplace to connect with more than 1,000 creators from agencies it works with. Creators upload their videos to its platform and receive them within 24 hours with the product placements. Rembrand has someone check for quality and someone else for how the brand appears. Then creators upload the clips and eventually get paid from the brands based on video views. Rembrand declined to share specific figures around payouts.
The company said it expected to turn into a "self-service platform" by the middle of this year, where any creator or brand could connect and run digital product placement campaigns without Rembrand's involvement.
When asked why YouTube, TikTok and Instagram wouldn't just offer this option directly to creators on their platforms, Mr. Tawakol said he would "love" if they wanted to work with him. "I designed my business to integrate it with platforms," he said. "We want to be the world's best at this one very specific problem."
Photograph Screenshots of TikTok videos that used A.I. to digitally superimpose an animated can of Starry soda between a duo known as HiveMind, and a poster for Bubly sparkling water on the wall of the dancer Melissa Becraft's apartment. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA TIKTOK) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Marketing; Logos; Advertising; Video recordings; Product placement; Social networks; Artificial intelligence

Business indexing term: Subject: Marketing Logos Advertising Product placement Social networks Artificial intelligence

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/01/business/media/artificial-intelligence-product-placement.html

Title: Advertising Enlists A.I. On Old Trick:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 8, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2923201860

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/advertising-enlists-i-on-old-trick/docview/2923201860/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 8, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

French Chain Drops Pepsi Over Prices: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Alderman, Liz

Publication info: Alderman, Liz. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/french-chain-drops-pepsi-over-prices/docview/2910068355/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Carrefour, a supermarket chain, said the maker of Pepsi, Lay's and 7-Up was keeping its food "unacceptably" expensive despite falling inflation.
The economic headlines in Europe have been glowing recently: Inflation, according to official statistics, is finally coming down. But tell that to consumers still facing runaway prices when they head to the supermarket.
On Thursday, France's biggest food retailer took a drastic step to confront the situation, announcing that it would no longer sell PepsiCo products because the prices were "unacceptably" high for consumers, escalating a showdown by French retailers to name and shame brands that aren't lowering prices as inflation eases.
Carrefour, a global retail giant, put up posters Thursday throughout its 3,440 supermarkets in France where Lay's potato chips, Pepsi and 7-Up soft drinks, as well as Doritos, Quaker cereals and other PepsiCo products, are typically displayed. "We are no longer selling this brand due to an unacceptable price increase," the signs said.
A spokesperson for PepsiCo said the company had "been in discussion with Carrefour for many months, and we will continue to engage in good faith in order to try to ensure that our products are available."
The move was the latest broadside -- encouraged by the French government -- to try to strong-arm manufacturers to lower food costs that have continued to buffet families despite a broad slowdown in price increases across Europe.
Part of that campaign includes identifying brands that also engage in the practice of shrinkflation, in which manufacturers downsize food packages while maintaining or raising the price.
Inflation in the eurozone fell to a new two-year low in November, dropping much faster than expected as a result of an aggressive campaign of interest rate increases by the European Central Bank and efforts by European countries to ease prices for energy and food. In France, inflation rose at an annual rate of 3.7 percent in December, down a third from a year earlier.
But food price inflation is especially persistent. A typical basket of food basics in France, from pasta to yogurt, is still 7 percent higher than it was a year ago.
Some manufacturers have justified those costs by arguing that profit margins in Europe are below average because the costs of inputs are particularly high. Unilever's chief financial officer, Graeme Pitkethly, told analysts in October that "the extent of price increases, whilst historically high, has still not been enough to cover the cost inflation that we have experienced."
France, which is Europe's biggest market for groceries by supermarket sales, has been pressuring manufacturers and retailers for over a year to force prices down.
President Emmanuel Macron has said he wants to see food prices come down by at least 5 percent, to reflect an overall decline in raw material costs that has started to emerge after more than a year of record-high prices resulting in large part from Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
In November, he demanded that a deadline for once-a-year price negotiations between French retailers and manufacturers be moved up two months, to the end of January, to bring quicker relief for shoppers. France also recently submitted a proposal to the European Union that would force food retailers to carry out a shrinkflation labeling campaign. Carrefour has started marking its shelves with signs detailing the degree of shrinkage and how much consumers were getting gouged on prices.
"We have large companies that are jacking up the prices of some of their brands, and we want to get them around the table again and achieve price decreases as quickly as possible," Mr. Macron said. "It is intolerable to see so many households having to make choices about essential goods."
Many global consumer goods companies have raised prices by double-digit percentages in the past year. They have often attributed the increases to higher costs of ingredients and labor. At the same time, many of those companies have reported expanding profits as they sell fewer items at higher prices.
In recent months, companies have reported that shoppers are more weighed down by inflation and high interest rates. Companies that sell consumer goods, including PepsiCo, have reported noticing customers tighten their purse strings.
"I do think that we see the consumer right now being more selective," Hugh Johnston, PepsiCo's chief financial officer at the time, told analysts in an October earnings call. "You see some orientation toward value."
Retailers are eager to see prices come down. Executives at Walmart, the largest U.S. retailer, welcomed the moderating prices of general merchandise leading into the holiday season, but worried about stubbornly high food prices.
"The pockets of disinflation we are seeing are helping, but we'd like to see more, faster, especially in the dry grocery and consumables categories," Doug McMillon, chief executive of Walmart, told analysts in November.
The move in France comes amid broader momentum in Europe to tackle a cost-of-living crisis that has persisted even as the economy flags. While the U.S. economy has been expanding, Europe has been moving along a very different path: a drawn-out economic slowdown burdened by a double dose of high interest rates and the lingering impact of the energy crisis set off by Russia's war in Ukraine.
In Italy, the government has sought to pressure retailers and manufacturers to reduce food prices. The Greek government has started requiring supermarkets to report the prices being charged for basic foods.
Other big French supermarket chains said they might follow suit. "It's not over," Michel-Édouard Leclerc, the president of Leclerc, a major food retailer, said in an interview on French radio Tuesday. He added that many food manufacturers were still asking for price increases of 6 to 8 percent.
J. Edward Moreno contributed reporting from New York.
J. Edward Moreno contributed reporting from New York.
Photograph Carrefour's move is part of France's campaign to force manufacturers to lower costs. It affects PepsiCo products like potato chips and soft drinks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH MEYSSONNIER/REUTERS) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Consumers; Costs; Price increases; Economic conditions; Supermarkets; Consumer goods; Retail stores; Inflation; Interest rates; Food prices; Soft drinks

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Costs Price increases Economic conditions Supermarkets Consumer goods Retail stores Inflation Interest rates Food prices

Location: Russia; New York; United States--US; France; Ukraine; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Carrefour SA; NAICS: 445110; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/04/business/france-carrefour-pepsi-prices.html

Title: French Chain Drops Pepsi Over Prices:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jan 5, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2910068355

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newsp apers/french-chain-drops-pepsi-over-prices/docview/2910068355/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-01-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Putin Turned a Western Boycott Into a War Chest Bonanza: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Sonne, Paul; Ruiz, Rebecca R

Publication info: Sonne, Paul; Ruiz, Rebecca R. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-putin-turned-western-boycott-into-war-chest/docview/2903229864/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: If companies want to leave Russia, the president is setting the terms -- in ways that benefit his government, his elites and his war.
Soon after Russian troops invaded his country, the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, made a plea to Western companies: "Leave Russia," he said. "Make sure that the Russians do not receive a single penny."
Hundreds of companies answered the call. Politicians and activists predicted that it would help strangle the Russian economy and undermine the Kremlin's war effort.
President Vladimir V. Putin had other plans.
Mr. Putin has turned the exits of major Western companies into a windfall for Russia's loyal elite and the state itself. He has forced companies wishing to sell to do so at fire-sale prices. He has limited sales to buyers anointed by Moscow. Sometimes he has seized firms outright.
A New York Times investigation traced how Mr. Putin has turned an expected misfortune into an enrichment scheme. Western companies that have announced departures have declared more than $ 103 billion in losses since the start of the war, according to a Times analysis of financial reports. Mr. Putin has squeezed companies for as much of that wealth as possible by dictating the terms of their departure.
He has also subjected those exits to ever-increasing taxes, generating at least $ 1.25 billion in the past year for Russia's war chest.
No private deal is safe. The Dutch beer company Heineken, for example, found a buyer this spring and set a price. But the Russian government unilaterally rejected the deal, people close to the negotiations said, and put the company's Russian holdings in the hands of an aerosol-packaging titan married to a former Russian senator.
In all, Mr. Putin has overseen one of the biggest transfers of wealth within Russia since the fall of the Soviet Union. Huge swaths of industries -- elevators, tires, industrial coatings and more -- are now in the hands of increasingly dominant Russian players.
In some cases, that player is the state. Government-owned enterprises have acquired the assets of corporate giants like Ikea and Toyota. In many cases, Mr. Putin personally signs off on sales.
"These are good deals for us, for sure," said Anton Pinsky, a prominent restaurateur who joined with a pro-Putin rapper and associates of a powerful senator to take over Starbucks. In an interview in Moscow, he downplayed the significance of his own deal but was clear about the effect of the Western departures.
"You screwed up, left it," he said. "We picked it up inexpensively. Thank you."
Today in Russia, a robust consumer world carries on, helping Mr. Putin maintain a sense of normalcy despite a war that has proved longer, deadlier and costlier than he predicted.
Most foreign companies remain in Russia, unwilling to lose the billions they've invested there over decades. Other businesses have been sold and now have a through-the-looking-glass feel. Krispy Kreme is now Krunchy Dream; its doughnuts come in a similar flat box with familiar flavors. Starbucks has been reborn as Stars Coffee. Its mermaid is now a Russian swan princess.
These companies can buy raw materials domestically or import them from friendly countries. And customers can still easily buy products that have supposedly been pulled from shelves. On a recent day, a Moscow supermarket offered Pepsi from Uzbekistan and Coca-Cola from Poland.
Mr. Putin's economic counterstrikes have helped to fortify support among the elites profiting from the war and to blunt the effects of Western isolation. While Ukraine is preoccupied with short-term imperatives like shoring up international support, the relative resilience of the Russian economy has enabled Mr. Putin to play a long game.
Previously undisclosed documents, financial statements and interviews with dozens of deal makers in Russia and across Europe -- many of whom spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution -- show that Moscow now micromanages practically every exit. Companies must navigate an opaque system to win approval to sell. In some cases, Mr. Putin's friends have appealed directly to him to intervene.
"Those who are leaving are losing their position," Dmitri S. Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, told The Times. "And of course, their property is being bought at a serious discount and taken over by our companies, which are doing it with pleasure."
Still, the wave of departing companies has stung. It has sent a global signal that Russia is a business pariah. The economy is strained and at risk of overheating. Mr. Putin's handling of Western departures has only reinforced Russia's image as a dangerous place to do business. Even some top Russian officials admit that decreased competition and foreign investment will hurt everyday Russians and the economy in the long term.
The Kremlin says it prefers that companies remain in Russia. But Mr. Putin scoffs at the notion that leaving will hurt. "Did they think everything would collapse here? Well, nothing of the kind happened," he said this month. "Russian companies took over and moved on."
Not every deal is a windfall. Some buyers will face steep obstacles to make their new businesses profitable.
Hanging over the exit process for Western firms is the threat of intimidation and force. The Russian authorities have investigated departing companies, interrogated workers and arrested local executives.
Last summer, Mr. Putin seized the Russian arm of the Danish brewer Carlsberg, along with roughly half a billion dollars in cash, and put them under the temporary control of one of his friends.
At least four other companies have similarly lost control of their operations this year to effective state seizures.
Today, Mr. Putin is at the helm of a fraught exit process that works to Russia's advantage. But it began in the early days of the war with the urgent goal of simply keeping the Russian economy alive.
Blocking the Exits
Speaking from the White House two weeks after the invasion, President Biden boasted that the West was crushing the Russian economy. "The list of businesses and international corporations leaving Russia is growing by the day," he said.
Things looked bleak for Mr. Putin. The stock exchange in Moscow was closed and the ruble had crashed. If Russia lost all the jobs, production and cash of Western companies, the effects would be devastating.
But Mr. Putin was preparing his financial rejoinder. He restricted the movement of money abroad and required that companies from "unfriendly nations" win approval before selling their businesses.
Mr. Putin was putting the brakes on just as Western executives faced pressure to accelerate. In the United States, there was perhaps no more vocal figure than the Yale University management professor Jeffrey Sonnenfeld. He appeared on cable news programs, criticizing companies that remained in Russia.
Professor Sonnenfeld recalled that it was corporate boycotts -- more than sanctions -- that helped abolish apartheid in South Africa. He transformed his office into a sort of war room, with a Yale team grading companies on their efforts to sever Russian ties.
The question of who would end up with those companies was of little concern.
"If Putin thinks he can do better at the deep fryer, let him have at it," he said in an interview. "We really don't care. The important thing is to not have the endorsement of a renowned global brand."
Professor Sonnenfeld's list and others like it added to pressure from shareholders, Ukrainian activists and everyday consumers.
Some executives worried what would happen to their Russian employees, factories and technology if they walked away. Others were reluctant to abandon their investments over a war that might prove short-lived.
But some quickly announced intentions to go. Heineken and Carlsberg said that they would leave once they found buyers. The Canadian gold mining company Kinross did the same, and within days announced a deal for $ 680 million to sell its Russian operation to a local buyer.
OBI, a German hardware store chain, went a step further, saying that it would close all 27 stores in Russia until it found a buyer.
Mr. Putin's government, though, was already erecting hurdles.
On March 17, 2022, the Russian Trade Ministry sent a letter to local OBI managers. The letter, reviewed by The Times, urged managers to defy the company and keep the stores open, citing consumer-protection laws. There was no "economic reason" for closing, the ministry wrote.
OBI, the ministry warned, needed to fulfill "obligations to its consumers, workers and counterparties, including suppliers." That prompted a days-long cat-and-mouse game as local employees tried to reopen stores and executives in Germany tried to stop them.
The Russian authorities also demanded that OBI officials testify about their plans. Prosecutors visited a store and inspected its computer system, the company told The Times.
OBI struck a deal that spring, ultimately selling for the symbolic price of a few dollars.
The buyer, a businessman named Josef Liokumovich, passed the company's background checks and was not on any financial blacklists. But as OBI soon learned, Western companies have no control over who ultimately takes over their operations.
In less than a year, OBI's Russia operation changed owners four times, ultimately landing with associates of the Russian senator Arsen B. Kanokov, who is under U.S. Treasury sanctions. At one point, an ally of the Chechen strongman Ramzan Kadyrov appeared in the ownership register.
Such redirection is why diplomats and experts say it is too early to understand the changing landscape. The true new owners of some businesses might not be known for years, if ever.
"These guys," Urszula Nartowska, OBI's top lawyer, said, "they have the power of what they want to take. And you have to accept that."
In June, the Kremlin demonstrated what companies could expect: Moscow approved the Kinross gold mine sale, but with a stunning alteration. The sale price had been cut in half, to $ 340 million.
The buyer, Highland Gold, would later be blacklisted by British officials who said that gold provided a "significant income stream for Russia's war effort."
"The government realized they could dictate who buys, and maybe use that power to reward connected buyers," said Alan Kartashkin, a lawyer for Debevoise & Plimpton who spent decades in Moscow and has negotiated the exits of Western companies.
"I remember thinking," Mr. Kartashkin added, "once they feel they have the power to control entirely private transactions, where the government has no equity interest, they're not going to stop."
'This Business Is Already Russian'
The mood was celebratory in July when the Russian minister of industry and trade, Denis V. Manturov, appeared at a St. Petersburg elevator factory.
The plant had recently belonged to the world's largest elevator company, the Connecticut-based Otis Worldwide. Now it belonged to a firm controlled by Armen M. Sarkisyan, who had made a fortune running the Russian lottery in part thanks to government connections.
Mr. Manturov bragged that Moscow had brokered special arrangements for the sale. He gushed about a new production line and robust demand for elevators in Russian high-rises. "This business is already Russian," he said. It was now known as Meteor.
Mr. Sarkisyan is an example of a unique creation of the war: a businessman who was politically connected enough to win such a prize and rich enough to close the deal -- but not so closely linked to the Kremlin that he was subject to international sanctions.
Mr. Sarkisyan and others, almost overnight, absorbed huge corners of their markets.
When the Finnish elevator giant Kone tried to sell to its employees, the authorities rejected the deal. Once again, Mr. Sarkisyan's holding company, S8 Capital, became the buyer.
S8 Capital also moved into the tire business, snapping up the Russian operation of the German company Continental, before buying the top Russian tire maker, Cordiant, and entering talks to purchase the Russian factory of the Japanese tire maker Bridgestone.
S8 Capital did not respond to requests for comment.
By the summer of 2022, Russia's economy had stabilized, the ruble had rebounded and Mr. Putin's strategy shifted.
While early in the war, companies like McDonald's had sold to local managers or local business associates, with an option to return to Russia later, such deals soon became more difficult.
Having climbed out of crisis, the government wanted to do more than just keep the doors open. It increasingly wanted to dictate the terms of every deal.
In August of that year, Mr. Putin issued a decree requiring that companies in key industries obtain his signature before selling their Russian assets. Scores of businesses, including divisions of Siemens and Caterpillar, were suddenly subject to the whims of Mr. Putin himself.
"The government was beginning to tighten up the process, and it was becoming a lot more challenging," said Laura Brank, a lawyer at Dechert helping Western companies to exit. "I was telling clients we'd better get moving quickly."
The Subcommission
For most companies trying to leave Russia, the gatekeepers operate out of a gray government building near Red Square. Eleven days after the war began, Mr. Putin empaneled a special "subcommission" there to review requests to sell.
Mr. Putin's longtime finance minister, Anton G. Siluanov, leads the subcommission, which includes officials from the Kremlin, the central bank and key ministries.
They decide whether companies can leave and under what terms.
Once a company has struck a deal with a buyer, the negotiations often begin again -- this time in secret, between the buyer and one of the Russian government ministries. The seller is largely excluded. That process, lawyers say, often ends with a lower sale price and at times a new buyer. The deal then goes to the subcommission. Sometimes, deals fall through after months of silence.
Internal minutes, reviewed by The Times, show that the subcommission scrutinizes even the smallest details. In one meeting last year, the panel approved the $ 59,000 sale of a tiny apartment owned by the Finnish tire company Nokian.
The subcommission wields enormous power. Minutes show that it rejected a proposal by the American electronics company Honeywell to sell its factories until an assessment proved that the Russian buyer was getting a 50 percent discount.
Despite the bureaucracy, businesspeople have jockeyed behind the scenes for the most lucrative assets, often appealing directly to Mr. Putin.
Such was the case in the summer of 2022, when Mondi, a British-Austrian paper company, found a buyer for one of Russia's largest mills and sought government approval to sell.
As the deal came together, one of Mr. Putin's old K.G.B. buddies, Sergei V. Chemezov, appeared. He wrote a letter asking that the president steer the mill toward a group of investors, including the state-owned firm he runs. He even suggested a way to structure the deal to get around Western sanctions. The Times reviewed a copy of the letter.
Neither Mr. Chemezov nor the state-owned company responded to requests for comment.
Mr. Chemezov's deal never happened, but neither did Mondi's original agreement. The subcommission put the mill in the hands of a Moscow property developer for significantly less than the original price.
Abroad, Professor Sonnenfeld and others kept up the pressure. More than 200 companies had earned "F" grades on his list. Professor Sonnenfeld testified before Congress in November 2022. Remaining in Russia, he said, was tantamount to supporting the government.
But under Mr. Putin's rules, leaving also directly benefited the government and, in turn, the war.
This year, the parent company of Ikea sold its Russian malls to a state-controlled bank. Nokian sold its operation to an oil company owned by a Russian regional government. The Russian operations of Nissan, Renault and Toyota were taken over by a state company.
The Russian government has looked to use former Western auto factories to produce vehicles, yachts and private jets for the state-owned luxury brand Aurus, according to an internal Trade Ministry document obtained by The Times.
Neither the Trade nor Finance Ministries responded to requests for comment.
Mr. Putin also found a way to bring money straight into state coffers.
Early on, foreign deals were subjected to what the government called a "voluntary tax" -- required for the privilege of taking money out of Russia in a lump sum. Companies that opted not to pay the tax would receive their payouts in installments.
But by early this year, Mr. Putin had stopped giving them the choice. Companies had to pay the tax, and they still might get their money in installments.
The Kremlin also made explicit what had been implied since the Kinross deal: Companies were required to sell for at least a 50 percent markdown.
Heineken, for About a Dollar
By 2023, the landscape had become unknowable. The Kremlin constantly changed the rules and seemed to be always demanding more. Companies including Unilever announced that they would rather remain in Russia than have their assets end up in the government's hands.
Against that backdrop, executives at Heineken and Carlsberg were still negotiating with prospective buyers this year when Mr. Putin awarded himself even greater powers.
The Russian government, he decreed in April, could seize foreign assets and put them under the temporary oversight of whomever it liked. Companies now risked being seized outright.
Heineken reached a deal that month and the buyer, a Kazakh businessman, requested government approval. Carlsberg executives followed suit, planning to sell to Arnest, the Russian aerosol maker that had recently snapped up the highly profitable drinks-packaging business of the U.S.-based Ball Corporation.
Both brewers felt confident that, more than a year after announcing plans to leave Russia, they would finally do so.
In July, Mr. Putin blindsided Carlsberg executives by seizing the company and placing it in the hands of his longtime associate and judo friend, Taimuraz Bolloev.
Carlsberg was an attractive target. The company controlled the iconic Russian beer brand Baltika and had recently valued its Russian operation at about $ 3 billion. Its sales application had revealed that it was sitting on a half-billion dollars in cash.
In another twist, Russian officials also rejected Heineken's deal. According to the people close to the negotiations, the authorities steered the business toward Arnest -- a consolation, perhaps, for having lost the far more lucrative Carlsberg.
The deal went through for a single euro and the promise to repay $ 100 million in debt.
For Carlsberg executives, the saga was far from over. Mr. Bolloev, they said, has pressured them to sign over the company permanently.
"It would require that we literally did a deal with Putin and his administration, creating a legitimate transaction where they could take over our business for basically close to nothing," Jacob Aarup-Andersen, the Carlsberg chief executive, said in an interview last month. "We just couldn't do that."
Within weeks, the Russian authorities had arrested two company employees and raided their homes. This month, Russian news outlets reported, Mr. Bolloev asked the authorities to nationalize the company.
Dmitri A. Medvedev, the former president who is the deputy chairman of Russia's security council, expressed no sympathy for companies trying to move money out of the country and take it back to the very countries arming Ukraine.
He taunted Carlsberg, thanking them for padding the Russian budget.
"A strong budget means help for the front," he wrote last month. "In this regard, the senseless Danes also contribute to modern Russian weapons."
Oleg Matsnev, Alina Lobzina and Anton Troianovski contributed reporting.
Oleg Matsnev, Alina Lobzina and Anton Troianovski contributed reporting.
Photograph The Nissan logo was dismantled following the sale of the carmaker's St. Petersburg assembly plant to a state company.; The Russian government has looked to use former Western auto factories to produce vehicles, yachts and private jets for the state. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IGOR RUSSAK/REUTERS); President Vladimir Putin of Russia, right, in a Kremlin meeting with Russia's minister of industry and trade, Denis V. Manturov. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPUTNIK/REUTERS); "Zamestim," Russian for "We will replace," made out of the logos of Western companies on a display in St. Petersburg, Russia. The departed companies have declared more than $ 103 billion in losses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEKSEY SMAGIN/KOMMERSANT, VIA ALAMY); From left, the businessman Armen M. Sarkisyan, St. Petersburg's governor, Alexander Beglov, and Mr. Manturov at the Otis elevator plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER DEMIANCHUK/TASS, VIA IMAGO IMAGES); COMPANIES THROUGH THE LOOKING-GLASS: Huge swaths of industries are now in the hands of dominant Russian players. Many companies have been simply reborn and rebranded since their sale. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEXANDER SAYGANOV/SOPA IMAGES, VIA AP; MAXIM SHEMETOV/REUTERS; JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES; EVGENIA NOVOZHENINA/REUTERS; NATALIA KOLESNIKOVA/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES; FEDERICO PARRA/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES; YURI KOCHETKOV/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; ALEXANDER ZEMLIANICHENKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8); Vladimir Pontanin: President of Interros, which purchased Société Générale's assets in Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXIM SHEMETOV/REUTERS); Leonid Mikhelson: Chairman of Novatek, which purchased Shell and TotalEnergies energy shareholdings. (POOL PHOTO BY RAMIL SITDIKOV); Timati and Anton Pinsky: Timati, a rapper, above, and Anton, a restaurateur, top, now co-own local operations of Starbucks and Domino's. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DMITRY SEREBRYAKOV/ASSOCIATED PRESS; MAXIM SHEMETOV/REUTERS); Ivan Tavrin: Russian investor behind Kismet Capital, which has invested in Henkel, Avito and Melon Fashion Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIA HARRIS/REUTERS); Armen Sarkisyan: Businessman behind S8 Capital, which bought the operations of Otis, Kone, Continental and Bosch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER DEMIANCHUK/TASS, VIA IMAGO IMAGES) (A9) This article appeared in print on page A1, A8, A9.

Subject: Presidents; Consumers; Purchasing; Asset acquisitions; Coffeehouses; Breweries; Corporate taxes

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Asset acquisitions Coffeehouses Breweries Corporate taxes

Location: Russia

People: Putin, Vladimir

Company / organization: Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/19/world/europe/putin-companies-economy-boycott-elites-benefit-ukraine-war.html

Title: How Putin Turned a Western Boycott Into a War Chest Bonanza:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 19, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2903229864

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-putin-turned-western-boycott-into-war-chest/docview/2903229864/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How Putin Turned a Western Boycott Into a War Chest Bonanza: [World]

Author: Sonne, Paul; Ruiz, Rebecca R; Chilla, Nico

Publication info: Sonne, Paul; Ruiz, Rebecca R; Chilla, Nico. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-putin-turned-western-boycott-into-war-chest/docview/2903229854/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Soon after Russian troops invaded his country, the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, made a plea to Western companies: "Leave Russia," he said. "Make sure that the Russians do not receive a single penny."
Hundreds of companies answered the call. Politicians and activists predicted that it would help strangle the Russian economy and undermine the Kremlin's war effort.
President Vladimir V. Putin had other plans.
Mr. Putin has turned the exits of major Western companies into a windfall for Russia's loyal elite and the state itself. He has forced companies wishing to sell to do so at fire-sale prices. He has limited sales to buyers anointed by Moscow. Sometimes he has seized firms outright.
A New York Times investigation traced how Mr. Putin has turned an expected misfortune into an enrichment scheme. Western companies that have announced departures have declared more than $ 103 billion in losses since the start of the war, according to a Times analysis of financial reports. Mr. Putin has squeezed companies for as much of that wealth as possible by dictating the terms of their departure.
He has also subjected those exits to ever-increasing taxes, generating at least $ 1.25 billion in the past year for Russia's war chest.
No private deal is safe. The Dutch beer company Heineken, for example, found a buyer this spring and set a price. But the Russian government unilaterally rejected the deal, people close to the negotiations said, and put the company's Russian holdings in the hands of an aerosol-packaging titan married to a former Russian senator.
In all, Mr. Putin has overseen one of the biggest transfers of wealth within Russia since the fall of the Soviet Union. Huge swaths of industries -- elevators, tires, industrial coatings and more -- are now in the hands of increasingly dominant Russian players.
In some cases, that player is the state. Government-owned enterprises have acquired the assets of corporate giants like Ikea and Toyota. In many cases, Mr. Putin personally signs off on sales.
"These are good deals for us, for sure," said Anton Pinsky, a prominent restaurateur who joined with a pro-Putin rapper and associates of a powerful senator to take over Starbucks. In an interview in Moscow, he downplayed the significance of his own deal but was clear about the effect of the Western departures.
"You screwed up, left it," he said. "We picked it up inexpensively. Thank you."
Today in Russia, a robust consumer world carries on, helping Mr. Putin maintain a sense of normalcy despite a war that has proved longer, deadlier and costlier than he predicted.
Most foreign companies remain in Russia, unwilling to lose the billions they've invested there over decades. Other businesses have been sold and now have a through-the-looking-glass feel. Krispy Kreme is now Krunchy Dream; its doughnuts come in a similar flat box with familiar flavors. Starbucks has been reborn as Stars Coffee. Its mermaid is now a Russian swan princess.
These companies can buy raw materials domestically or import them from friendly countries. And customers can still easily buy products that have supposedly been pulled from shelves. On a recent day, a Moscow supermarket offered Pepsi from Uzbekistan and Coca-Cola from Poland.
Mr. Putin's economic counterstrikes have helped to fortify support among the elites profiting from the war and to blunt the effects of Western isolation. While Ukraine is preoccupied with short-term imperatives like shoring up international support, the relative resilience of the Russian economy has enabled Mr. Putin to play a long game.
Previously undisclosed documents, financial statements and interviews with dozens of deal makers in Russia and across Europe -- many of whom spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution -- show that Moscow now micromanages practically every exit. Companies must navigate an opaque system to win approval to sell. In some cases, Mr. Putin's friends have appealed directly to him to intervene.
"Those who are leaving are losing their position," Dmitri S. Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, told The Times. "And of course, their property is being bought at a serious discount and taken over by our companies, which are doing it with pleasure."
Still, the wave of departing companies has stung. It has sent a global signal that Russia is a business pariah. The economy is strained and at risk of overheating. Mr. Putin's handling of Western departures has only reinforced Russia's image as a dangerous place to do business. Even some top Russian officials admit that decreased competition and foreign investment will hurt everyday Russians and the economy in the long term.
The Kremlin says it prefers that companies remain in Russia. But Mr. Putin scoffs at the notion that leaving will hurt. "Did they think everything would collapse here? Well, nothing of the kind happened," he said this month. "Russian companies took over and moved on."
Not every deal is a windfall. Some buyers will face steep obstacles to make their new businesses profitable.
Hanging over the exit process for Western firms is the threat of intimidation and force. The Russian authorities have investigated departing companies, interrogated workers and arrested local executives.
Last summer, Mr. Putin seized the Russian arm of the Danish brewer Carlsberg, along with roughly half a billion dollars in cash, and put them under the temporary control of one of his friends.
At least four other companies have similarly lost control of their operations this year to effective state seizures.
Today, Mr. Putin is at the helm of a fraught exit process that works to Russia's advantage. But it began in the early days of the war with the urgent goal of simply keeping the Russian economy alive.
Speaking from the White House two weeks after the invasion, President Biden boasted that the West was crushing the Russian economy. "The list of businesses and international corporations leaving Russia is growing by the day," he said.
Things looked bleak for Mr. Putin. The stock exchange in Moscow was closed and the ruble had crashed. If Russia lost all the jobs, production and cash of Western companies, the effects would be devastating.
But Mr. Putin was preparing his financial rejoinder. He restricted the movement of money abroad and required that companies from "unfriendly nations" win approval before selling their businesses.
Mr. Putin was putting the brakes on just as Western executives faced pressure to accelerate. In the United States, there was perhaps no more vocal figure than the Yale University management professor Jeffrey Sonnenfeld. He appeared on cable news programs, criticizing companies that remained in Russia.
Professor Sonnenfeld recalled that it was corporate boycotts -- more than sanctions -- that helped abolish apartheid in South Africa. He transformed his office into a sort of war room, with a Yale team grading companies on their efforts to sever Russian ties.
The question of who would end up with those companies was of little concern.
"If Putin thinks he can do better at the deep fryer, let him have at it," he said in an interview. "We really don't care. The important thing is to not have the endorsement of a renowned global brand."
Professor Sonnenfeld's list and others like it added to pressure from shareholders, Ukrainian activists and everyday consumers.
Some executives worried what would happen to their Russian employees, factories and technology if they walked away. Others were reluctant to abandon their investments over a war that might prove short-lived.
But some quickly announced intentions to go. Heineken and Carlsberg said that they would leave once they found buyers. The Canadian gold mining company Kinross did the same, and within days announced a deal for $ 680 million to sell its Russian operation to a local buyer.
OBI, a German hardware store chain, went a step further, saying that it would close all 27 stores in Russia until it found a buyer.
Mr. Putin's government, though, was already erecting hurdles.
On March 17, 2022, the Russian Trade Ministry sent a letter to local OBI managers. The letter, reviewed by The Times, urged managers to defy the company and keep the stores open, citing consumer-protection laws. There was no "economic reason" for closing, the ministry wrote.
OBI, the ministry warned, needed to fulfill "obligations to its consumers, workers and counterparties, including suppliers." That prompted a days-long cat-and-mouse game as local employees tried to reopen stores and executives in Germany tried to stop them.
The Russian authorities also demanded that OBI officials testify about their plans. Prosecutors visited a store and inspected its computer system, the company told The Times.
OBI struck a deal that spring, ultimately selling for the symbolic price of a few dollars.
The buyer, a businessman named Josef Liokumovich, passed the company's background checks and was not on any financial blacklists. But as OBI soon learned, Western companies have no control over who ultimately takes over their operations.
In less than a year, OBI's Russia operation changed owners four times, ultimately landing with associates of the Russian senator Arsen B. Kanokov, who is under U.S. Treasury sanctions. At one point, an ally of the Chechen strongman Ramzan Kadyrov appeared in the ownership register.
Such redirection is why diplomats and experts say it is too early to understand the changing landscape. The true new owners of some businesses might not be known for years, if ever.
"These guys," Urszula Nartowska, OBI's top lawyer, said, "they have the power of what they want to take. And you have to accept that."
In June, the Kremlin demonstrated what companies could expect: Moscow approved the Kinross gold mine sale, but with a stunning alteration. The sale price had been cut in half, to $ 340 million.
The buyer, Highland Gold, would later be blacklisted by British officials who said that gold provided a "significant income stream for Russia's war effort."
"The government realized they could dictate who buys, and maybe use that power to reward connected buyers," said Alan Kartashkin, a lawyer for Debevoise & Plimpton who spent decades in Moscow and has negotiated the exits of Western companies.
"I remember thinking," Mr. Kartashkin added, "once they feel they have the power to control entirely private transactions, where the government has no equity interest, they're not going to stop."
The mood was celebratory in July when the Russian minister of industry and trade, Denis V. Manturov, appeared at a St. Petersburg elevator factory.
The plant had recently belonged to the world's largest elevator company, the Connecticut-based Otis Worldwide. Now it belonged to a firm controlled by Armen M. Sarkisyan, who had made a fortune running the Russian lottery in part thanks to government connections.
Mr. Manturov bragged that Moscow had brokered special arrangements for the sale. He gushed about a new production line and robust demand for elevators in Russian high-rises. "This business is already Russian," he said. It was now known as Meteor.
Mr. Sarkisyan is an example of a unique creation of the war: a businessman who was politically connected enough to win such a prize and rich enough to close the deal -- but not so closely linked to the Kremlin that he was subject to international sanctions.
Mr. Sarkisyan and others, almost overnight, absorbed huge corners of their markets.
When the Finnish elevator giant Kone tried to sell to its employees, the authorities rejected the deal. Once again, Mr. Sarkisyan's holding company, S8 Capital, became the buyer.
S8 Capital also moved into the tire business, snapping up the Russian operation of the German company Continental, before buying the top Russian tire maker, Cordiant, and entering talks to purchase the Russian factory of the Japanese tire maker Bridgestone.
S8 Capital did not respond to requests for comment.
By the summer of 2022, Russia's economy had stabilized, the ruble had rebounded and Mr. Putin's strategy shifted.
While early in the war, companies like McDonald's had sold to local managers or local business associates, with an option to return to Russia later, such deals soon became more difficult.
Having climbed out of crisis, the government wanted to do more than just keep the doors open. It increasingly wanted to dictate the terms of every deal.
In August of that year, Mr. Putin issued a decree requiring that companies in key industries obtain his signature before selling their Russian assets. Scores of businesses, including divisions of Siemens and Caterpillar, were suddenly subject to the whims of Mr. Putin himself.
"The government was beginning to tighten up the process, and it was becoming a lot more challenging," said Laura Brank, a lawyer at Dechert helping Western companies to exit. "I was telling clients we'd better get moving quickly."
For most companies trying to leave Russia, the gatekeepers operate out of a gray government building near Red Square. Eleven days after the war began, Mr. Putin empaneled a special "subcommission" there to review requests to sell.
Mr. Putin's longtime finance minister, Anton G. Siluanov, leads the subcommission, which includes officials from the Kremlin, the central bank and key ministries.
They decide whether companies can leave and under what terms.
Once a company has struck a deal with a buyer, the negotiations often begin again -- this time in secret, between the buyer and one of the Russian government ministries. The seller is largely excluded. That process, lawyers say, often ends with a lower sale price and at times a new buyer. The deal then goes to the subcommission. Sometimes, deals fall through after months of silence.
Internal minutes, reviewed by The Times, show that the subcommission scrutinizes even the smallest details. In one meeting last year, the panel approved the $ 59,000 sale of a tiny apartment owned by the Finnish tire company Nokian.
The subcommission wields enormous power. Minutes show that it rejected a proposal by the American electronics company Honeywell to sell its factories until an assessment proved that the Russian buyer was getting a 50 percent discount.
Despite the bureaucracy, businesspeople have jockeyed behind the scenes for the most lucrative assets, often appealing directly to Mr. Putin.
Such was the case in the summer of 2022, when Mondi, a British-Austrian paper company, found a buyer for one of Russia's largest mills and sought government approval to sell.
As the deal came together, one of Mr. Putin's old K.G.B. buddies, Sergei V. Chemezov, appeared. He wrote a letter asking that the president steer the mill toward a group of investors, including the state-owned firm he runs. He even suggested a way to structure the deal to get around Western sanctions. The Times reviewed a copy of the letter.
Neither Mr. Chemezov nor the state-owned company responded to requests for comment.
Mr. Chemezov's deal never happened, but neither did Mondi's original agreement. The subcommission put the mill in the hands of a Moscow property developer for significantly less than the original price.
Abroad, Professor Sonnenfeld and others kept up the pressure. More than 200 companies had earned "F" grades on his list. Professor Sonnenfeld testified before Congress in November 2022. Remaining in Russia, he said, was tantamount to supporting the government.
But under Mr. Putin's rules, leaving also directly benefited the government and, in turn, the war.
This year, the parent company of Ikea sold its Russian malls to a state-controlled bank. Nokian sold its operation to an oil company owned by a Russian regional government. The Russian operations of Nissan, Renault and Toyota were taken over by a state company.
The Russian government has looked to use former Western auto factories to produce vehicles, yachts and private jets for the state-owned luxury brand Aurus, according to an internal Trade Ministry document obtained by The Times.
Neither the Trade nor Finance Ministries responded to requests for comment.
Mr. Putin also found a way to bring money straight into state coffers.
Early on, foreign deals were subjected to what the government called a "voluntary tax" -- required for the privilege of taking money out of Russia in a lump sum. Companies that opted not to pay the tax would receive their payouts in installments.
But by early this year, Mr. Putin had stopped giving them the choice. Companies had to pay the tax, and they still might get their money in installments.
The Kremlin also made explicit what had been implied since the Kinross deal: Companies were required to sell for at least a 50 percent markdown.
By 2023, the landscape had become unknowable. The Kremlin constantly changed the rules and seemed to be always demanding more. Companies including Unilever announced that they would rather remain in Russia than have their assets end up in the government's hands.
Against that backdrop, executives at Heineken and Carlsberg were still negotiating with prospective buyers this year when Mr. Putin awarded himself even greater powers.
The Russian government, he decreed in April, could seize foreign assets and put them under the temporary oversight of whomever it liked. Companies now risked being seized outright.
Heineken reached a deal that month and the buyer, a Kazakh businessman, requested government approval. Carlsberg executives followed suit, planning to sell to Arnest, the Russian aerosol maker that had recently snapped up the highly profitable drinks-packaging business of the U.S.-based Ball Corporation.
Both brewers felt confident that, more than a year after announcing plans to leave Russia, they would finally do so.
In July, Mr. Putin blindsided Carlsberg executives by seizing the company and placing it in the hands of his longtime associate and judo friend, Taimuraz Bolloev.
Carlsberg was an attractive target. The company controlled the iconic Russian beer brand Baltika and had recently valued its Russian operation at about $ 3 billion. Its sales application had revealed that it was sitting on a half-billion dollars in cash.
In another twist, Russian officials also rejected Heineken's deal. According to the people close to the negotiations, the authorities steered the business toward Arnest -- a consolation, perhaps, for having lost the far more lucrative Carlsberg.
The deal went through for a single euro and the promise to repay $ 100 million in debt.
For Carlsberg executives, the saga was far from over. Mr. Bolloev, they said, has pressured them to sign over the company permanently.
"It would require that we literally did a deal with Putin and his administration, creating a legitimate transaction where they could take over our business for basically close to nothing," Jacob Aarup-Andersen, the Carlsberg chief executive, said in an interview last month. "We just couldn't do that."
Within weeks, the Russian authorities had arrested two company employees and raided their homes. This month, Russian news outlets reported, Mr. Bolloev asked the authorities to nationalize the company.
Dmitri A. Medvedev, the former president who is the deputy chairman of Russia's security council, expressed no sympathy for companies trying to move money out of the country and take it back to the very countries arming Ukraine.
He taunted Carlsberg, thanking them for padding the Russian budget.
"A strong budget means help for the front," he wrote last month. "In this regard, the senseless Danes also contribute to modern Russian weapons."
Oleg Matsnev, Alina Lobzina and Anton Troianovski contributed reporting.Photo editing by Sarah Eckinger. Additional production by Rumsey Taylor.Image credits: Ball, Miroslav Chaloupka/CTK Photo, via Alamy; Carlsberg, Andrey Rudakov/Bloomberg; Toyota, Igor Russak/Reuters; Stars Coffee, Alexander Zemlianichenko/Associated Press; Carlsberg, Kristian Tuxen Ladegaard Berg/Imago Images, via Reuters; Exxonmobil, Brandon Bell/Getty Images; Heineken, Piroschka Van De Wouw/Reuters; Henkel, Ina Fassbender/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images; H&M, Evgenia Novozhenina; Ikea, Evgenia Novozhenina/Reuters; KFC, Alexander Sayganov/SOPA Images, via Associated Press; Kinross, Mark Blinch/Reuters; Krispy Kreme, Justin Sullivan/Getty Images; Kone, Fabian Bimmer/Reuters; McDonald's, Evgenia Novozhenina/Reuters; Mercedes Benz, Yuri Kochetkov/EPA, via Shutterstock; Mondi, Stoyan Nenov/Reuters; Nissan, Igor Russak/Reuters; OBI, Maxim Shemetov/Reuters; Otis, Sundry Photography/Alamy; Renault, Reuters; Sephora, Scott Olson/Getty Images; Starbucks, Federico Parra/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images; Toyota, Yuri Kochetkov/EPA, via Shutterstock; ZARA, Yuri Kochetkov/EPA, via Shutterstock; Rostic's, Maxim Shemetov/Reuters; Krunchy Dream, Evgenia Novozhenina/Reuters; Vkusno i Tochka, Natalia Kolesnikova/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images; Stars Coffee, Maxim Shemetov/Reuters; MAAG, Alexander Zemlianichenko/Associated Press; Vladimir Pontanin, Maxim Shemetov/Reuters; Leonid Mikhelson, Pool photo by Ramil Sitdikov/Sputnik; Timati and Anton Pinsky, Maxim Shemetov/Reuters; Ivan Tavrin, Olivia Harris/Reuters; Armen Sarkisyan, Alexander Demianchuk/TASS, via Imago Images.

Subject: Consumers; Purchasing; Asset acquisitions; Coffeehouses; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Asset acquisitions Coffeehouses Breweries

Location: Russia; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Starbucks Corp; NAICS: 722515

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/12/17/world/putin-companies-economy-boycott-elites-benefit-ukraine-war.html

Title: How Putin Turned a Western Boycott Into a War Chest Bonanza:   [World ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 19, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2903229854

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-putin-turned-western-boycott-into-war-chest/docview/2903229854/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Egypt's Leader Receives Lift In Gaza Chaos: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Yee, Vivian

Publication info: Yee, Vivian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/egypts-leader-receives-lift-gaza-chaos/docview/2900155722/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt grew increasingly unpopular amid a deep economic crisis. But the war in neighboring Gaza has given him a vital role on the international stage.
President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt woke up on Oct. 7 remarkably unpopular for someone considered a shoo-in for a third term -- guaranteed by his authoritarian grip on the country to dominate elections that begin on Sunday, but badly damaged by a slow-motion economic collapse.
The ensuing weeks have eclipsed all of that, with war displacing financial worries as the top item on many Egyptians' minds, lips and social media feeds. For Western partners and Persian Gulf backers, the crisis has also highlighted Egypt's vital role as a conduit for humanitarian aid to Gaza and a mediator between Israel and Hamas, the armed Palestinian group that led the attack on Israel on Oct. 7 and set off the war.
Mr. el-Sisi, a former general with a knack for outlasting setbacks, appeared to have caught yet another break, one that has allowed him to position himself as a champion of the Palestinian cause at home and an indispensable regional leader abroad.
In Cairo these days, a widespread boycott of Western companies associated with support for Israel has transformed the simple act of serving a Pepsi into a serious faux pas. Egyptians struggling to cover the basics after nearly two years of record-setting inflation have opened their wallets to help victims of the Gaza war.
And in a country where protests have been banned for years, hundreds of people have braved arrest to march in solidarity with the Palestinians.
The three-day presidential vote that started on Sunday is expected to rubber-stamp Mr. el-Sisi's hold for another six-year term: None of his three challengers stand a chance of unseating him. Barring a few lonely signs, the face looming over what seemed like every street in Cairo from billboards, banners and posters this weekend was Mr. el-Sisi's, and none of the 20 eligible voters interviewed around Cairo on Sunday were familiar with the other candidates.
A government news release proclaimed an "unprecedented high turnout" as buses sponsored by pro-Sisi parties dropped voters off at polling stations by the dozens and as companies gave employees time off to vote.
Nevertheless, the president will need to steer carefully, analysts and diplomats said. The economic crisis that had punctured Mr. el-Sisi's aura of invulnerability is still bleeding households, companies and the nation's finances. Gaza or no Gaza, Egypt is expected to devalue its currency, the pound, after the election, promising further pain for its people.
"Most of us are married and have kids, and now the 200 pounds in my hand feels like 20," said Ahmad Hassan, 43, a security guard from the working-class neighborhood of Imbaba. Like many others interviewed on Sunday, he said voting would be useless. "I want change," he said. "And with me or without me, he'll win anyway."
With public support for the Palestinians at a high, many Egyptians are alert to any sign that their government may be complicit in the suffering in Gaza, whether by acceding to Israeli restrictions on the aid flowing from Egypt into the territory or proposals to move Gazans into Egypt in exchange for aid -- an idea that is widely opposed across the Arab world.
"The government definitely doesn't want to test the patience of the Egyptian people, not when it comes to Palestine," said Hesham Sallam, a scholar of Arab politics at Stanford's Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law.
Like many in Cairo these days, Aya Khalil, 34, a private art teacher, said she no longer buys anything before checking its provenance against online lists of Western brands blacklisted for their support for Israel.
"Me boycotting these brands is just a drop in the ocean, but I'm doing the only thing I can do," she said.
Like many other Egyptians, she questioned whether the government was doing enough to pump aid into Gaza. Egypt blames Israel for limiting the aid, but calls to end the 16-year-old joint Israeli-Egyptian blockade of Gaza and for Egypt to stop giving Israel any say over Egypt's border crossing with Gaza have grown in recent weeks.
Yet Egypt cannot afford to alienate Israel, with which it has developed a strong, if hush-hush, security partnership in the Sinai Peninsula, or to agitate Western backers, particularly when it needs all the financial support it can get.
Many Egyptians despair of the dire economic picture and borrow month after month just to pay for the basics. Sugar recently doubled in price in some places, and inflation, already running above 35 percent annually, is expected to worsen if the government devalues the currency.
The currency's official value has already fallen by half since the crisis began in early 2022. It is worth far less on the black market.
Before Hamas's attack on Israel, signs of Mr. el-Sisi's growing unpopularity were unmistakable.
An upstart challenger, Ahmed al-Tantawy, was drawing support around Egypt with criticisms of the president that few others here had dared voice since he began throttling dissent in recent years. Activists and liberals spoke expectantly of Mr. el-Sisi's eventual downfall. Sensing strength in numbers, many Egyptians no longer bothered to lower their voices before trashing their president.
Abroad, the International Monetary Fund and wealthy gulf benefactors had grown impatient waiting for Egypt to make good on its promises of economic reform, and no calculator could figure how the country would avoid defaulting on its $ 165 billion in foreign debts.
Washington was in an uproar over accusations that Egypt had bribed a senior U.S. senator in return for official favors and sensitive information, causing Congress to block an extra $ 235 million in military aid for the Sisi government.
Within days of Israel's assault on Gaza in retaliation for the Oct. 7 attacks, however, Mr. el-Sisi's wobble appeared to have steadied.
"With every war that comes, it's a good chance for him to make it his excuse for the economic crisis," said Salah Ali, an engineer from the southern city of Aswan employed to build what is supposed to be the president's marquee legacy project, a costly new capital city that has helped swell Egypt's debt.
"What do you mean, 'elections'?" he added, sarcastically, echoing a widespread belief that the outcome is predetermined, despite assertions from a government spokesman, Diaa Rashwan, that the vote shows Egypt to be on an "earnest path toward genuine political pluralism."
The one Sisi challenger who had generated some momentum, Mr. al-Tantawy, was pushed out of the presidential race after government agents violently prevented his supporters from registering enough endorsements to put him on the ballot just before the war erupted, his campaign said, a headline quickly buried by the avalanche of news from Gaza. On trial for what rights group call trumped-up charges, he has said 137 members of his campaign have been detained.
The three other men who did wind up on the ballot are little known. Even the one with some opposition support has refrained from all but the mildest critiques of the president, perhaps fearing the fate of independent-minded candidates in the 2018 election, when all serious challengers to Mr. el-Sisi were arrested.
Analysts say Egypt is dragging its feet over meeting the conditions of the $ 3 billion I.M.F. bailout granted last year. But the fund's director, Kristalina Georgieva, has said that the I.M.F. is "very likely" to bolster the amount of the loan anyway in light of the war.
The European Union, fearing another migration crisis, is likewise accelerating some $ 10 billion in funding for Egypt.
And liberal activists, Sisi supporters and many people in between have found themselves in a rare moment of unity, condemning Israel's siege and bombardment of Gaza and rejecting the idea of Gazans' being forced into Egypt's Sinai Peninsula, which borders the territory.
Many fear such displacement would mean the Palestinians would lose their own land forever and bring Hamas into a historically and emotionally charged part of Egypt, eventually drawing Egypt into a war with Israel.
Mr. el-Sisi was quick to read the room.
"The aim of the stifling blockade on the strip, of cutting water and power and preventing the entry of aid, is to push the Palestinians toward Egypt," Mr. el-Sisi said in a joint news conference with the German chancellor on Oct. 18, one of several times he has made clear that the answer is no.
"We reject the liquidation of the Palestinian cause and the forced displacement in Sinai."
But Mr. el-Sisi was also strategically harnessing Egyptians' fury and grief over the war, analysts and diplomats say.
On Oct. 20, groups close to the government organized a day of nationwide pro-Palestinian demonstrations that the government said drew hundreds of thousands of people, a figure that could not be independently verified.
Extensively covered on state media, the rallies were festooned with banners that included Mr. el-Sisi's photo next to images of Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa Mosque -- a less-than-subtle attempt to yoke the Palestinian cause to Mr. el-Sisi's.
"Without Sisi, we'd be doomed," said Reda Saad, 42, an employee at Egypt's state-owned gas company who had brought her four children to one rally, when asked how she rated his handling of the crisis.
She said she was "still angry" about Egypt's economic meltdown but had put that aside in the face of Gaza's suffering.
"That's one thing," she said, "and this is another."
But dozens of people were arrested in separate marches the same day in which demonstrators chanted anti-Sisi slogans, making clear that government attempts to channel pro-Palestinian passions risk churning up domestic discontents.
"I'm just waiting for him to resign or leave," said Omar, a government employee in El-Arish, near the Gaza border. He asked to be identified only by his first name to avoid retaliation.
Until then, he said, "We'll keep living this terrible reality."
Mourad Hijazy contributed reporting.
Mourad Hijazy contributed reporting.
Photograph A campaign poster in Cairo for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt. The country's three-day presidential vote started on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED DESOUKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A8) This article appeared in print on page A1, A8.

Subject: Military aid; Economic crisis; Palestinian people; Economic reform; Activism; Demonstrations & protests; Voters; Voter behavior; Elections; Humanitarian aid; Political leadership; Military engagements

Business indexing term: Subject: Economic crisis Economic reform

Location: Sinai Peninsula; Israel; Egypt; Gaza Strip

People: el-Sisi, Abdel-Fattah

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/10/world/middleeast/egypt-election-gaza-war.html

Title: Egypt's Leader Receives Lift In Gaza Chaos:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 11, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2900155722

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/egypts-leader-receives-lift-gaza-chaos/docview/2900155722/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Israel-Hamas War Has Buoyed Egypt’s Leader Ahead of Presidential Vote

Author: Yee, Vivian

Publication info: Yee, Vivian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israel-hamas-war-has-buoyed-egypt-s-leader-ahead/docview/2900116935/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
CAIRO — President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi of Egypt woke up on Oct. 7 remarkably unpopular for someone considered a shoo-in for a third term in office — guaranteed by his authoritarian grip on the country to dominate elections that begin Sunday, but badly damaged by a slow-motion economic collapse.
The ensuing weeks have eclipsed all of that, with war displacing financial worries as the top item on many Egyptians’ minds, lips and social media feeds. For Western partners and Persian Gulf backers, the crisis has also highlighted Egypt’s vital role as a conduit for humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip and a mediator between Israel and Hamas, the armed Palestinian group that led the attack on Israel on Oct. 7 and set off the war.
El-Sissi, a former general with a knack for outlasting setbacks, appeared to have caught yet another break, one that has allowed him to position himself as a champion of the Palestinian cause at home and an indispensable regional leader abroad.
In Cairo these days, a widespread boycott of Western companies associated with support for Israel has transformed the simple act of serving a Pepsi into a serious faux pas. Egyptians struggling to cover the basics after nearly two years of record-setting inflation have opened their wallets to help victims of the Israel-Hamas war.
And in a country where protests have been banned for years, hundreds of people have braved arrest to march in solidarity with the Palestinians.
The three-day presidential vote that started Sunday is expected to rubber-stamp el-Sissi’s hold for another six-year term: None of his three challengers stand a chance of unseating him. Barring a few lonely signs, the face looming over what seemed like every street in Cairo from billboards, banners and posters this weekend was el-Sissi’s, and none of the 20 eligible voters interviewed around Cairo on Sunday were familiar with the other candidates.
A government news release proclaimed an “unprecedented high turnout” as buses sponsored by pro-el-Sissi parties dropped voters off at polling stations by the dozens and as companies gave employees time off to vote.
Nevertheless, the president will need to steer carefully, analysts and diplomats said. The economic crisis that had punctured el-Sissi’s aura of invulnerability is still bleeding households, companies and the nation’s finances. Gaza or no Gaza, Egypt is expected to devalue its currency, the pound, after the election, promising further pain for its people.
“Most of us are married and have kids, and now the 200 pounds in my hand feels like 20,” said Ahmad Hassan, 43, a security guard from the working-class neighborhood of Imbaba. Like many others interviewed Sunday, he said voting would be useless. “I want change,” he said. “And with me or without me, he’ll win anyway.”
With public support for the Palestinians at a high, many Egyptians are alert to any sign that their government may be complicit in the suffering in Gaza, whether by acceding to Israeli restrictions on the aid flowing from Egypt into the territory or proposals to move Palestinians from Gaza into Egypt in exchange for aid — an idea that is widely opposed across the Arab world.
“The government definitely doesn’t want to test the patience of the Egyptian people, not when it comes to Palestine,” said Hesham Sallam, a scholar of Arab politics at Stanford’s Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law.
Like many in Cairo these days, Aya Khalil, 34, a private art teacher, said she no longer buys anything before checking its provenance against online lists of Western brands blacklisted for their support for Israel.
“Me boycotting these brands is just a drop in the ocean, but I’m doing the only thing I can do,” she said.
Like many other Egyptians, she questioned whether the government was doing enough to pump aid into Gaza. Egypt blames Israel for limiting the aid, but calls to end the 16-year-old joint Israeli-Egyptian blockade of Gaza and for Egypt to stop giving Israel any say over Egypt’s border crossing with Gaza have grown in recent weeks.
Yet Egypt cannot afford to alienate Israel, with which it has developed a strong, if hush-hush, security partnership in the Sinai Peninsula, or to agitate Western backers, particularly when it needs all the financial support it can get.
Many Egyptians despair of the dire economic picture and borrow month after month just to pay for the basics. Sugar recently doubled in price in some places, and inflation, already running above 35% annually, is expected to worsen if the government devalues the currency.
The currency’s official value has fallen by half since the crisis began in early 2022. It is worth far less on the black market.
Before Hamas’ attack on Israel, signs of el-Sissi’s growing unpopularity were unmistakable.
An upstart challenger, Ahmed al-Tantawy, was drawing support around Egypt with criticisms of the president that few others here had dared voice since he began throttling dissent in recent years. Activists and liberals spoke expectantly of el-Sissi’s eventual downfall. Sensing strength in numbers, many Egyptians no longer bothered to lower their voices before trashing their president.
Abroad, the International Monetary Fund and wealthy Gulf benefactors had grown impatient waiting for Egypt to make good on its promises of economic reform, and no calculator could figure how the country would avoid defaulting on its $165 billion in foreign debts.
Washington was in an uproar over accusations that Egypt had bribed a senior U.S. senator in return for official favors and sensitive information, causing Congress to block an extra $235 million in military aid for the el-Sissi government.
Within days of Israel’s assault on Gaza in retaliation for the Oct. 7 attacks, however, el-Sissi’s wobble appeared to have steadied.
“With every war that comes, it’s a good chance for him to make it his excuse for the economic crisis,” said Salah Ali, an engineer from the southern city of Aswan employed to build what is supposed to be the president’s marquee legacy project, a costly new capital city that has helped swell Egypt’s debt.
“What do you mean, ‘elections’?” he added, sarcastically, echoing a widespread belief that the outcome is predetermined, despite assertions from a government spokesperson, Diaa Rashwan, that the vote shows Egypt to be on an “earnest path toward genuine political pluralism.”
The one el-Sissi challenger who had generated some momentum, al-Tantawy, was pushed out of the presidential race after government agents violently prevented his supporters from registering enough endorsements to put him on the ballot just before the war erupted, his campaign said, a headline quickly buried by the avalanche of news from Gaza. On trial for what rights group call trumped-up charges, he has said 137 members of his campaign have been detained.
The three other men who did wind up on the ballot are little known. Even the one with some opposition support has refrained from all but the mildest critiques of the president, perhaps fearing the fate of independent-minded candidates in the 2018 election, when all serious challengers to el-Sissi were arrested.
Analysts say Egypt is dragging its feet over meeting the conditions of the $3 billion IMF bailout granted last year. But the fund’s director, Kristalina Georgieva, has said that the IMF is “very likely” to bolster the amount of the loan anyway in light of the war.
The European Union, fearing another migration crisis, is likewise accelerating some $10 billion in funding for Egypt.
And liberal activists, el-Sissi supporters and many people in between have found themselves in a rare moment of unity, condemning Israel’s siege and bombardment of Gaza and rejecting the idea of residents of Gaza being forced into Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula, which borders the territory.
Many fear such displacement would mean the Palestinians would lose their own land forever and bring Hamas into a historically and emotionally charged part of Egypt, eventually drawing Egypt into a war with Israel.
El-Sissi was quick to read the room.
“The aim of the stifling blockade on the strip, of cutting water and power and preventing the entry of aid, is to push the Palestinians toward Egypt,” el-Sissi said in a joint news conference with the German chancellor on Oct. 18, one of several times he has made clear that the answer is no.
“We reject the liquidation of the Palestinian cause and the forced displacement in Sinai.”
But el-Sissi was also strategically harnessing Egyptians’ fury and grief over the war, analysts and diplomats say.
On Oct. 20, groups close to the government organized a day of nationwide pro-Palestinian demonstrations that the government said drew hundreds of thousands of people, a figure that could not be independently verified.
Extensively covered on state media, the rallies were festooned with banners that included el-Sissi’s photo next to images of Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa Mosque — a less-than-subtle attempt to yoke the Palestinian cause to el-Sissi’s.
“Without Sissi, we’d be doomed,” said Reda Saad, 42, an employee at Egypt’s state-owned gas company who had brought her four children to one rally, when asked how she rated his handling of the crisis.
She said she was “still angry” about Egypt’s economic meltdown but had put that aside in the face of Gaza’s suffering.
“That’s one thing,” she said, “and this is another.”
But dozens of people were arrested in separate marches the same day in which demonstrators chanted anti-el Sissi slogans, making clear that government attempts to channel pro-Palestinian passions risk churning up domestic discontents.
“I’m just waiting for him to resign or leave,” said Omar, a government employee in al-Arish, near the Gaza border. He asked to be identified only by his first name to avoid retaliation.
Until then, he said, “We’ll keep living this terrible reality.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Military aid; Economic crisis; Palestinian people; Economic reform; Activism; Demonstrations & protests; Voters; Elections; Voter behavior; Israel Hamas War-2023

Business indexing term: Subject: Economic crisis Economic reform

Location: Sinai Peninsula; Israel; Egypt; Gaza Strip

Company / organization: Name: Hamas; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: Hamas; Endorsements; Currency; United States; Economic Conditions And Trends; Stimulus (Economic); Black Markets; Al Aqsa Mosque (Jerusalem); Compensation For Damages (Law); Voice And Speech; Terrorism; Egypt; Elections; Palestinians; Israel; Imbaba (Egypt); European Union; Pepsico Inc; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Politics And Government; Humanitarian Aid; Credit And Debt; Records And Achievements; Israel Gaza War (2023 ); Yee, Vivian; Europe; Persian Gulf; Embargoes And Sanctions; Germany; Aswan (Egypt); Defense And Military Forces; Boycotts; United States Politics And Government; World; International Monetary Fund; Law And Legislation; International Relations; Refugees And Displaced Persons; Foreign Aid; Polls And Public Opinion; Sinai Peninsula (Egypt); Gaza Strip; Labor And Jobs; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; United States International Relations; Jerusalem (Israel); Ca iro (Egypt); Mosques; Washington (Dc); Campaign Finance

Title: Israel-Hamas War Has Buoyed Egypt’s Leader Ahead of Presidential Vote

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-10T20:27:51Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: Engl ish

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2900116935

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/israel-hamas-war-has-buoyed-egypt-s-leader-ahead/docview/2900116935/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Midtown, a Shimmering Snowflake Gets a Cool Update: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Barron, James

Publication info: Barron, James. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/midtown-shimmering-snowflake-gets-cool-update/docview/2899950929/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: This is about a snowflake that has had a little cosmetic work done.
It's not a snowflake that dances down from the sky, shimmering like a diamond in the pale wintry light, only to melt after morphing into grimy slush. This snowflake shimmers from 50 feet up. It is the giant illuminated snowflake that floats over the intersection of Fifth Avenue and 57th Street.
"It needed to be refreshed," said George Stonbely, the advertising entrepreneur who oversees the snowflake.
So its 16,500 crystal light fixtures were cleaned before it was turned on for the season last weekend. More than 600 double-sided miniature LEDs were installed, tripling the number on the side branches. The halogen lights around the steel-and-chrome core were replaced with projection LEDs. And the core was polished.
The all-LED configuration gave the snowflake some brand-new razzle-dazzle, with light shows for a couple of minutes at the beginning of each hour. Mr. Stonebly said the lights were programmable in ways that were not possible before, when they was limited to on and off -- and only one color, white.
But Mr. Stonbely, who put more than 60 Spectacolor signs there and in other places around the world, starting in the 1970s, said it will not an eye-popping kaleidoscope. "We want to introduce color slowly and not make it like what I've done in Times Square," he said. "This is more subtle."
As in past years, the snowflake is anchored from the four buildings on the corners, suspended and stabilized by cables. The snowflake was designed to withstand wind and rain, as well as the buildup of ice.
Mr. Stonbely said the power-generating electricity comes from one of the four buildings.
The snowflake is the second to occupy the spot. The original was by Douglas Leigh, another creator of attention-getting displays. Mr. Leigh was behind famous installations in Midtown, like the smoking Camel sign in Times Square, the Super Suds detergent sign with 3,000 "floating" soap bubbles, and a 120-foot Pepsi-Cola waterfall above a clothing store.
Mr. Leigh died in 1999 at 92, 15 years after the snowflake became an end-of-the-year regular on Fifth Avenue. He willed the snowflake to Mr. Stonbely, who transferred ownership to a foundation and dedicated it to UNICEF, which he said had raised more than $ 65 million over the years through the annual Snowflake Ball. Now the foundation has licensed the snowflake to a new nonprofit that will raise money for humanitarian organizations and arts groups. Mr. Stonbely has worked with the Fifth Avenue Association to line up donors to support the refurbishment and installation of the snowflake.
The snowflake's lighting last weekend came as the association coordinated the closing of an 11-block stretch of the avenue from noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays through Dec. 17 under the city's Open Streets program.
There will be jazz performers and food vendors against a backdrop of 150 fir trees along the sidewalks. Passers-by will have something to smell as they look up at the snowflake: The trees are scented.
Photograph The snowflake, shown here in 2008, was designed to withstand wind and rain, as well as the buildup of ice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON DECROW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page MB6.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/03/nyregion/10snowflake-print.html

Title: In Midtown, a Shimmering Snowflake Gets a Cool Update:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: MB.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 10, 2023

Section: MB

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899950929

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/midtown-shimmering-snowflake-gets-cool-update/docview/2899950929/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Norman Lear Embraced Controversy On 'Maude': [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Zuckerman, Esther

Publication info: Zuckerman, Esther. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norman-lear-embraced-controversy-on-maude/docview/2899582802/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A two-part November 1972 episode of "Maude," in which the title character decides to get an abortion, still seems radical, particularly after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade.
Norman Lear, who died this week at 101, left behind a legacy of groundbreaking television. But there was perhaps no hour of TV on his lengthy résumé more controversial than a two-part episode of the CBS sitcom "Maude," from the show's first season.
Titled "Maude's Dilemma," it aired on consecutive weeks in November 1972 and follows the 47-year-old Maude, a grandmother played by Bea Arthur, as she learns she is pregnant and decides ultimately to get an abortion. In the aftermath, advertisers dropped the show and network affiliates refused to air reruns.
"Maude's Dilemma" originally aired two months before the Roe v. Wade decision made abortion legal nationwide -- it was then already legal in New York, where the series was set. More than five decades later, the episode still seems radical, particularly in an era after the Supreme Court overturned Roe, in 2022.
"It's completely relevant to everything we're going through now," said Tracey Scott Wilson, a TV writer and professor in the radio, television and film department of Northwestern University. "What is actually most surprising about it is that there was actually an ability to have a conversation about it. And I think that's what makes Norman Lear and his shows so relevant today."
Abortion stories on network television are still few and far between. More recently there have been plots involving the subject on shows like "Everwood," "Friday Night Lights," "Scandal," "Jane the Virgin," and "Crazy Ex-Girlfriend."
But comparatively, "Maude" had a bigger audience. It was the fourth highest rated show in America for the 1972-1973 season according to Nielsen; CBS estimated that as many as 65 million people watched at least one part of "Maude's Dilemma," either during its first broadcast or in rerun the following summer, the Los Angeles Times reported.
Part 1 begins with Maude returning home having just learned that she is pregnant. She isn't happy about it, especially given her age, saying that "at age 62, I'll be the mother of an Eagle Scout." Her daughter, Carol (Adrienne Barbeau), encourages her to get an abortion, but Maude is initially resistant to the idea.
"Mother, I don't understand your hesitancy," Carol tells her. "When they made it a law you were for it."
Maude replies: "I wasn't pregnant then."
Maude at first decides to have the baby because she thinks it is what her husband, Walter (Bill Macy), desires. When he finally tells her he wanted her to go through with the pregnancy only because he thought that's what she wanted, they hug and she resolves to have the abortion.
"It didn't feel like an after-school special," Wilson said.
Initially, Lear had proposed that the abortion story line be for Maude's neighbor Vivian (Rue McClanahan). Susan Harris, who wrote the episode -- she and the writers Austin and Irma Kalish shared credit for the story -- told Entertainment Weekly in 2018: "I thought it was a wonderful idea. I thought it was something that absolutely should be addressed, and I liked tackling issues as well as entertaining." But after she gave Lear the initial script, she added, Lear thought it was "too good for Vivian," and they decided to hand it off to Maude.
"Maude" often tackled hot button issues throughout its six season run. Speaking just ahead of the show's final episode, in 1978, Arthur told The New York Times, "The first year it seemed to me that every single week we were doing some controversial subject -- abortion, alcoholism, pot."
According to a 1992 report from the Los Angeles Times, CBS nearly balked, however, before the taping of "Maude's Dilemma." Lear held his ground.
As Barbeau recalled in an email, "We filmed the first episode in the summer before 'Maude' premiered, and we were told if the show wasn't a success in the ratings, they wouldn't air the first episode and we wouldn't film the second."
Initially, only two CBS affiliates refused to air the show, but when the rerun was scheduled to air in August 1973, there were more widespread objections. After the first episode re-aired, The New York Times reported that 39 of CBS's 159 affiliates had refused to carry it. Pepsi, General Mills, the J.B. Williams Company and others had pulled their ads, and the episode ran without sponsorship.
"This proves there's a certain degree of cowardice in the American business community," Lear told The New York Times in 1973, about the sponsor withdrawals. "A few letters from pressure groups can make advertisers panic."
A spokesman for the Catholic Communications Foundation said that CBS's choice to re-air "Maude's Dilemma" was "a willful insult to the American televiewer." But Arthur said the mail she had received about the situation was more nuanced.
"I can't call it 'hate mail,' although there were a few that said 'Die, die,' but most were intelligent people who were deeply offended and very emotional about it," she told the Los Angeles Times. "I think the problem was I had become some sort of Joan of Arc for the middle-aged woman. People were saying it was so refreshing, a woman who came along who was a real woman, not like Donna Reed."
"I think when I came out with this," Arthur added, it was viewed by those fans as "almost treasonous, a personal attack."
Watching the episode now, Maude's advanced maternal age still stands out. The decision to get an abortion is not framed as one for the inexperienced. "Now I appreciate it so much more that she can be a very grown woman; she can be a middle-aged woman approaching menopause and also dealing with this," said Jennifer Keishin Armstrong, a TV critic and author of "When Women Invented Television." "She's been married for a long time, she's talking with her partner about it and they're making a really clear decision. Which is bold -- it's still upsetting to people."
Lear said last year in a TV special honoring his 100th birthday that there was dissent about Maude's decision even within his own family. "I have a glorious daughter who disagrees with every bit of that," he said. "This is a glorious young woman in thousands of ways, but she will disagree about that loud and clear."
But the ability to leave space for disagreement while firmly taking a stance was one of Lear's specialties. Wilson said the humanity of the conversation is what has been lacking in discussions of abortion, particularly regarding the reversal of Roe v. Wade.
"Even though we knew it was coming, none of the conversations were as human as what we saw in that 'Maude' episode," Wilson said.
"Maude wasn't making a choice as a left-wing woman," she added. "She was making a choice as a woman, and it was very universal that this is something that is going to happen whether you're Republican or whether you're Democrat or whether you're conservative, whatever. This is a choice that women have to make and women should be allowed to make."
Photograph Bea Arthur and Bill Macy in "Maude's Dilemma," a two-part episode that drew complaints and withdrawals from sponsors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (C4) This article appeared in print on page C1, C4.

Subject: Womens health; Middle age; Abortion

Location: Los Angeles California; New York; United States--US

People: Arthur, Bea

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Los Angeles Times; NAICS: 513110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/07/arts/television/norman-lear-maude-abortion.html

Title: Norman Lear Embraced Controversy On 'Maude':   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 9, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2899582802

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/norman-lear-embraced-controversy-on-maude/docview/2899582802/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-12-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Finding Money to Fight Climate Crisis Is Big Obstacle at U.N. Summit: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Friedman, Lisa; Sengupta, Somini

Publication info: Friedman, Lisa; Sengupta, Somini. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/finding-money-fight-climate-crisis-is-big/docview/2897318309/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Money is a very big sticking point at this year's United Nations climate summit. Part of the problem is that American promises often go unmet.
When there's a global crisis, wealthy countries tend to find money. In the United States, that was the case for the coronavirus pandemic. And for military aid to allies like Ukraine.
But the global climate crisis? It's complicated.
On Saturday, Vice President Kamala Harris visited the United Nations climate summit in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, and promised $ 3 billion for the Green Climate Fund, which benefits poorer nations. But Biden administration officials already are acknowledging it will be a struggle to persuade Congress to approve the money.
Then, on Sunday, John Kerry, President Biden's climate envoy, announced at the talks a new carbon credit initiative in which more than a dozen major companies including Walmart, Pepsi and McDonald's will help developing countries pivot away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy. The creation of the program is a tacit acknowledgment that governments simply aren't putting up the trillions of dollars needed to fund the energy transition.
One of the big tests facing this summit, known as COP28, is whether it will fare any better than earlier climate talks at shoring up anything close to the money that's needed.
None of what is being discussed and promised at the meeting -- whether it's tripling of renewable energy, adapting to the hazards of a hotter world, or compensating countries for the irreparable losses of climate change -- can happen without huge sums of money. Not to mention the mounting frustration of leaders from the global south over unkept promises of aid. Money is crucial to restoring confidence.
"The world needs long-term money," the prime minister of Barbados, Mia Mottley, said on Saturday in a statement on behalf of a coalition of climate-vulnerable countries. "We give thanks to the progress made but it does nothing but assuage consciences. Choosing between people and the planet is a false choice. The world has enough funds."
One of the biggest shortfalls is for funds that would help developing countries cope with climate impacts, like rising sea levels and extreme heat. A United Nations report concluded recently that rich countries had reduced their aid for climate adaptation efforts between 2020 and 2021, the most recent year for which comprehensive data is available.
All the while, the needs of those developing countries have grown sharply. Countries promised to double adaptation aid at the U.N. climate summit in Glasgow in 2021. Even if that happens, it comes nowhere close to meeting the need: an estimated $ 215 billion to $ 387 billion a year between now and 2030 for climate adaptation alone. That's 10 to 18 times as much as the current public finance flows, the United Nations report found.
The effort to triple renewable energy worldwide requires ratcheting up clean energy spending to $ 4.5 trillion in annual investment, from $ 1.8 trillion today, by 2025, according to the International Energy Agency, particularly in energy-hungry emerging economies and poor countries.
"The reality is that without much more finance flowing to developing countries, a renewables revolution will remain a mirage in the desert," said Simon Stiell, the chief of the U.N. climate change agency, at the opening of the conference. "COP28 must turn it into a reality."
This year, climate negotiations have already brought some progress. The $ 100 billion in annual climate aid that rich countries had agreed to shore up by 2020 came through, three years late. Countries approved a new fund to pay poor countries for the losses and damages they are witnessing already, but that is, for now, voluntary. Right now, there's about $ 420 million in the kitty.
Jennifer Morgan, Germany's climate envoy, said in an interview that she had detected a positive shift in the dynamics since her country announced $ 100 million for the loss-and-damage fund.
"It enabled developing countries to focus on other agenda items here," Ms. Morgan said, adding, "It builds trust with them, and this process is all about trust."
At the start of the talks last week, the United Arab Emirates, the oil-rich host, announced a new $ 30 billion fund aimed at drawing billions more in private investment, including from the world's biggest financier, BlackRock.
But the United States, the world's largest economy and the world's biggest climate polluter in historical terms, is facing intense pressure at the summit to step up its public financing.
Biden administration officials at climate summit insisted that the U.S. president is committed to securing climate aid for the developing world. Mr. Biden has pledged to deliver $ 11.4 billion annually in climate assistance by 2024, and officials this week said that the administration was on track to deliver more than $ 9 billion this year.
Much of that money is allocated through multilateral climate funds, as well as loans and other financing for clean energy projects through agencies like the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation. Over the past three years, that agency's annual climate finance commitments have grown to more than $ 3.7 billion from less than $ 500 million, the administration said in a fact sheet.
The Biden administration also put $ 1 billion into the Green Climate Fund, but only by drawing on discretionary funds within the State Department after Republicans blocked a direct allocation.
The big question for the United States now is whether a divided Congress or a future administration can deliver on the Biden administration's newest promises.
"The problem is, the U.S. is not a reliable partner," said Mohamed Adow, director of Power Shift Africa, an environmental group. "It's been three years since Biden entered the White House and we haven't seen much in terms of previous finance promises."
Republicans, who control the House, are overwhelmingly opposed to international climate aid, and have repeatedly slashed Mr. Biden's requests. Congress approved just $ 1 billion of the president's $ 11 billion request for global climate assistance for the fiscal year 2023. Former President Donald J. Trump, Mr. Biden's likely challenger for the 2024 election, pulled the United States out of the Paris Agreement and ended all payments to the Green Climate Fund.
Some lawmakers are already preparing for a fight. Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, said he believed the United States should not "spend another penny on crooked U.N. slush funds."
"We're still working to get the $ 11 billion," John Podesta, a top White House climate adviser, said. "It takes a lot of work with this current Congress to do that, but we're hard at it."
And yet the Biden administration also has made choices. When the president drew up a list of multibillion-dollar priorities in October that he said required urgent approval from Congress, he chose military aid to Israel and Ukraine, arming Taiwan and increasing security along America's southern border.
Then the White House issued a second plea: to fund natural disaster response in the United States, child care centers and high-speed internet. Money to help the world's poorest countries cope with global warming did not make the cut.
Mr. Podesta said international climate finance was not listed in that supplemental request because it was focused on "critical priorities that we think can pass this Congress, and certainly have bipartisan support, really, in both houses."
David Victor, a nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank, was more blunt.
"Transferring funds to other countries is not very popular in the United States right now," he said. He noted that the emergency aid package to Israel and Ukraine had not yet won approval because House Republicans were still negotiating over changes to U.S. border policy.
"The country has turned inward," Mr. Victor said. "It's turned populist and it is at best trying to fund these two very expensive wars. And even that is challenging."
Photograph Vice President Kamala Harris spoke at the United Nations climate summit in Dubai and promised $ 3 billion in assistance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAMRAN JEBREILI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A10.

Subject: Military aid; Clean technology; Renewable resources; Presidents; Developing countries--LDCs; Energy; Climate change

Business indexing term: Subject: Renewable resources Developing countries--LDCs

Location: United States--US; Israel; Dubai United Arab Emirates; Ukraine; United Arab Emirates

People: Harris, Kamala

Company / organization: Name: United Nations--UN; NAICS: 928120; Name: Green Climate Fund; NAICS: 924110, 926110; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/04/climate/cop28-un-climate-fund-money.html

Title: Finding Money to Fight Climate Crisis Is Big Obstacle at U.N. Summit:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 5, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2897318309

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/finding-money-fight-climate-crisis-is-big/docview/2897318309/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 5, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Finding Cash for the Climate Is Tough. Two New Pledges Show Why.

Author: Friedman, Lisa; Sengupta, Somini

Publication info: Friedman, Lisa; Sengupta, Somini. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/finding-cash-climate-is-tough-two-new-pledges/docview/2897229464/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — When there’s a global crisis, wealthy countries tend to find money. In the United States, that was the case for the coronavirus pandemic. And for military aid to allies such as Ukraine.
But the global climate crisis? It’s complicated.
On Saturday, Vice President Kamala Harris visited the United Nations climate summit in Dubai and promised $3 billion for the Green Climate Fund, which benefits poorer nations. But Biden administration officials already are acknowledging it will be a struggle to persuade Congress to approve the money.
Then, on Sunday, John Kerry, President Joe Biden’s climate envoy, announced at the talks a new carbon credit initiative in which more than a dozen major companies including Walmart, Pepsi and McDonald’s will help developing countries pivot away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy. The creation of the program is a tacit acknowledgment that governments simply aren’t putting up the trillions of dollars needed to fund the energy transition.
One of the big tests facing this summit, known as COP28, is whether it will fare any better than earlier climate talks at shoring up anything close to the money that’s needed.
None of what is being discussed and promised at the meeting — whether it’s tripling of renewable energy, adapting to the hazards of a hotter world, or compensating countries for the irreparable losses of climate change — can happen without huge sums of money. Not to mention the mounting frustration of leaders from the global south over unkept promises of aid. Money is crucial to restoring confidence.
“The world needs long-term money,” the prime minister of Barbados, Mia Mottley, said Saturday in a statement on behalf of a coalition of climate-vulnerable countries. “We give thanks to the progress made but it does nothing but assuage consciences. Choosing between people and the planet is a false choice. The world has enough funds.”
One of the biggest shortfalls is for funds that would help developing countries cope with climate impacts, like rising sea levels and extreme heat. A United Nations report concluded recently that rich countries had reduced their aid for climate adaptation efforts between 2020 and 2021, the most recent year for which comprehensive data is available.
All the while, the needs of those developing countries have grown sharply. Countries promised to double adaptation aid at the U.N. climate summit in Glasgow, Scotland, in 2021. Even if that happens, it comes nowhere close to meeting the need: an estimated $215 billion to $387 billion a year between now and 2030 for climate adaptation alone. That’s 10 to 18 times as much as the current public finance flows, the U.N. report found.
The effort to triple renewable energy worldwide requires ratcheting up clean energy spending to $4.5 trillion in annual investment, from $1.8 trillion today, by 2025, according to the International Energy Agency, particularly in energy-hungry emerging economies and poor countries.
“The reality is that without much more finance flowing to developing countries, a renewables revolution will remain a mirage in the desert,” said Simon Stiell, the chief of the U.N. climate change agency, at the opening of the conference. “COP28 must turn it into a reality.”
This year, climate negotiations have already brought some progress. The $100 billion in annual climate aid that rich countries had agreed to shore up by 2020 came through, three years late. Countries approved a new fund to pay poor countries for the losses and damages they are witnessing already, but that is, for now, voluntary. Right now, there’s about $420 million in the kitty.
Jennifer Morgan, Germany’s climate envoy, said in an interview that she had detected a positive shift in the dynamics since her country announced $100 million for the loss-and-damage fund.
“It enabled developing countries to focus on other agenda items here,” Morgan said, adding, “It builds trust with them, and this process is all about trust.”
At the start of the talks last week, the United Arab Emirates, the oil-rich host, announced a new $30 billion fund aimed at drawing billions more in private investment, including from the world’s biggest financier, BlackRock.
But the United States, the world’s largest economy and the world’s biggest climate polluter in historical terms, is facing intense pressure at the summit to step up its public financing.
Biden administration officials at the climate summit insisted that the U.S. president is committed to securing climate aid for the developing world. Biden has pledged to deliver $11.4 billion annually in climate assistance by 2024, and officials this week said that the administration was on track to deliver more than $9 billion this year.
Much of that money is allocated through multilateral climate funds, as well as loans and other financing for clean energy projects through agencies like the U.S. International Development Finance Corp. Over the past three years, that agency’s annual climate finance commitments have grown to more than $3.7 billion from less than $500 million, the administration said in a fact sheet.
The Biden administration also put $1 billion into the Green Climate Fund, but only by drawing on discretionary funds within the State Department after Republicans blocked a direct allocation.
The big question for the United States now is whether a divided Congress or a future administration can deliver on the Biden administration’s newest promises.
“The problem is, the U.S. is not a reliable partner,” said Mohamed Adow, director of Power Shift Africa, an environmental group. “It’s been three years since Biden entered the White House and we haven’t seen much in terms of previous finance promises.”
Republicans, who control the House, are overwhelmingly opposed to international climate aid, and have repeatedly slashed Biden’s requests. Congress approved just $1 billion of the president’s $11 billion request for global climate assistance for the fiscal year 2023. Former President Donald Trump, Biden’s likely challenger for the 2024 election, pulled the United States out of the Paris Agreement and ended all payments to the Green Climate Fund.
Some lawmakers are already preparing for a fight. Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyo., said he believed the United States should not “spend another penny on crooked U.N. slush funds.”
“We’re still working to get the $11 billion,” John Podesta, a top White House climate adviser, said. “It takes a lot of work with this current Congress to do that, but we’re hard at it.”
And yet the Biden administration also has made choices. When the president drew up a list of multibillion-dollar priorities in October that he said required urgent approval from Congress, he chose military aid to Israel and Ukraine, arming Taiwan and increasing security along America’s southern border.
Then the White House issued a second plea: to fund natural disaster response in the United States, child care centers and high-speed internet. Money to help the world’s poorest countries cope with global warming did not make the cut.
Podesta said international climate finance was not listed in that supplemental request because it was focused on “critical priorities that we think can pass this Congress, and certainly have bipartisan support, really, in both houses.”
David Victor, a nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank, was more blunt.
“Transferring funds to other countries is not very popular in the United States right now,” he said. He noted that the emergency aid package to Israel and Ukraine had not yet won approval because House Republicans were still negotiating over changes to U.S. border policy.
“The country has turned inward,” Victor said. “It’s turned populist and it is at best trying to fund these two very expensive wars. And even that is challenging.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Military aid; Clean technology; Renewable resources; Presidents; Developing countries--LDCs; Energy; Climate change

Business indexing term: Subject: Renewable resources Developing countries--LDCs

Location: New York; United States--US; Israel; Ukraine; United Arab Emirates

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: United Nations--UN; NAICS: 928120; Name: Green Climate Fund; NAICS: 924110, 926110; Name: Congress-US; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); United States; Armada Oil Inc; United Nations Framework Convention On Climate Change; Us International Development Finance Corp; Republican Party; Campaign Finance; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Barbados; House Of Representatives; Alternative And Renewable Energy; Taiwan; Ukraine; Israel; Elections; Disasters And Emergencies; Pepsico Inc; Politics And Government; Sengupta, Somini; United Nations; Sustainable Living; Podesta, John D; Germany; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Presidential Election Of 2024; Defense And Military Forces; Pollution; United States Politics And Government; Global Warming; Foreign Investments; Developing Countries; World; International Energy Agency; American Rescue Plan (2021); International Relations; Brookings Institution; Morgan, Jennifer (Diplomat); Kerry, John; Foreign Aid; United Arab Emirates; United States International Relations; Walmart Stores Inc; Africa; Trump, Donald J; Conservation Of Resources; Harris, Kamala D; Poverty; Compensation For Damages (Law); United States Economy; Green Climate Fund

Title: Finding Cash for the Climate Is Tough. Two New Pledges Show Why.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Dec 4, 2023

Dateline: 2023-12-04T23:55:11Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2897229464

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/finding-cash-climate-is-tough-two-new-pledges/docview/2897229464/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 4, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

New York Attorney General Sues Pepsi Over Packaging: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Nerkar, Santul

Publication info: Nerkar, Santul. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-attorney-general-sues-pepsi-over/docview/2890229718/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Letitia James claimed that the snack giant was the largest contributor to pollution along the Buffalo River, which a state survey found was contaminated with single-use plastic products.
The New York attorney general sued PepsiCo on Wednesday, accusing the food and beverage giant of endangering the environment and misleading the public about its goals to eliminate single-use plastic in its packaging.
The attorney general, Letitia James, said her office had found that much of the plastic waste along the Buffalo River was from the company's products.
Ms. James is seeking unspecified damages and demanding that the company provide a remedy for the contamination in the Buffalo region caused by its products and reduce the quantity of PepsiCo's plastic packaging entering the river. Ms. James is also demanding that the company stop selling or distributing single-use plastic products in the Buffalo area that do not contain "adequate" warning labels.
"All New Yorkers have a basic right to clean water, yet PepsiCo's irresponsible packaging and marketing endanger Buffalo's water supply, environment and public health," Ms. James said in a statement.
In 2022, the attorney general's office conducted a survey of pollution in the Buffalo River and found high levels of contamination from single-use plastic products.
A PepsiCo spokeswoman said in a statement that the company "is serious about plastic reduction and effective recycling, and has been transparent in our journey to reduce use of plastic and accelerate new packaging innovation."
"PepsiCo has been working in New York to address the needs of communities, including advocating for New York bottle bill improvements and extended producer responsibility bills," the statement added.
PepsiCo, which is based in Purchase, N.Y., makes snack foods like Lay's potato chips and Mountain Dew soft drinks. Along with other companies that have committed to sustainability, it has said it aims to make all of its packaging "recyclable, compostable, biodegradable or reusable" by 2025. The company also says it wants to cut virgin plastic by 50 percent by 2030, compared with 2020.
But Ms. James's office said that the company had not followed through so far and, in the process, has contributed to a public nuisance and a potential health hazard to New Yorkers. The office said that it surveyed around 2,000 pieces of trash along the Buffalo River and found that PepsiCo products -- wrappers, bottles and chip bags -- were the largest contributor, accounting for more than 17 percent of the identifiable trash.
Ms. James's office has recently pursued legal action against businesses for violating environmental and consumer protection laws.
In September, the attorney general announced that three recycling and cleanup companies had been convicted of illegally processing and disposing of 800 tons of electronic waste. In June, Ms. James reached a $ 6.7 million settlement with the German biotech conglomerate Bayer over making false claims to consumers about the safety of its weedkiller Roundup. And in March, Ms. James filed suit against 29 waste management companies for illegally dumping in New York.
The suit filed on Wednesday against PepsiCo is similar to one filed in 2020 in a California court against PepsiCo, Coca-Cola and other big companies by a state environmental group. That suit also claimed that Pepsi was contributing to a "nuisance" and that it was misleading consumers through labeling its packaging as recyclable.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Consumers; Attorneys general; Recycling; Consumer protection

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Consumer protection

Location: Buffalo River; New York; United States--US

People: James, Letitia

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/15/business/pepsi-plastic-recycling-lawsuit.html

Title: New York Attorney General Sues Pepsi Over Packaging:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Nov 16, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2890229718

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/new-york-attorney-general-sues-pepsi-over/docview/2890229718/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Career-Spanning Spectacle, Stuffed With Hits: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Derrick Bryson Taylor; Sisario, Ben

Publication info: Derrick Bryson Taylor; Sisario, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/career-spanning-spectacle-stuffed-with-hits/docview/2877260639/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: After a health-related delay, the pop superstar launched her Celebration Tour in London with a performance devoted to her full catalog of hits.
They wore pearls with crucifixes, lace gloves, tulle skirts and body-sculpting corsets. Some even crimped their hair and drew on fake beauty moles, while others wore simple white T-shirts with only the letter M on the back. Spanning generations, the concertgoers arriving at the O2 Arena in London used Saturday night as an opportunity to dress in their favorite Madonna era, even if that was decades before they were born.
Madonna, 65, is on the road for the first time since 2020 with her global Celebration Tour, a stage spectacle touching on more than 40 of her hits across four decades. The show opened at the O2, a 20,000-capacity arena, three months after its planned first date, following a health scare for the pop icon. In June, Madonna was hospitalized shortly before the tour's scheduled debut in Canada. At the time, her manager said she had a "serious bacterial infection" that resulted in the singer staying in an intensive care unit for several days.
Madonna swore that the tour -- her first devoted to her full catalog of hits, rather than to a specific album release -- would go on. In recent weeks, she has filled her Instagram account with tantalizing, and very on-brand, images from rehearsals, showing her dressed in a lacy black bustier, practicing onstage steps and resting her fishnet-clad knees.
Fans waited out a 30-minute delay before Madonna arrived onstage in London, opening with a medley of hits before acknowledging the challenges that had led to the moment. "How did I make it this far? Because of you," she said, adding, "But I will take a bit of credit, too."
It was clear from the beginning that this concert would be as much a journey through Madonna's career as it would a bona fide dance party. Set on an elaborate stage that jutted out into the audience, several hanging retractable screens showed images of the singer. At other times, they displayed powerful portraits, as when she launched into "Live To Tell" and the screens displayed images of Freddie Mercury, Arthur Ashe and more people who died from AIDS.
For more than two hours, with the help of her dancers and some of her six children, Madonna blazed through her catalog of songs, singing several hits like "Holiday," "Like a Prayer," "Hung Up," "Ray of Light" and "Bad Girl." Her costumes were sexy, religious and futuristic.
Though the show had been in the works for months, it was not without technical difficulties. Early on, Madonna paused the show so the sound could be reset. She entertained the audience during the delay by speaking at length about her rise to stardom while technicians worked behind the scenes. Later in the show, between songs, Madonna spoke about the conflict between Israel and Palestine. "It breaks my heart to see children suffering, teenagers suffering, elderly people suffering, all of it is heartbreaking," she said. "Even though our hearts are broken, our spirits cannot be broken."
Madonna also reflected on her health struggles this year. "I forgot five days of my life, or my death," she said. "I don't really know where I was, but the angels were protecting me.
"If you want to know my secret, and you want to know how I pull through and how I survive, I thought, 'I've got to be there for my children. I have to survive for them,"' she said. She then led the crowd in a singalong of Gloria Gaynor's "I Will Survive."
The 24 performers onstage notably did not include a live band: Stuart Price, the tour's musical director, told the BBC that "the original recordings are our stars." The stage, which encompasses 4,400 square feet, was designed to echo Manhattan neighborhoods, as well as the wedding cake from Madonna's 1984 MTV Video Music Awards performance of "Like a Virgin." During the show, she is swept across the venue in a square-framed box 30 feet off the ground.
Carla Nobre, 38, of Nottingham said that seeing Madonna in concert had been on her bucket list, but that she had been disappointed with the performance."There was too much talking," she said.
Jenni Purple, 54, from the southern coast of England said the concert, which was her first time seeing Madonna live, had been "absolutely incredible." "I loved all the medleys, I loved the costumes, I loved all the dances," she said with a broad smile. "Everything was just mind-blowing."
In the past, Madonna's tours have been news-making events tied as much to her latest music as to her cycle of stylistic reinventions. But Celebration is essentially the pop superstar's Eras Tour, as Taylor Swift has styled her latest outing: a staged romp through decades of hit songs and signature looks, giving fans a chance to relive her career as a stages-of-life experience. (Seventeen of Madonna's previous costumes were recreated for the tour, and some of the merchandise for sale includes replicas from past treks.)
With her Virgin Tour in 1985, Madonna introduced herself as a punk-glam dance star whose every crucifix pendant or flap of denim was zealously adopted by fans. Who's That Girl (1987) and Blond Ambition (1990) grew increasingly elaborate as Madonna pushed the fashion envelope with looks like Jean Paul Gaultier's memorable cone bra and set the bar for bold, imaginative pop megatours. The Girlie Show (1993), in which Madonna appeared as a dominatrix, was the accompaniment to a period of daringly explicit material like her "Sex" book and "Justify My Love" video, which was banned from MTV.
After an eight-year absence from the road, Drowned World (2001) reintroduced Madonna as a new mother, an electro-pop heroine and an acolyte of kabbalah, a form of Jewish mysticism. In more recent years, her Confessions Tour (2006) cast her in late-70s disco style, and Rebel Heart (2015-16) found her playing guitar, in addition to executing the complex choreography for which she is known. Her most recent tour, Madame X, which was cut short by the Covid-19 pandemic, saw Madonna looking to reinvent her stage performance once again in a more intimate, almost cabaret form, mostly eschewing arenas for spaces like the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
For Madonna, the 78-date Celebration Tour is a chance to assert her star power in a year when live music has been dominated by Swift and Beyoncé -- women who, like Madonna before them, have used talent and deep media savvy to remake pop stardom in their own image. In July, Beyoncé acknowledged the debt, when Madonna, making one of her first public appearances after her hospitalization, attended Beyoncé's Renaissance World Tour in New Jersey. "Big shout-out to the queen," Beyoncé called out during a performance of the "Queens Remix" of her song "Break My Soul," which blends in Madonna's 1990 smash "Vogue" -- another hit that mined, and honored, gay dance culture of that period.
Madonna returned the acknowledgment on Saturday, playing a bit of the same remix during an interstitial moment.
When Madonna's latest tour was announced in January, it immediately became one of the year's big-ticket events -- and yielded a micro-flood of hot takes about the singer's age. But the tour appears to be far from sold out; Ticketmaster still shows many seats available at some major venues like Barclays Center in Brooklyn, where Madonna will start the North American leg of the tour with three shows in December.
Back in 2009, Madonna's Sticky & Sweet Tour set box-office records when it sold more than $ 400 million in tickets. Since then, the economics of live music have exploded; Beyoncé has already well exceeded that amount with her Renaissance shows, and Swift may well sell close to $ 2 billion in tickets by the time her Eras Tour is completed.
Legacy has clearly been on Madonna's mind lately. Last month, the 1989 Pepsi commercial that introduced her song "Like a Prayer" -- before it was pulled amid outrage over its music video, which featured an interracial kiss and the singer dancing in front of burning crosses -- was finally aired again during the MTV Video Music Awards.
Madonna, who had been paid $ 5 million for the promotion -- and kept the money -- said on social media: "So began my illustrious career as an artist refusing to compromise my artistic integrity." She added, "Thank you @pepsi for finally realizing the genius of our collaboration. Artists are here to disturb the peace."
It was clearly on fans' minds as well. Aisha and Maia Letamendia Moore, 17-year-old twins from southern England, near Brighton, wore looks that drew on the Vogue and Like a Virgin eras. "I think she's such an influence," Maia said. "She did so many things that were so controversial. She wasn't scared to do it, she wasn't scared what people would say."
Others mentioned rumors that Celebration could be Madonna's last tour. Helen Dawson, 47, who said she first saw Madonna during the Who's That Girl Tour in 1987, would abide no such thought. "Never, she won't give up," Ms. Dawson said. "This is just a new celebration, a new era."
Photograph From above: Madonna on Saturday at the O2 Arena in London, opening night of her "Celebration Tour"; fans capturing the moment outside the 20,000-seat arena; dressing the part; the twins Maia and Aisha Letamendia Moore in outfits inspired by the singer's "Like a Virgin" and "Vogue" eras. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MAZUR/WIREIMAGE FOR LIVE NATIONV; JEREMIE SOUTEYRAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C5.

Subject: Remixes (Sound recordings); Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances

Location: England; United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/14/arts/music/madonna-celebration-tour-london.html

Title: A Career-Spanning Spectacle, Stuffed With Hits:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 16, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2877260639

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/career-spanning-spectacle-stuffed-with-hits/docview/2877260639/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Madonna Celebrates Four Decades of Hits With Career-Spanning Spectacle

Author: Derrick Bryson Taylor; Sisario, Ben

Publication info: Derrick Bryson Taylor; Sisario, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/madonna-celebrates-four-decades-hits-with-career/docview/2877234554/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LONDON — They wore pearls with crucifixes, lace gloves, tulle skirts and body-sculpting corsets. Some even crimped their hair and drew on fake beauty moles, while others wore simple white T-shirts with only the letter M on the back. Spanning generations, the concertgoers arriving at the O2 Arena in London used Saturday night as an opportunity to dress in their favorite Madonna era, even if that was decades before they were born.
Madonna, 65, is on the road for the first time since 2020 with her global Celebration Tour, a stage spectacle touching on more than 40 of her hits across four decades. The show opened at the O2, a 20,000-capacity arena, three months after its planned first date, following a health scare for the pop icon. In June, Madonna was hospitalized shortly before the tour’s scheduled debut in Canada. At the time, her manager said she had a “serious bacterial infection” that resulted in the singer staying in an intensive care unit for several days.
Madonna swore that the tour — her first devoted to her full catalog of hits, rather than to a specific album release — would go on. In recent weeks, she has filled her Instagram account with tantalizing, and very on-brand, images from rehearsals, showing her dressed in a lacy black bustier, practicing onstage steps and resting her fishnet-clad knees.
Fans waited out a 30-minute delay before Madonna arrived onstage in London, opening with a medley of hits before acknowledging the challenges that had led to the moment. “How did I make it this far? Because of you,” she said, adding, “But I will take a bit of credit, too.”
It was clear from the beginning that this concert would be as much a journey through Madonna’s career as it would a bona fide dance party. Set on an elaborate stage that jutted out into the audience, several hanging retractable screens showed images of the singer. At other times, they displayed powerful portraits, as when she launched into “Live To Tell” and the screens displayed images of Freddie Mercury, Arthur Ashe and more people who died from AIDS.
For more than two hours, with the help of her dancers and some of her six children, Madonna blazed through her catalog of songs, singing several hits like “Holiday,” “Like a Prayer,” “Hung Up,” “Ray of Light” and “Bad Girl.” Her costumes were sexy, religious and futuristic.
Although the show had been in the works for months, it was not without technical difficulties. Early on, Madonna paused the show so the sound could be reset. She entertained the audience during the delay by speaking at length about her rise to stardom while technicians worked behind the scenes. Later in the show, between songs, Madonna spoke about the conflict between Israel and Palestine. “It breaks my heart to see children suffering, teenagers suffering, elderly people suffering, all of it is heartbreaking,” she said. “Even though our hearts are broken, our spirits cannot be broken.”
Madonna also reflected on her health struggles this year. “I forgot five days of my life, or my death,” she said. “I don’t really know where I was, but the angels were protecting me.
“If you want to know my secret, and you want to know how I pull through and how I survive, I thought, ‘I’ve got to be there for my children. I have to survive for them,’” she said. She then led the crowd in a singalong of Gloria Gaynor’s “I Will Survive.”
The 24 performers onstage notably did not include a live band: Stuart Price, the tour’s musical director, told the BBC that “the original recordings are our stars.” The stage, which encompasses 4,400 square feet, was designed to echo Manhattan neighborhoods, as well as the wedding cake from Madonna’s 1984 MTV Video Music Awards performance of “Like a Virgin.” During the show, she is swept across the venue in a square-framed box 30 feet off the ground.
Carla Nobre, 38, of Nottingham said that seeing Madonna in concert had been on her bucket list, but that she had been disappointed with the performance. “There was too much talking,” she said.
Jenni Purple, 54, from the southern coast of England said the concert, which was her first time seeing Madonna live, had been “absolutely incredible.” “I loved all the medleys, I loved the costumes, I loved all the dances,” she said with a broad smile. “Everything was just mind-blowing.”
In the past, Madonna’s tours have been news-making events tied as much to her latest music as to her cycle of stylistic reinventions. But Celebration is essentially the pop superstar’s Eras Tour, as Taylor Swift has styled her latest outing: a staged romp through decades of hit songs and signature looks, giving fans a chance to relive her career as a stages-of-life experience. (Seventeen of Madonna’s previous costumes were re-created for the tour, and some of the merchandise for sale includes replicas from past treks.)
With her Virgin Tour in 1985, Madonna introduced herself as a punk-glam dance star whose every crucifix pendant or flap of denim was zealously adopted by fans. Who’s That Girl (1987) and Blond Ambition (1990) grew increasingly elaborate as Madonna pushed the fashion envelope with looks like Jean Paul Gaultier’s memorable cone bra and set the bar for bold, imaginative pop megatours. The Girlie Show (1993), in which Madonna appeared as a dominatrix, was the accompaniment to a period of daringly explicit material like her “Sex” book and “Justify My Love” video, which was banned from MTV.
After an eight-year absence from the road, Drowned World (2001) reintroduced Madonna as a new mother, an electro-pop heroine and an acolyte of kabbalah, a form of Jewish mysticism. In more recent years, her Confessions Tour (2006) cast her in late-70s disco style, and Rebel Heart (2015-16) found her playing guitar, in addition to executing the complex choreography for which she is known. Her most recent tour, Madame X, which was cut short by the COVID-19 pandemic, saw Madonna looking to reinvent her stage performance once again in a more intimate, almost cabaret form, mostly eschewing arenas for spaces like New York City’s Brooklyn Academy of Music.
For Madonna, the 78-date Celebration Tour is a chance to assert her star power in a year when live music has been dominated by Swift and Beyoncé — women who, like Madonna before them, have used talent and deep media savvy to remake pop stardom in their own image. In July, Beyoncé acknowledged the debt, when Madonna, making one of her first public appearances after her hospitalization, attended Beyoncé’s Renaissance World Tour in New Jersey. “Big shout out to the queen,” Beyoncé called out during a performance of the “Queens Remix” of her song “Break My Soul,” which blends in Madonna’s 1990 smash “Vogue” — another hit that mined, and honored, gay dance culture of that period.
Madonna returned the acknowledgment Saturday, playing a bit of the same remix during an interstitial moment.
When Madonna’s latest tour was announced in January, it immediately became one of the year’s big-ticket events — and yielded a micro-flood of hot takes about the singer’s age. But the tour appears to be far from sold out; Ticketmaster still shows many seats available at some major venues like Barclays Center in the New York City borough of Brooklyn, where Madonna will start the North American leg of the tour with three shows in December.
Back in 2009, Madonna’s Sticky & Sweet Tour set box-office records when it sold more than $400 million in tickets. Since then, the economics of live music have exploded; Beyoncé has already well exceeded that amount with her Renaissance shows, and Swift may well sell close to $2 billion in tickets by the time her Eras Tour is completed.
Legacy has clearly been on Madonna’s mind lately. Last month, the 1989 Pepsi commercial that introduced her song “Like a Prayer” — before it was pulled amid outrage over its music video, which featured an interracial kiss and the singer dancing in front of burning crosses — was finally aired again during the MTV Video Music Awards.
Madonna, who had been paid $5 million for the promotion — and kept the money — said on social media: “So began my illustrious career as an artist refusing to compromise my artistic integrity.” She added, “Thank you @pepsi for finally realizing the genius of our collaboration. Artists are here to disturb the peace.”
It was clearly on fans’ minds as well. Aisha and Maia Letamendia Moore, 17-year-old twins from southern England, near Brighton, wore looks that drew on the Vogue and Like a Virgin eras. “I think she’s such an influence,” Maia said. “She did so many things that were so controversial. She wasn’t scared to do it, she wasn’t scared what people would say.”
Others mentioned rumors that Celebration could be Madonna’s last tour. Helen Dawson, 47, who said she first saw Madonna during the Who’s That Girl Tour in 1987, would abide no such thought. “Never, she won’t give up,” Dawson said. “This is just a new celebration, a new era.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Remixes (Sound recordings); Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Singers

Location: England; New York City New York; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

Identifier / keyword: New York City; Entertainment; Pepsico Inc; Aisha; International Relations; Dating And Relationships; T Shirts ( Apparel); Pop And Rock Music; Box Office Sales; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Barclays Center (Brooklyn, Ny); Madonna; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Gaultier, Jean Paul; Peace Process; Arts; Vogue; London (England); Brooklyn Academy Of Music; Canada; Careers And Professions; Israel; Ticketmaster; Mtv Video Music Awards; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; O2 Arena (London, England); Dancing; Barclays Plc; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Instagram Inc; England; Sisario, Ben; Jewels And Jewelry; Brighton (England); Gaultier, Jean Paul (Fashion Label); Awards, Decorations And Honors; Crosses And Crucifixes; Music; Advertising And Marketing; Academy Of Music; Fashion And Apparel; Rumors And Misinformation; New Jersey; Gaynor, Gloria; Real Estate (Commercial); Mercury, Freddie; Swift, Taylor; Magazines; North America; Television; Stadiums And Arenas; British Broadcasting Corp; Queens (Nyc); Tests (Medical); Fans (Persons); Ashe, Arthur; Nottingham (England)

Title: Madonna Celebrates Four Decades of Hits With Career -Spanning Spectacle

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 15, 2023

Dateline: 2023-10-15T22:02:59Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2877234554

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/madonna-celebrates-four-decades-hits-with-career/docview/2877234554/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-19

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2875247225/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: COMPANIES
PepsiCo Raises Prices, and Profits Rise, Too
Price increases lifted PepsiCo's profits in the third quarter, but the company says those increases are likely to moderate in the coming year.
Pepsi raised prices 11 percent in the July to September period, the seventh straight quarter that the company has increased prices by double-digits. The higher prices took a toll on demand, with sales volumes down 2.5 percent.
PepsiCo said some of that volume decline was strategic. The company said it had been shrinking package sizes to meet consumer demand for convenience and portion control.
But there is also some consumer pushback on prices. Consumers are looking for value and, in some cases, are trading down to cheaper stores.
"I do think that we see the consumer right now being more selective," PepsiCo's chief financial officer, Hugh Johnston, said Tuesday on a conference call with investors. ASSOCIATED PRESS
AVIATION
Boeing Deliveries Dip as a Supplier Struggles
Boeing's deliveries of airline jets slumped in the third quarter as the company struggled with production problems that are cutting into its ability to generate cash.
Boeing said it delivered 27 planes in September, including 15 of its best seller, the 737 Max.
That was far behind its European rival, Airbus, which delivered 55 planes last month. It brought Boeing's quarterly total to 105 deliveries, down from 112 in the same period last year.
Boeing gets the largest share of the purchase price when it delivers planes, so the dip hurts cash flow.
Production and deliveries of the Max and the 787 Dreamliner have been affected by production flaws, notably at Spirit AeroSystems, which builds the fuselages. In the most recent example, the companies said in August that improperly drilled fastener holes would delay deliveries of 737s. ASSOCIATED PRESS
TECHNOLOGY
AMD Says It Will Buy A.I. Start-Up Nod.ai
Advanced Micro Devices said on Tuesday that it planned to buy an artificial intelligence start-up, Nod.ai, as part of an effort to bolster its software abilities.
In its race to catch a rival chipmaker, Nvidia, the company plans to invest heavily in the critical software necessary for the company's advanced A.I. chips. Through more than a decade of work, Nvidia has built a powerful advantage in the A.I. chip market through the software it makes, and the software developer ecosystem.
AMD has vowed to invest in and build a unified collection of software to power the various chips the company makes.
The acquisition of Nod.ai fits into the strategy because its technology enables companies to deploy A.I. models that are tuned for AMD's chips more easily. Nod.ai sells its technology to large data center operators, among other customers. REUTERS
Credit: By Associated Press and Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER CZIBORRA/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Prices; Corporate profits; Startups

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate profits Startups

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111; Name: NVidia Corp; NAICS: 334413, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/10/business/11bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 11, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2875247225

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/2875247225/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Pull Over. It's the Great Truck Stop Revival.: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Gose, Joe

Publication info: Gose, Joe. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pull-over-great-truck-stop-revival/docview/2869108088/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Highway travel centers are adding amenities like restaurants and dog parks to accommodate the expanded dwell time of electric vehicle owners.
Planning a long road trip? Now you can nibble on crudités and shop for home furnishings at a roadside service plaza while you wait for your electric vehicle to recharge.
The truck stops that keep Americans fueled, fed and refreshed along major highways are spending billions overhauling their stores to keep up with changing consumer behavior, particularly the growing popularity of electric vehicles.
Along with the addition of charging stations, these travel centers are being redesigned to accommodate longer stays, with renovated restrooms and showers, quick-serve kitchens, full-service and fast-food restaurants, and dog parks.
The changes continue to transform the modern truck stop, a slice of Americana that took off in the 1960s amid the expansion of the Interstate Highway System. Over the years, truck stops were often perceived as grimy -- and occasionally seedy. But today, they are more akin to a mini-Walmart, filled with energy drinks, iced coffee, and healthy snacks like sliced fruit and veggies. Across the aisle, you're likely to find purses and puzzles, as well as phone chargers and birdhouses.
The changes better position truck stops to serve the growing number of electric vehicles on the road, said Jim Hurless, a managing director in Dallas for CBRE, a real estate services firm.
"Truck stops are trying to get electric car owners to spend as much of that time as possible inside their stores," he said. "So they're trying to differentiate themselves by providing amenities that will be more appealing to that consumer."
The popularity of electric vehicles is surging; some 577,000 were sold in the United States in the first half of 2023, a 47 percent increase from a year earlier, according to Cox Automotive. But many owners are reluctant to take long trips for fear of not finding a charger when needed, a concern known as range anxiety, said Mr. Hurless, who manages the development and advancement of CBRE's electric vehicle business.
Exactly how the charging networks will come together remains unclear, say truck stop operators, who face numerous challenges, including growing demand, byzantine utility rules that differ from state to state and the need for sufficient power to operate fast chargers, which can provide up to 350 kilowatts versus the 1.8 to 22 kilowatts delivered by standard chargers.
Additionally, peak-demand charges from utilities pose potential surprises for operators, said Aaron Luque, chief executive of EnviroSpark, a designer and installer of electric car charging stations in Atlanta.
"Electric vehicle charging presents a unique set of challenges," he said. "But what's encouraging is that traditional fuel providers are coming around."
To foster development of a cross-country charging network along major highways, Congress in 2021 passed the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which included $ 5 billion to pay for up to 80 percent of the cost of installing fast chargers. Truck stop operators and others are petitioning states for the grants, which are targeting locations along major highway interchanges that are least 50 miles apart.
Pilot, a fuel provider and travel center operator based in Knoxville, Tenn., has so far secured $ 9.6 million from Ohio and $ 2.3 million from Pennsylvania in fast-charger funding for a total of 17 locations, said Brad Jenkins, president of PFJ Energy, Pilot's fuel supply division. The company also has teamed up with General Motors and EVgo, an owner and operator of fast-charging networks in the United States, to expand the infrastructure.
"This is such a new business that you're not only trying to figure out who will show up, but when will they show up -- will it be at a time of peak or low electrical demand?" Mr. Jenkins said. "We're working with regulators, utilities and states and others to come up with creative solutions to make this work."
Pilot, which operates more than 870 Pilot and Flying J locations in the United States and Canada, started a $ 1 billion initiative last year to remodel 400 of its travel centers and upgrade others over three years. The effort is Pilot's largest investment in store modernization since its founding in 1958.
"We take care of 1.5 million guests per day, and we realize they all have different tastes and that their needs are changing," said Allison Cornish, vice president of store modernization for Pilot. "We want to be a place for all travelers"
Pilot's two biggest competitors -- Love's Travel Stops and TravelCenters of America -- are also investing heavily in store overhauls.
Love's, a family-owned business in Oklahoma City that was founded in 1964, has built about half of its 640-store network over the last decade and is spending $ 1 billion to refresh its older stock, said Shane Wharton, president of the chain. In a few cases, that means razing and reconstructing stores. The company is opening 25 locations this year, and it has received $ 4.8 million in federal funding for electric vehicle charging stations at eight travel centers in Pennsylvania and Colorado.
"From a competitive standpoint, we want a consistency of customer experience," he said. "When our customers see the Love's brand, they'll know what to expect."
Truck stops are committed to adding fast electric vehicle chargers, which means travelers will need a place to hang out for around 30 minutes or longer while their cars charge, said Mr. Hurless, the CBRE executive.
But travel center operators hope to have perfected a pleasant dwell-time experience regardless of the car or truck their customers drive.
"If you're filling up with gas or diesel, it might take three to five minutes, but charging electric vehicles today might be 30 minutes," said Mr. Wharton, who expects to receive state grants soon. "By providing those products and services, whether it's food, Wi-Fi, a dog park or a shower, we think we're positioned well when compared to a charger in the middle of a parking lot of some big-box retailer."
The evolution of the travel center parallels trends in the convenience store industry, which has experienced a jump in traffic amid enhanced fresh food, baked goods and coffee options over the past few years. Foot traffic at convenience stores last year was 15.9 percent higher than it was in 2019, outpacing grocery stores, fast food chains, coffee chains, conventional gas stations and other related retail categories, according to Placer.ai, an analytics firm that tracks customer traffic.
The changes at truck stops are attracting investors. Early this year, Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway paid $ 8.2 billion to increase its ownership of Pilot to 80 percent from 38.6 percent. And the British energy giant BP completed its $ 1.3 billion acquisition of TravelCenters of America in May.
BP is investing $ 1 billion in electric vehicle chargers across its U.S. retail businesses, which include Amoco and Thorntons, said Greg Franks, BP's senior vice president of mobility and convenience for the Americas. The overhaul of travel centers along with the creation of an e-commerce platform is aimed, in part, at strengthening its appeal to passenger traffic, he added.
"We've been very clear that our ambition in the U.S. is to grow," Mr. Franks said.
Truck stops provide billions of gallons of fuel to the market each year, so the addition of electric vehicle chargers is a major transformation for the business. But like natural gas, hydrogen and other alternative fuels that travel centers offer, they're a new opportunity, said David Fialkov, executive vice president of government affairs at the National Association of Truck Stop Operators, a trade association.
"Truck stops don't care what type of fuel people put into their cars, just like they don't care whether people buy Coke or Pepsi or coffee or cake in their stores," he said. "But they need to be able to make money selling electricity in the same way they do selling gas to build an ongoing, sustainable market."
Photograph Travel centers like Love's in Tucumcari, N.M., where Isabel Rodriguez was working as a cashier, have generated more traffic with added amenities such as laundry rooms and dog parks, where Chevy and Callie were seen playing.; A Pilot travel center in Albuquerque. The chain started a $ 1 billion initiative last year to remodel 400 of its centers and upgrade others. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMSAY DE GIVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Food; Coffee; Electric vehicles; Roads & highways; Executives; Transportation planning; Truck stops; Travel; Modernization; Convenience stores; Chain stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Executives Convenience stores Chain stores

Location: United States--US; Pennsylvania

Company / organization: Name: TravelCenters of America; NAICS: 457120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/26/business/truck-stops-electric-vehicles.html

Title: Pull Over. It's the Great Truck Stop Revival.:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 27, 2023

column: Are Feet

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2869108088

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pull-over-great-truck-stop-revival/docview/2869108088/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Father Has Spent His Whole Career at Ford. His Son Might Not.: [National Desk]

Author: Russell, Jenna

Publication info: Russell, Jenna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/father-has-spent-his-whole-career-at-ford-son/docview/2869108081/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: On Friday morning just before 10, Steve Kellums, 54, and his son Keegan, 24, sat side by side in the older man's living room in Westland, Mich., a short drive from the Ford Motor assembly plant where they both work. One week into the strike by 3,300 workers at the plant, they were anxiously awaiting an announcement from their union president on Facebook Live.
Bent over his cellphone, Keegan tried to tamp down sparks of optimism. He knew better than to imagine that the strike, at that point limited to his plant and two others in Missouri and Ohio, would end quickly, because the United Automobile Workers and Ford management were so far apart.
"I know it's going to get more ugly before it gets better," Keegan said, taking a swig from a bottle of Pepsi.
Steve turned toward him. "Or, let's be positive," he said, sounding decidedly dad-like. "There's at least a chance they could have come to an agreement."
Father and son have leaned on one another since Sept. 15, when the autoworkers' union began its first simultaneous strike against General Motors, Ford and Stellantis, Chrysler's parent company. Both men were on strike for the first time in their lives, and have been talking one another through it day by day. They represent two ends of the spectrum among the workers, and two perspectives on the industry, a generational divergence that ripples through the broader work force.
Their views reflect larger changes in the way younger people see work, and think about obligation to employers, a shift that has fed recent growth in support for unions and union organizing efforts at more private companies.
With 28 years behind him at Michigan Assembly -- an immense plant in Wayne, 30 miles west of Detroit, that ordinarily churns out some of Ford's most popular SUVs and trucks at slightly faster than one vehicle a minute -- Steve Kellums hopes to retire by the time he turns 60, and he dreams of buying a small farm in Tennessee. He was hired in 1994, before a downturn in the industry and a recession drove Ford into financial crisis, and forced the union to make once-unthinkable concessions, including accepting a two-tier wage system with lower pay for newer workers.
When Keegan Kellums started at Ford in 2020, his pay reflected those tumultuous changes. He said he left Amazon, where he was making nearly $ 18 an hour as a packager, to start at Ford at just $ 16 an hour.
His father said it pained him to see how much had changed since the days when a job at Ford Motor meant a comfortable middle-class life. He was making double his son's wages when Keegan was hired.
"Twenty-five years later, they only offered him $ 3 more per hour than I got when I joined," Steve said. "Is this the life I wanted for him? No."
Now, the U.A.W. is trying to eliminate two-tier wages, add retiree benefits for younger workers, and raise pay by 40 percent over the next four years, to make up for the compensation lost to givebacks over time. Ford has said it cannot afford those proposals.
On the picket line last week outside the plant in Wayne, it was hard to find a union member who did not have two or three generations of relatives employed by the company. For much of its history, since it began offering factory workers $ 5 a day to build the Model T in 1914, Ford's wages and benefits allowed blue-collar employees to join the middle class. Jobs with the automaker were sought after. Turnover was low.
Keegan has ties to Ford on both sides of his family. His maternal grandfather worked for 42 years at Michigan Assembly. His father's great-grandfather worked at another Ford plant in Dearborn. Keegan's first new car, in high school, was a silver Ford Fusion; to make his payments, he worked at the nearby Henry Ford museum.
As a boy, he imagined a future with Ford, but was taken aback when his father did not embrace his plan.
"My dad said, 'No, be something bigger than that, go to college -- I come home tired every day,"' the younger Mr. Kellums recalled another day last week, sitting in the local union hall near tables piled with food donated to striking workers.
When Keegan was nine or 10 and the country sank into recession, the union agreed to help keep Ford afloat through a bad time, but members now say Ford never restored their losses when profits surged again, leaving them disillusioned and less able to get by.
"I knew something was going on," Keegan said of that time in his childhood. "The big birthday parties got smaller. We stopped going to Cedar Point, the amusement park, for vacation every summer."
After high school, he worked as a cashier at Dollar Tree, making minimum wage and living at home, and then for Amazon, where he hoped to find more opportunity. But he found the workplace chaotic during the pandemic, with frequent changes in sick-time rules and people being fired with little warning.
When the job came up at Ford, he felt conflicted, but the prospect of joining a strong union made the difference.
"The union could protect me," he said. "That was it, right there."
The new job was a grueling adjustment for him -- physically demanding, hot and dirty. Lacking seniority, he worked from 6 p.m. until 4:30 a.m. and came home exhausted, his arms coated in black grime. Like his father, who works days, Keegan is a material handler, "feeding the line" by swiftly moving heavy rolling racks of auto parts from the warehouse to the fast-paced assembly floor.
"I'm a big boy," he said, "and it takes all my weight to move them."
As his endurance grew, so did his pay; earlier this month, his hourly wage rose to $ 24. He had saved enough by last November to move out of his father's house and into an apartment with two roommates.
When the call came to strike, father and son both said they felt ready. Steve took the bigger financial hit, because all union members are getting the same strike pay from the union -- $ 500 a week. But Keegan faces more uncertainty; he had planned to sign a lease on a new apartment this November, but now, with no idea how long the strike will last, he wonders if he should move back in with his dad.
If that is what it takes to win a better contract, so be it, he said, noting that for younger, lower-paid workers like him, the strike feels like less of a risk than it might for older workers.
"The difference with my generation is, we don't have a lot to lose," he said. "We don't have a pension. We don't have kids."
Each generation says it is fighting for the other: Keegan wants to see his father's losses restored, while Steve wants to know that his son will be able to make a decent living at Ford, as he himself once did, before cuts to his hours and overtime reduced his income. "I couldn't tell you the last time I had 40 hours," he said.
In his son's view of the future, though, Ford is just one option. "If I could find a good job somewhere else, I would," Keegan said, "but what else is there around here?"
The announcement the men were waiting for on Friday morning turned out not to be the strike's end, but its expansion. Workers at 38 General Motors and Stellantis parts distribution centers in 20 states were called to walk out. Shawn Fain, the U.A.W. president, did not expand the strike to additional Ford employees, though, citing progress in bargaining on job security and wages.
Encouraged by that glimmer of hope, Keegan said the strategy seemed sound, and that he approves of the union's aggressive approach. "The older generation, in general, has been more passive," he said. "I think my generation pushed them to take the first step."
Steve wonders how willing the younger workers will be to accept even reasonable compromises at the bargaining table.
To save money while the strike goes on, Keegan said he would continue to go "grocery shopping" in his father's pantry and visit often for home-cooked meals. At the union hall on Thursday, Keegan's girlfriend scooped up several donated tomatoes to give to his father, a skilled cook who can replicate their favorite Outback entree, Alice Springs Chicken.
After the announcement on Friday morning, it was time for Steve to head to the picket line, where he serves as a strike captain outside Gate 19 for six hours a week. Keegan tagged along, though his own assigned day to picket was not until Sunday. Keegan knew his dad would join the line again with him then.
Keegan's girlfriend has picketed as well, between her shifts at Walmart, where pay and benefits are lacking, she said, and there is no union to push for better. While the strike has made her more aware of the potential drawbacks of a job at Ford, the 22-year-old said it still looked like a better option.
Given the chance to work at Ford, she said, she would jump at it.
Photograph STEVE KELLUMS, 54, referring to Ford's two-tier wage system.; KEEGAN KELLUMS, 24, who started at the automaker in 2020.; United Automobile Workers members and supporters joined strikers near the Ford Michigan Assembly Plant in Wayne this week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRITTANY GREESON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A12.

Subject: Generations; Strikes; Recessions; Wages & salaries; Younger workers; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Strikes Recessions Wages & salaries Younger workers Factories

Location: United States--US; Michigan

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/26/us/uaw-union-ford-michigan-generations.html

Title: A Father Has Spent His Whole Career at Ford. His Son Might Not.:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.12

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 27, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2869108081

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/father-has-spent-his-whole-career-at-ford-son/docview/2869108081/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Hello Dankness: [Review]

Author: Kenigsberg, Ben

Publication info: Kenigsberg, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hello-dankness/docview/2862038312/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The video artists known as Soda Jerk explore life in the United States from 2016 onward with an oddball assemblage of pop culture clips.
In the pop-culture universe deconstructed -- and reconstructed -- in "Hello Dankness," the Ninja Turtles parse the Pizzagate conspiracy theory, Nancy from "A Nightmare on Elm Street" has lost sleep over the end of Bernie Sanders's 2020 presidential campaign and a "Home Alone"-era Macaulay Culkin spends his pandemic watching "Tiger King."
Written and edited (though not, strictly speaking, directed) by Soda Jerk -- the name adopted by Dan and Dominique Angeloro, sibling video artists from Australia who live in New York -- the whole movie consists of repurposed visual and audio clips, digitally tweaked and deftly edited to interact with one another, and to present a chain of associations about the United States from 2016 through the start of Joe Biden's presidency.
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Even before its title card, "Hello Dankness" opens with a full airing of the Kendall Jenner ad that Pepsi pulled because of complaints it trivialized Black Lives Matter. If you think what follows is outlandish -- well, just look at that commercial, which could easily have run before the movie in a conventional theater and plays as if that were happening. In the funniest interlude, the Trump administration's first three years are reduced, in their entirety, to the deliberately slapdash, meme-inspiring YouTube "Garfield" parody "Garfielf," with Trump's pompadour pasted on top of the fat feline's head.
Covid-induced stir craziness and the spread of misinformation on social media are shown as contributing factors to what the movie portrays as a national mental breakdown. You don't have to agree with all of Soda Jerk's diagnoses to admire their ingenuity. "Hello Dankness" belongs to a venerable underground-film tradition of treating refracted entertainment as a mirror for society. No fan of Ken Jacobs's "Star Spangled to Death," Richard Kelly's "Southland Tales" or Joe Dante's "The Movie Orgy" could help but smile.
Hello Dankness
Not rated. Running time: 1 hour 10 minutes. In theaters.
Not rated. Running time: 1 hour 10 minutes. In theaters.
Photograph "Hello Dankness" uses repurposed visual and audio clips to present a chain of associations about the American presidency. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA FILM FORUM) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Soda Jerk; NAICS: 454110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/07/movies/hello-dankness-review.html

Title: Hello Dankness:   [Review ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 8, 2023

column: Critic's Pick

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Review

ProQuest document ID: 2862038312

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hello-dankness/docview/2862038312/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Appeals Court Revives Sex Abuse Suits Against Michael Jackson's Companies: [National Desk]

Author: Kuo, Christopher

Publication info: Kuo, Christopher. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/appeals-court-revives-sex-abuse-suits-against/docview/2853182183/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: An appeals court in California determined that lawsuits by two men who say Jackson molested them as children can proceed.
Two men who have accused Michael Jackson of sexually abusing them as children are able to resume their lawsuits against companies owned by the singer, who died in 2009, a California appeals court ruled on Friday.
The men, Wade Robson, 40, and James Safechuck, 45, have alleged that Mr. Jackson sexually abused them for years and that employees of the two companies -- MJJ Productions Inc. and MJJ Ventures Inc. -- were complicit, acting as his "co-conspirators, collaborators, facilitators and alter egos" for the abuse. The suits say that employees of the companies owed a "duty of care" to the boys and failed to take steps to prevent abuse.
Mr. Robson's and Mr. Safechuck's stories were featured in the 2019 HBO documentary "Leaving Neverland," in which the men accused Mr. Jackson of molesting them and cultivating relationships with their families to access the boys' bodies.
"Everybody wanted to meet Michael or be with Michael," Mr. Safechuck said in the film. "He was already larger than life. And then he likes you."
The two companies are now owned by Mr. Jackson's estate, which has repeatedly denied that he abused the boys.
"We remain fully confident that Michael is innocent of these allegations, which are contrary to all credible evidence and independent corroboration, and which were only first made years after Michael's death by men motivated solely by money," Jonathan Steinsapir, a lawyer for Mr. Jackson's estate, said in a statement after the decision.
Vince Finaldi, a lawyer for Mr. Safechuck and Mr. Robson, said in a statement that the court had overturned "incorrect rulings in these cases, which were against California law and would have set a dangerous precedent that endangered children."
Mr. Robson and Mr. Safechuck filed their suits against the companies in 2013 and 2014, respectively, but both cases were dismissed in 2017 because they exceeded California's statute of limitations. They were reopened in 2020 after a new state law provided plaintiffs in child sex abuse cases an additional period to file lawsuits.
In October 2020 and April 2021, the suits were again dismissed when a Los Angeles County Superior Court judge ruled that the two corporations and their employees were not legally obligated to protect the men from Mr. Jackson.
But on Friday, California's Second District Court of Appeal ruled that "a corporation that facilitates the sexual abuse of children by one of its employees is not excused from an affirmative duty to protect those children merely because it is solely owned by the perpetrator of the abuse."
In a concurring opinion, Justice John Shepard Wiley Jr. said that for the purposes of civil liability, the corporations did the sole bidding of Mr. Jackson, who had a duty of care to Mr. Robson and Mr. Safechuck.
"So did Jackson's marionettes, because Jackson's fingers held every string," he said, adding, "These corporations could have taken cost-effective steps to reduce the risk of harm."
The cases, which were consolidated in the appeals court, will now go back to a trial court.
In his lawsuit, Mr. Robson, who is now a choreographer and director, says that Mr. Jackson molested him from age 7 to 14. After meeting Mr. Jackson through a dance competition when he was 5, Mr. Robson performed in his music videos and released an album on his record label.
According to his suit, the abuse started in 1990 when Mr. Jackson invited Mr. Robson and his family to stay at his Neverland Ranch in California. Mr. Robson and Mr. Jackson slept in the same bed and touched each other's genitals, according to the suit. Over the next seven years, the suit said, they engaged in sexual acts including masturbation and oral sex.
The suit says that employees of MJJ Productions witnessed the abuse and that employees of the two companies took steps to ensure that Mr. Jackson was alone with Mr. Robson and other children.
Mr. Safechuck's lawsuit says he was one of several children entrapped by the companies' "child sexual abuse procurement and facilitation organization." According to his suit, Mr. Safechuck met Mr. Jackson during filming for a Pepsi commercial in late 1986 or early 1987 and later became a dancer for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Jackson showed the 10-year-old boy how to masturbate while on tour in 1988, the suit alleges, and abused Mr. Safechuck hundreds of times over the next four years. The employees of MJJ Productions and MJJ Ventures coordinated the visits, according to the suit.
Before these lawsuits, Mr. Jackson twice faced criminal investigations into the possible sexual abuse of children.
In 1994, the district attorneys for Los Angeles and Santa Barbara Counties decided not to proceed with charges that Mr. Jackson had molested three boys because the "primary alleged victim" decided not to testify. Mr. Jackson, who denied any wrongdoing, had reached a $ 20 million civil settlement with the boy's family.
In 2003, a Santa Barbara County district attorney charged Mr. Jackson with several counts of child molesting and serving alcohol to minors. After a 14-week trial in 2005, he was acquitted by a jury.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Child sexual abuse; Acquittals & mistrials; Child abuse & neglect; Sex crimes; Scandals; Sexual abuse; Pedophilia; Employees; State laws; Boys

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees

Location: California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/18/arts/music/michael-jackson-sexual-abuse-lawsuits.html

Title: Appeals Court Revives Sex Abuse Suits Against Michael Jackson's Companies:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 20, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853182183

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/appeals-court-revives-sex-abuse-suits-against/docview/2853182183/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Matildas Unite a Land Split, Culturally and Geographically, Over Footy: [Sports Desk]

Author: Smith, Rory

Publication info: Smith, Rory. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/matildas-unite-land-split-culturally/docview/2850989633/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The World Cup has added a new dimension to a national sporting conversation often dominated by the rivalry between rugby and Australian rules football.
Inside the vast sweep of the Melbourne Cricket Ground, almost nobody was paying attention to what was happening on the field. Those fans who remained in their seats were staring up at the big screens, absorbed by a game a thousand miles away. Many had given up the pretense entirely: They were on the concourse, gathered around any television they could find.
The match they had come to watch at the M.C.G. was a significant one. Only a couple of games remained in the regular season of the Australian Football League, and the two teams in attendance, Carlton and Melbourne, were jockeying for position in the playoffs. The stakes were high enough to draw a crowd of almost 70,000 fans.
For much of the first quarter, though, the spectators' eyes and minds were elsewhere: In Brisbane, to be exact, where Australia's World Cup quarterfinal with France had gone to a penalty kick shootout. The live sporting event playing out in front of them could not compete with the appeal of the Matildas. At this point, very little can.
Over the course of the last three weeks, Australia has fallen -- and fallen hard -- for its women's soccer team. The whole country seems to be decked out in green and gold. Images of Matildas players beam out from billboards and television screens and the front pages of every newspaper.
One paper, The Courier-Mail of Brisbane, was briefly rebranded as The Kerr-ier Mail, in honor of Sam Kerr, Australia's captain. Anthony Albanese, the prime minister, has expressed support for a national holiday if the team wins the World Cup.
"We went out on a team walk in Brisbane before the France game," defender Clare Hunt said. "And I had a moment where I thought: 'Oh my God, this is actually happening.' We were swarmed by the public, and they were chanting for us. We are a little separate from it, but when you're in packed stadiums, when you see people on the streets, see people investing in women's soccer, you realize what's happening."
The Matildas' games have consistently shattered records for television viewing figures. Their crucial group stage victory against Canada attracted an audience of 4.7 million people, making it the most-watched program of the year on the national Seven Network.
Their next game, against Denmark in the round of 16, was watched by a total of about 6.5 million people. It was the biggest television event of the year, on any network, for roughly four days: until the peak audience for Australia-France in the quarterfinals stretched beyond seven million.
That figure does not include those who streamed it online or the vast crowds that gathered in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth to watch it en masse. By most estimates, it was the nation's highest-rated sports event in a decade. The team's semifinal match with England on Wednesday was cumulatively expected to surpass the 8.8 million who watched Cathy Freeman win gold in the 400 meters at the Sydney Olympics in 2000.
The best gauge of how deep the Matildas' impact runs, though, is in the reaction from Australia's other major sports. For years, soccer, men's or women's, has struggled to compete for both attention and revenue in what is an unusually rich sporting ecosystem, fading in comparison not only to cricket, the national summer game, but to a panoply of winter sports, all of which are known, a little unhelpfully, as "footy."
"For a long time, the country was divided along the Barassi Line," said Hunter Fujak, a lecturer in sports management at Deakin University. The line, named in tribute to the famed former player, coach and commentator Ron Barassi, is an imaginary, but potent, fissure. It runs from northwest to southeast, splitting Australia's population, if not its geography, roughly in half.
To the west of the line (Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Darwin, Tasmania) lies Australian rules football country. East of it (Sydney, Brisbane, Canberra) is rugby territory. The latter comes in two forms: rugby union, comprising teams of 15 players and broadly considered middle class; and rugby league, the more popular and more blue collar version played with teams of 13.
Traditionally, relations between those various sports -- the so-called football codes -- are frosty. They have tended to hover, in fact, somewhere between resolutely competitive and downright hostile, a phenomenon known in Australia as the code wars. The battle is a prominent enough feature of the country's cultural landscape for Fujak to have used it as the title of a book on the subject.
"All of the codes have historically been resistant to each other's success," Fujak said. In part, the motivation is just business: Australia may be an immense country, but its population is relatively small.
The A.F.L. and the N.R.L. -- the national rugby league tournament -- are competing for the same limited number of eyeballs, broadcast deals, commercial revenue and governmental subsidy. The working assumption has always been that one's rise must come at the expense of the other. "There are only so many people to go around," Fujak said. "You would expect that of Coke and Pepsi, so why would the sports leagues be any different?"
The enmity is so keenly felt, though, because it runs significantly deeper than mere mercantile instinct. "There's a very strong rivalry at the cultural level," Fujak said. "At a fan level, the sport you follow is inseparable from identity. For Victorians, being an A.F.L. fan is part of who you are, where you're from."
In that power struggle, soccer has long been little more than collateral damage. If the A.F.L. and N.R.L. have cast themselves as not just authentically Australian but as a central pillar of a localized identity, soccer has been projected as an often unwelcome import.
Though it has always been popular as a participatory sport, the game -- as one notorious, offensive mantra put it -- was long cast as a lesser form, simultaneously effeminate, foreign and homosexual. Craig Foster, a former Australia player and now a human-rights activist, recently told the BBC that the A.F.L., in particular, has been "antagonistic" toward soccer.
That animosity has manifested in both the practical -- refusing soccer teams access to its facilities, declining to allow its stadiums to be used as part of Australia's doomed bid to host the 2022 men's World Cup -- and the petty.
It was noted, for example, that the A.F.L. chose to release its schedule for this season at almost the exact minute Australia's men's team kicked off against Argentina in the men's World Cup last year. The A.F.L. has always maintained it was just a quirk of timing.
In the weeks leading up to the Women's World Cup, it appeared little had changed. Though several rugby league stadiums were slated to host matches, the A.F.L. had not been willing to surrender its largest arenas, the M.C.G. and the Sydney Cricket Ground, two of Australia's best-known venues.
That posture, Fujak said, was not unreasonable: FIFA's rules would have required the A.F.L. to vacate its two major arenas for two months at the very height of the season. "The demands were too onerous," he said. Still, it did not exactly suggest that Australia's other sports were about to show the Women's World Cup, or the Matildas, much hospitality.
Over the last few weeks, that concern has been proved demonstrably false. "This is without doubt one of the most exciting times to be an Australian sports fan in the country's history," said Andrew Abdo, the N.R.L.'s chief executive. "The Matildas' performances in the World Cup have made a monumental contribution to the rise of women's sport in Australia."
In deeds, as much as in words, the A.F.L. has been no less effusive. It has moved kickoff times to accommodate Matildas games. On Saturday, it broadcast the France quarterfinal before, during and after games in Melbourne and Sydney.
Matthew Nicks, the head coach of the Adelaide Crows, admitted he would rather "be watching the Matildas" than guiding his team in a game against the Brisbane Lions. He and his counterpart, Chris Fagan, were filmed watching the penalty shootout on a phone when they were supposed to be conducting their postgame media duties.
Both codes of football, the commentator George Megalogenis wrote in The Brisbane Times, have been "dreading the moment that soccer holds the nation's attention, and now that moment is here." So compelling has the Matildas' journey been, though, that they have melted away every last vestige of resistance.
Foster, the former men's player, believes that has been rooted more in pragmatism than a fundamental, lasting shift in the way the codes regard each other. The A.F.L. agreed to show the France game in its stadiums because "it was worried nobody would turn up" for the fixtures otherwise, he said.
Fujak, too, suggested that willfully ignoring the tournament would have made the A.F.L. look "sulky and negative" at a moment of uplifting national unity. "It's the most strategically astute sports league in the country," he said. "It might be cynical, but I think they saw it as the lesser of two evils."
He wondered if the A.F.L. had made something of a calculation. "They've always played the long game," he said. "Soccer has moments of success but, come the end of the tournament, it fades away again."
The risk, this time, is that the effect will be more lasting, that this tournament has on some level reshaped Australia's entrenched sporting landscape. The code wars may rumble on, in some form, but the Matildas, at least, have risen above them. They have become, in three short weeks, a core part of the country's identity.
Photograph Fans at the Australia-France quarterfinal in Brisbane Stadium, top and right, and at Stadium Australia in Sydney, above right, fervently supported the Matildas on Saturday. Top, Australia's Sam Kerr (20) and her teammates thanked them after the game, won in a penalty kick shootout. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QUINN ROONEY/GETTY IMAGES; RICK RYCROFT/ASSOCIATED PRESS; DAN PELED/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B10.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Codes; Cricket; Women; Coaches & managers; Soccer; Rugby; Australian football

Location: Australia; France

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/15/sports/soccer/womens-world-cup-australia.html

Title: Matildas Unite a Land Split, Culturally and Geographically, Over Footy:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 16, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2850989633

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/matildas-unite-land-split-culturally/docview/2850989633/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Making the Most of Coveted Patios and Terraces: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Mckeough, Tim

Publication info: Mckeough, Tim. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-most-coveted-patios-terraces/docview/2849425762/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Designers Christine and John Gachot should know how to furnish an outdoor space: Their rental has six. Here's their step-by-step guide.
It's hard to beat summer in the city -- except maybe on the very hottest days. And if you're lucky enough to have a little outdoor space, like a balcony, terrace or patio, it's even better.
But how to make the most of that prime real estate?
Christine and John Gachot, the designers who founded the New York interiors studio Gachot, have a little experience with that. Not only have they designed homes and city hot spots like Pebble Bar and Jac's on Bond, they have a Midtown rental with six balconies and terraces. That's right: six.
The multilevel penthouse once belonged to the revered modernist architect Paul Rudolph, and it has a sweeping view of the East River, Roosevelt Island and the Pepsi-Cola sign in Long Island City from the largest terrace on the top level. Not surprisingly, that's where they spend most of their free time.
"Having an outdoor space in the city is incredible," said Mr. Gachot, 53. It can serve as a personal refuge, he noted, or a space for entertaining. It can even stand in for a summer house (without the annoying drive).
Despite the impressive setting, they go for a casual, comfortable vibe on their terrace, whether they're preparing for a quiet evening in or a celebration with friends.
"You want it to feel as good as an indoor room," said Ms. Gachot, 54. "But you never want to be too precious. It should put a smile on your face."
The couple recently showed a reporter how they get their terrace ready for a day of entertaining.
Care for the Containers
Mr. Gachot begins each day by watering the containers on the terrace, which the couple planted with hydrangeas, echinacea and mandevilla.
But before entertaining friends, they examine their plants more closely and prune, deadhead and water them again. Few things look sadder on a sunny afternoon than drooping flowers.
Create a Seating Area
To define a seating area and create a space that's comfortable for bare feet, the Gachots roll out an outdoor rug made from synthetic sisal.
Otherwise, "the stone gets really hot," Ms. Gachot said. "A rug creates the feeling of an interior room, and people can sit on it comfortably."
On top, they place eucalyptus chairs based on a design by Gerrit Rietveld, which they leave out all summer long, along with a coffee table. For additional seating, they unfold butterfly-style chairs stashed in a closet, slipping on inexpensive canvas slings they bought on Amazon.
Add Pillows and Throws
To soften the seating, they use pillows and throws made from outdoor fabrics, many found at Alt for Living.
"You always want super-comfortable seating," Ms. Gachot said. "To be ready for extra people, we'll pull in floor cushions, too."
They use pillows in various shapes and sizes, upholstered in off-white and black fabrics, for a casual look. "I love black at the beach, or on a terrace," Ms. Gachot said.
When they're not spending time on the terrace, they stow the accessories in a closet just inside the apartment.
Bring in Light and Sound
To prepare for sunset, they bring out portable lanterns. Of course, there are also string lights overhead -- but creating several layers of light is as important outdoors as in.
"There should be a hierarchy of lighting," Ms. Gachot said. "In this case, you have a canopy of overhead light, but then we also want something lower."
The couple used to have battery-powered lanterns with open tops, but discovered that they filled with rainwater and always required cleaning and charging. So they switched to closed teak lanterns from Les Jardins that use solar panels to recharge during the day.
Music is also important for creating the right mood. Portable speakers make bringing sound outside easier than ever (the couple use a Sonos Move).
Prepare a Bar
The Gachots don't have an outdoor kitchen, but they still create a bar whenever they have friends over, by adding attractive wooden trays to a Uline rolling wire cart, along with a silver bowl to hold bottles of rosé on ice.
Next to it, they plunk down a vintage-style Coleman cooler filled with beer, cold-brew coffee and sparkling water.
Mr. Gachot also likes to put out bar accessories -- coasters, cocktail shakers, small plates, cloth napkins -- even if they won't be used, to add to the sense of occasion. "That's the smoke and mirrors," he said.
Provide Entertainment
As a finishing touch, the Gachots sometimes put out vases of cut flowers, and they always make sure there are snacks at the ready. But to inspire activities beyond lounging in the sun, they include diversions like board games, books and binoculars.
"There's a bit of that 'Rear Window' factor," Mr. Gachot said, recalling the 1954 Alfred Hitchcock film. "The binoculars are part of that. You can get up and look around, down on rooftops or into gardens, and you just see some of the most interesting things."
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph Above left, Christine and John Gachot on their terrace, one of their Midtown Manhattan rental's six outdoor spaces. Top, the terrace has "a canopy" of string lights overhead, as well as portable lanterns, comfy seating and lots of entertainment. Above right, the Gachots create a bar by adding wooden trays to a Uline rolling wire cart, along with a silver bowl to hold bottles of rosé on ice. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEFANO UKMAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE5.

Subject: Outdoors; Designers

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/04/realestate/decorate-patio-summer.html

Title: Making the Most of Coveted Patios and Terraces:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 13, 2023

column: How To: Decorate An Outdoor Space

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849425762

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/making-most-coveted-patios-terraces/docview/2849425762/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

We're in the Era of the 'Top Gun' C.E.O.: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/were-era-top-gun-c-e-o/docview/2843499844/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Work is war -- or it can feel that way to certain executives. To meet the moment, they're getting in a cockpit.
"Your company is about to go on a rescue," declared Christian Boucousis, who goes by the name Boo at work. "One of your company members went out to do reconnaissance and was shot down. Now you're going to rescue your teammate and bring them home."
Mr. Boucousis, a former fighter pilot, is chief executive of an organization called Afterburner, which promises to teach "the same precision and accuracy as elite military aviators" to corporate clients. His firm has worked with Nike, Pepsi, Bank of America and many other brands. These businesses aren't struggling to save teammates shot down by enemy squadrons. Their problems? Market competition, shareholder pressures, employee turnover.
Some corporate executives find it thrilling, though, to spend a few hours feeling less like C-suite dwellers and more like Tom Cruise.Even for a significant cost: Afterburner's "Top Gun Experience" training starts at $ 10,000 for a small team and can climb to $ 100,000 for a larger one.
"If you lose sight of the airplane you're fighting against, you lose the fight," Mr. Boucousis said. "We use that as a metaphor -- if you lose sight of your business objectives, you're not going to achieve them."
There are a lot metaphors at work in this growing field: The office as battlefield. Landing the plane in a tough quarter. Rallying the troops for a product launch.
Work is war -- or it can feel that way to certain chief executives. To meet the moment, it's the era of Top Gun-style leadership training.
Many business leaders responded to the last few years of uncertainty -- work force churn, return-to-office struggles, economic flux -- by bringing softer, more emotional conversations into boardrooms. Some encouraged open discussions of employee mental health in the office. One chief executive, drawing backlash, even posted a selfie on LinkedIn showing tears streaming down his face after he laid off two employees.
Others went in the opposite direction, embracing a new style of corporate machismo. Elon Musk challenged Mark Zuckerberg to a cage match; Mr. Zuckerberg, who has been training in Brazilian jiujitsu over the past 18 months, texted the president of the Ultimate Fighting Championship to see if his rival had been serious about the proposition.
Corporate offices have long been filled with signs of aggression: shouting, cursing, traders pacing the floors with lacrosse sticks. Many of those came under scrutiny amid a push for more diversity and inclusion in the corporate world. But during times of economic pressure, the chest-thumping can sometimes come back in full force, some management experts say.
"Leaders are trying to regain a sense of control they feel they've lost over the last few years," said Cali Williams Yost, a workplace strategist. "They're searching to reassert control and power in a way that feels familiar."
Companies have long valued military experience in hiring. Hollywood has for decades valorized military leaders as the ultimate examples of strength. But now corporate executives are actually play acting as military members. Hundreds of companies are turning to unorthodox programs that use fighter pilot simulations, military principles and even NASCAR pit stop techniques to train business executives on responding to uncertainty and flux.
Women can and do participate in these trainings, but many of the companies offering them are run by men -- a source of concern for some management experts, who say workers are looking for more empathic leadership styles, not hyperaggressive ones. The share of Fortune 500 companies run by women only just crept over the 10 percent mark this year.
"I don't think it aligns with what most people say they're looking for in a leader, which is human-centric, empathetic, collaborative," Ms. Yost added.
I spent two hours doing my own F35 flight simulation through a company called the Squadron, which has an office in the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan. I put on a jumpsuit, sat behind a simulator and tried to navigate a fighter plane around Lake Mead, near Las Vegas. The Squadron team told me I should be aiming to crash no more than two times. I crashed five times.
A trainer had explained preflight that crashing isn't all bad: "If you didn't crash, what's the cost? You didn't take any chances."
Five crashes also wasn't ideal. "Plan better and know which targets you want to take," another Squadron trainer advised me. "Planning is big money for you."
Walking around the Squadron's office, I met Tal Kerret, president of Silverstein Properties, which controls the lease on the World Trade Center site, who told me he had completed the F35 simulation and encouraged his employees to do the same.
"I need my team to perform under pressure," Mr. Kerret said, explaining the stress of owning corporate real estate in New York City right now, as the industry endures its own crash driven by remote work. "We live in a world of risk. When you buy a property, when you develop a property, it's an impossible thing to do something with zero risk."
For clients of Afterburner and the Squadron (which came to New York in 2022), the experience of going on a fighter jet mission is not really the point. What's more important is the debrief that follows the mission, when teammates discuss their weaknesses and identify the causes of their mistakes, so they can avoid those errors going forward.
"We come back after a mission and ask ourselves, 'Hey, what did we set out to achieve today?"' Mr. Boucousis said.
Military veterans, like Jocko Willink, a former Navy SEAL, are unsurprised that a period of workplace chaos is pushing companies to rethink management, sometimes in extreme ways.
"The pandemic revealed that we need better leadership," Mr. Willink said. "When people aren't coming into work and you no longer see them every day, you have to use better decentralized command. That's a classic law of combat leadership."
Mr. Willink recalled a frightening operation during his time as a SEAL when he had to send his team to an isolated area where he wouldn't be able to support them. "A lot was riding on my guys being able to execute their mission," he said, adding that business leaders also have to constantly weigh risk. "It's not the same consequences, but you have a lot riding on your shoulders."
Whether Navy SEALS wisdom translates to a product release, though, isn't clear. "The question is -- is it meant to be fun? Is it meant to be photographed? Or is it meant to be impactful?" Melissa Nightingale, a co-founder of the management training firm Raw Signal Group, said of professional development. "About 75 percent of professional development efforts fall on the floor."
Still, regardless of how fleeting the benefits, the management machismo keeps spreading, as companies clamor to train their employees in ways that don't involve a Zoom screen. Like, for example, in a racecar pit.
In Raleigh, N.C., a financial technology company called Constellation Digital Partners brought its employees together -- some meeting in person for the first time -- to simulate a NASCAR pit stop. The training was facilitated by a company called Over the Wall, which was started by a former NASCAR pit crew coach, Andy Papathanassiou; rates start at $ 10,000 and vary depending on the size of the group and how much time it spends training.
Constellation's roughly 30 employees gathered in their office parking lot around a green racecar. The employees took off lug nuts with an air wrench, hoisted off the car's 50-pound tire, swapped in a new tire and got the lug nuts back on. They were dripping in sweat, sunscreen and grease, looking like the harried pit stop crew members of the Tom Cruise movie "Days of Thunder."
"It sounds silly for me to say, but the hardest part is actually getting the tire on," said Kris Kovacs, the company's chief executive. "What that teaches you is you've got to preplan. Hard things, if you practice at them and preplan, become easier and easier."
In the months after the training, Mr. Kovacs said he saw his staff become more communicative. They understood how to share their weak points with one another.
"You can do all the 'Kumbaya' trust fall stuff," he said. "Or you can get dirty with your team throwing tires onto NASCARs."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page BU3.

Subject: Leadership; Training; Employees; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Leadership Training Employees Executives

People: Cruise, Tom

Company / organization: Name: World Trade Center-New York City NY; NAICS: 813910; Name: National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing; NAICS: 711320, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/30/business/were-in-the-era-of-the-top-gun-ceo.html

Title: We're in the Era of the 'Top Gun' C.E.O.:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 30, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843499844

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/were-era-top-gun-c-e-o/docview/2843499844/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 30, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-30

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Seeking the True Taste of Alaska? Try a Truck.: [Travel Desk]

Author: Glusac, Elaine

Publication info: Glusac, Elaine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seeking-true-taste-alaska-try-truck/docview/2843296465/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Pop-ups, trailers, carts and trucks serve rockfish tacos, halibut ceviche and more at affordable prices on a homegrown coastal culinary trail.
Last summer, on an overcast July day, the coastal town of Sitka, once the capital of Russian Alaska and long a popular stop on Inside Passage cruises in Southeast Alaska, was thronged with passengers disembarking from three cruise ships. To accommodate the crowds, the city had closed the main street to cars. In their place, food trucks, carts and stands had popped up, creating a festival atmosphere where ambulatory diners spooned seafood chowder and gobbled tacos.
"In summer, street food seems like the way to go in a place like this," said Gretchen Stelzenmuller, who cooked professionally in San Francisco before moving back home to Sitka during the pandemic and opening her mobile food business, Enoki Eatery, which serves Japanese-inspired comfort food. "It's healthy and uniquely celebrates Alaska ingredients, but you can also roll in and grab a bite and still do your tour."
In the wake of the pandemic, as cruising returns to full strength in Alaska, food trucks and other vendors have proliferated in ports from Ketchikan to Seward.
"With a food truck, you can get into the restaurant business without the full brick-and-mortar entrepreneurial costs," said Jon Bittner, the state director of the Alaska Small Business Development Center. "That's pretty attractive in smaller communities that service cruise ships."
For passengers with only a few hours in port and lots to see -- including ferry riders taking the Alaska Marine Highway -- food trucks offer local fare at relatively reasonable prices and in less time than full-service restaurants.
"Food trucks are a natural extension of what draws people to Alaska, being outside," said Aaron Saunders, the senior editor at Cruise Critic.
Expect to pay a little more than in the Lower 48, given the high cost of living. Last summer, I bought a chicken and rice dish for $ 16 from a stand in Seward, a few dollars more and a free can of Pepsi less than the equivalent truck fare in New York City.
For the 2023 cruise season, which generally runs April to October, Alaska cruise authorities expect 1.65 million cruise passengers, up from the record of 1.3 million in 2019. Most will sail the Inside Passage, a roughly 500-mile route in Southeast Alaska that weaves through islands protecting it from the churn of the Pacific Ocean.
While ship-bound visitors may make their way through Anchorage -- which has its own thriving food truck scene -- the following popular cruise stops form a locally grown coastal culinary trail.
Ketchikan: Shrimp and grits and fried chicken sandwiches
Often the first call in Alaska for northbound Inside Passage cruises, Ketchikan -- a traditional Tlingit fishing camp that today thrives on tourism, commercial fishing and forestry -- booms with the arrival of cruise ships. Passengers disembarking for day trips in the Tongass National Forest or to see the totem poles at Saxman Native Village will find a few food stalls among the vendor booths on the cruise dock -- including D's Fish and Chip Shack -- while more robust food-truck offerings can be found within walking distance.
"If you want to see someone make out with a chicken sandwich, come by our truck sometime," wrote Thane Peterson, the owner of the food truck Chicke Chicke Bang Bang, which specializes in chicken sandwiches ( $ 12), in an email. He described diners with "eyes closed, groaning, mumbling 'Oh my god."'
The truck, which launched last year, can often be found parked near the cruise docks, and passengers, Mr. Peterson said, account for two-thirds of annual sales.
A few blocks from the cruise berths, Amber Adams aims to open the town's first food truck lot, Dock Street Yard, in August with room for three vendors.
After moving to Ketchikan from New Orleans four years ago, Ms. Adams found herself cooking Creole dishes with Alaskan ingredients as both a reminder of home and a necessity in a small town with few dining options. Currently the only tenant on the lot, her business, the Food Truck, will serve shrimp and grits ( $ 15) and rib-eye banh mi po' boys ( $ 18).
"Starting a restaurant is scary," Ms. Adams said on a break from prepping her truck. "But it's a different beast here because of the huge influx of people for six months that basically doubles the population in town."
Sitka: Smoked salmon musubi and seafood chowder
In the high season, disembarking passengers can match Sitka's population of about 8,500. Again this year, the city is restricting the main thoroughfare, Lincoln Street, to foot traffic on days when cruise ship capacity in port exceeds 5,000, inviting mobile businesses to set up.
"I think it's a really great way to showcase all the talent in this town," said Ms. Stelzenmuller, who launched Enoki Eatery last year as a Lincoln Street pop-up serving variations of Hawaiian-style musubi, a wedge of rice topped with Spam or fish and bound by a seaweed wrap. "Street food should be a reason to come here."
This year, she purchased a food truck and parked it downtown. The vehicle has allowed her to expand the menu, which may include steamed buns stuffed with pork or salmon and cream cheese ( $ 9) and smoked salmon musubi ( $ 8.50).
Just off Lincoln Street, behind Ernie's Old Time Saloon, Barbara Palacios serves poke, chowder and ceviche from her cart, the Fresh Fish.
"We're having a food-truck boom here in Sitka," said Ms. Palacios, who plans to upgrade her vehicle later this year to a full-size food truck and continue offering poke (tuna or salmon, $ 18), halibut ceviche ( $ 14) and seafood chowder ( $ 9 a cup, $ 14 a bowl).
"It's a labor of passion and love," said Ms. Palacios, who often works 12 hours a day in season.
A few blocks east, past the Russian Orthodox St. Michael's Cathedral, Ashley McNamee runs Ashmo's, serving locally caught fish in smoked salmon macaroni and cheese ( $ 9), black cod on coconut rice ( $ 10) and lingcod sandwiches ( $ 12).
Like many food truck operators here, Ms. McNamee, whose résumé includes 14 years cooking at an Alaskan fishing lodge, chose the food truck over "the restaurant grind." Still, she added, "With the influx of people off cruise ships, it's almost all I can do to keep up."
From the center of town, it's a little over a mile to Harbor Mountain Brewing Co., where Cambria Goodwin and Luke Bruckert base their brick-and-mortar Campfire Kitchen, a wood-oven pizza specialist. This year, they've added a mobile kitchen at the site to prepare fried chicken sandwiches ( $ 15) and fried cheese curds ( $ 9) to keep up with the crush of business.
In a separate endeavor, Ms. Goodwin recently opened Sitka Salmon Wagon, serving salmon bisque ( $ 10 a cup, $ 16 a bowl) from a trailer parked downtown "to feed the masses," she said.
The weather can be a challenge to outdoor dining in Southeast Alaska's temperate rainforest. After one year running Blumen Dogs hot dog cart, Shawn Blumenshine is adding a food truck and will operate in several locations, serving Nathan's Famous franks ( $ 7) and creative versions ( $ 11), including the Banh Mi Dog with carrots, cabbage, jalapeños, vinaigrette and sweet chili sauce. To date, patrons are largely local. "I've got hardcore banh mi fans," said Mr. Blumenshine.
Juneau: Fish tacos and potato pizza
The state capital, Juneau, is no stranger to food carts and trucks. Trailblazers in town include Bernadette's, a Filipino barbecue cart started in 1996 that draws lines of visiting cruise ship crew members, many of whom are Filipino, and Pucker Wilson's, opened nine years ago, and dishing two-fisted burgers like the Huskey Dawson topped with bacon, onion rings and cheese ( $ 16).
Visitors looking for Alaskan seafood on the go will find it a few blocks from the cruise pier at Deckhand Dave's, a fish taco purveyor that anchors a food-truck yard. The truck and yard are run by Dave McCasland, a self-taught chef who worked for two years as a cook on a commercial fishing boat to pay off his college loans before launching his truck in 2016 with items like blackened rockfish tacos ( $ 13.50 for three).
In 2019, he developed the food truck lot with room for the original business, a spinoff oyster and champagne bar and other mobile tenants, today including the Alaskan Crepe Escape and a cotton candy maker.
"People travel for a taste of place, and when they come to Alaska they really want to eat seafood and eat local," said Midgi Moore, who runs Juneau Food Tours, guiding visitors to places like Deckhand Dave's.
Five miles from downtown, in the direction of the Mendenhall Glacier, the Alaskan Brewing Company tasting room hosts food trucks, including Forno Rosso, serving wood-fired Neapolitan-style pizzas ( $ 13 to $ 17 for 10-inch pies). Before moving to Juneau, the truck's owners, Alexander and Kym Kotlarov, lived in Rome where they developed a passion for pizza that led to the mobile business named for their red-tiled oven.
If visitors find out-of-the-way Forno Rosso, they tend to be independent travelers or craft beer fans, according to Ms. Kotlarov, who uses specialty flour, San Marzano tomatoes from California and locally grown Genovese basil.
"I feel like we're swimming upstream with our agenda of caring about quality and staying true to the Italian thing," Ms. Kotlarov said, noting that she continues to offer Italian potato pizza as a special periodically.
Seward: Reindeer hot dogs and birria plates
A port on the Kenai Peninsula, roughly 130 miles south of Anchorage, Seward tends to get cruise ships at the start or end of their itineraries. On the road system, it also draws travelers by land.
"They disembark and embark in Seward," said Kameron Weathers, the owner of Wild Spoon food truck and catering company. "We're not a stop."
Still, ship crew and road-trippers patronize her stand for souped-up reindeer or buffalo dogs topped with beet kimchi and ginger aioli ( $ 10), and venison specials.
In summer 2020, despite the collapse of tourism during the pandemic, Faith Alderman and Fiona Crosby launched their breakfast-and-lunch business, the Porthole, to capture the early morning traffic at Seward Harbor with breakfast burritos ( $ 12) and English muffin sandwiches ( $ 8). Open at 4:30 a.m., the business draws captains, deckhands and visitors taking boat trips to the nearby Kenai Fjords National Park.
Seward travelers bound for Alaska SeaLife Center, an aquarium and marine research center on Resurrection Bay, can't miss Los Chanchitos, a busy Mexican food truck that anchors a nearby lot shared by Early Bird coffee truck and an ax-throwing business. It specializes in birria or beef brisket tacos ( $ 17), among other fare.
Peter Cavaretta, who spent more than a decade in the southern Baja Peninsula, opened the truck last April after visiting his sister in Seward and seeing "lines out the door for semi-average food at high prices," he said. "I wanted to do super-good food at moderate prices."
Follow New York Times Travel on Instagram and sign up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter to get expert tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation. Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out our 52 Places to Go in 2023 .
Photograph Top, Carter Miller, of Pucker Wilson's in Juneau. Center from left: Deckhand Dave's food-truck yard near the cruise pier in Juneau; and the Japanese- inspired Enoki Eatery in Sitka. Above, Ayla Henry with a crepe from Alaskan Crepe Escape in Juneau. Above that, oysters on a grill at Deckhand Dave's yard. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER MILLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page C8.

Subject: Ships; Sandwiches; Food trucks; Pandemics; Mobile businesses; Vendors; Rice; Seafood; Restaurants; Commercial fishing; Salmon; Fish

Business indexing term: Subject: Restaurants Commercial fishing

Location: Inside Passage; United States--US; Alaska

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/18/travel/alaska-food-trucks.html

Title: Seeking the True Taste of Alaska? Try a Truck.:   [Travel Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 29, 2023

column: Frugal Traveler

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2843296465

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/seeking-true-taste-alaska-try-truck/docview/2843296465/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 29, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-29

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Major Brands Keep Raising Prices, Complicating Fed's Inflation Fight: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/major-brands-keep-raising-prices-complicating/docview/2842321390/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Unilever have each reported raising prices significantly in the second quarter, complicating the Federal Reserve's efforts to tame inflation.
Some of the largest consumer brands in the country have continued to raise prices aggressively this year while raking in large profits, posing a tough problem for the Federal Reserve as it aims to tame inflation.
Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Unilever have each reported raising prices significantly in the second quarter, from about 8 percent at Unilever to 15 percent at Pepsi. The price increases powered sales growth last quarter, keeping earnings strong even as the volume of products they sold either went down or remained flat versus the same period last year. The companies raised their full-year forecasts for various measures, pushing up their share prices.
The Fed's main tool to tackle inflation is raising interest rates, which reduces demand for goods and services. But food prices can be particularly sticky: Unlike other goods, food is something that consumers cannot stop buying, and food prices are particularly sensitive to external factors like supply shocks, ingredient prices and geopolitics. Escalating Russian attacks in Ukraine and the recent breakdown of a deal to export grain from Black Sea ports have put pressure on prices for key commodities like corn and wheat.
"The Fed really has no ability to resolve those issues," said David Ortega, a food economist at Michigan State University.
Prices for consumer goods in the United States have moderated, though inflation is still higher than the Federal Reserve's goal. Food prices rose 5.7 percent over the year through June, according to the Consumer Price Index.
Coca-Cola said on Wednesday that its profit last quarter rose 33 percent from a year earlier, to $ 2.5 billion. "In a world with a wide spectrum of market dynamics from inflation to currency devaluation to shifting consumer needs, our business is proving to be very resilient," James Quincey, Coca-Cola's chief executive, told analysts on a call.
Unilever, which makes products like Dove soap and Hellmann's mayonnaise, on Tuesday reported 20 percent growth in profit, to $ 5 billion, in the first half of the year, compared with the same period last year.
Unilever's ice cream brands, which include Ben & Jerry's and Magnum, have become particularly more expensive: Prices were up more than 12 percent while the amount sold was down about 6 percent in the second quarter.
PepsiCo, which makes Gatorade sports drinks, Lay's potato chips and Quaker Oats, reported this month that its second-quarter revenue grew 10 percent and that its profit doubled, to $ 2.7 billion, from a year earlier.
The companies have cited a strong labor market, in which wages are growing, as source of increased spending.
"We've been able to raise prices and consumers stay within our brands," Ramon Laguarta, chief executive of Pepsi, said on a call with analysts.
However, Unilever's chief financial officer, Graeme Pitkethly, told analysts on Tuesday that "sentiment is dropping and consumers are starting to show signs of caution" with more consumers turning to generic brands.
Photograph Food prices can be especially sticky because of external factors like commodities prices and geopolitics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSÉ A. ALVARADO JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Subject: Consumers; Inflation; Geopolitics; Consumer Price Index; Price increases; Food prices; Profits; Consumer goods

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Inflation Consumer Price Index Price increases Food prices Profits Consumer goods

Company / organization: Name: Unilever PLC; NAICS: 311421, 311512, 311520, 311941, 325611, 325620; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/business/food-prices-fed-inflation.html

Title: Major Brands Keep Raising Prices, Complicating Fed's Inflation Fight:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 27, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2842321390

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/major-brands-keep-raising-prices-complicating/docview/2842321390/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 27, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Is Gen Z Down to Clown?: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-gen-z-down-clown/docview/2840700146/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Cirque du Soleil is hoping that it can expand its audience, perhaps with perfume that smells like a trapeze artist or a couch that embodies the spirit of clowning.
The circus is a thrill, a locus of nostalgia for people who remember summers with family members under colorful tents, a beloved amalgam of the athletic and the absurd, the rare place where jugglers and acrobats and fire breathers can fly free, fodder for countless movies and a Dr. Seuss book -- and, not to be a downer, a business.
The circus has to make money to keep its clowns clowning.
Coming out of the pandemic, Cirque du Soleil was in trouble. The company had staked nearly all its revenue in live shows, with their dizzying displays of balletic grace and gravity-defying gymnastics. After filing for bankruptcy protection in 2020, Cirque decided it had to be more than just a circus. It wanted to be a brand, something that could sell perfumes, sunglasses, tote bags and video games. So over the past year the circus brought in consultants, which yielded months of meetings peppered with phrases like these.
"I think there's a real opportunity to elevate the art of clowning."
"Don't focus on the Cirque, focus on the Soleil."
"We want to think of Soleil as the building blocks of vibe."
"We've thrown a lot at you."
"Lots of Soleil!"
"So much Soleil."
Cirque du Soleil hired a "cultural analysts" firm, called Cultique, to answer an age-old question: Is it possible to hack popularity?
Cultique argues that it is. Analysts there are in the business of selling cool. And their work with the circus this year has offered a glimpse into what it takes to change a business's reputation, to do a brand makeover at a time when social media has made branding both more important than ever and more fraught.
Cirque's leaders felt confident that their company embodied everything Gen Z loves: campy outfits, kitschy makeup, feats of athletic daring. Sequins, spandex, being extra. Yet few of that generation -- people born from 1997 to 2012, who now have $ 360 billion in consumer power -- seemed interested in the circus. Cirque's more than 40 shows sell 10 million tickets a year around the world, with a focus on its American home in Las Vegas, but mostly to a middle-age (or very young) audience. The average Cirque attendee is 42, according to the company. More than two-thirds have children under 18.
Cirque du Soleil turned to Cultique to become relevant. And Cultique promised, improbably, that even at a moment when culture seems to move at the speed of (sorry) a flying trapeze, it's possible for a savvy old business to catch up.
"We literally help people get ahead of the curve," said Linda Ong, Cultique's co-founder and chief executive, later adding, "The secret sauce to our business is we help brands anticipate what's going to change before it's widely acknowledged."
It's not exactly obvious how to define culture. It's everything we wear (crochet, sheer); listen to (Dua Lipa, Doja Cat); watch ("Real Housewives," "Barbie"). Ms. Ong uses water-based metaphors to describe it. Culture is a wave. You can ride it or get pulled under.
Seemingly invincible brands have shown what it's like to feel the culture wave crash. Pepsi ended up pulling a 2017 advertisement that showed Kendall Jenner handing a soda can to a police officer. Bud Light lost its status as America's top-selling beer after it faced backlash for a video from a transgender influencer promoting the beer this spring. If culture is water, the surface is murky.
Enter Ms. Ong and her business partner, Sarah Unger, who promise to help companies devise business strategies, marketing campaigns and products that appeal to cultural sensibilities -- before those sensibilities are even fully formed. Cultique doesn't rely much on data. Ms. Ong and Ms. Unger believe that once trends show up in surveys, it's too late. It's best to identify cultural obsessions before they're on TikTok, before young people are talking about them, right before anyone recognizes they're real.
"There are two kinds of people," Ms. Ong, 60, said. "People who get turned on by culture and people who don't understand it."
The notion that anyone -- let alone a 60-year-old and 37-year-old corporate duo Zooming from Los Angeles -- can describe cultural fixations before they manifest sounds dubious. Popular culture, after all, is not all that different from other cultures, like cheese, yogurt or kombucha. It's alive. It's organic. It isn't designed by some all-knowing authority. It just happens.
But Cultique's founders swear that cultural relevance, like any element of business, can be studied and controlled. Last year, that work brought in $ 3.8 million in revenue for Cultique, which has just two full-time employees and typically a dozen or so contractors. Skeptical, I decided to follow them as they took on the task of transforming Cirque du Soleil.
'How Do We Become the Theme at the Met Gala?'
Everyone at Cirque du Soleil was astounded to hear I'd never been to Cirque du Soleil.
"It's your first Cirque?" said the company's senior tour director, Michael Veilleux, during intermission at a Cirque show called Corteo (theme: funeral meets carnival) in Newark. "You don't meet many people who it's their first Cirque."
He really doesn't. That's partly the problem.
Cirque's shows, as I witnessed, have pole dancers, upside-down shoes without feet and clowns dressed up like horse butts. They have audiences of parents looking harried and children chucking popcorn on the floor. What they don't seem to have is an expansive base of young adult fans.
It was Covid that prompted Cirque du Soleil's existential crisis, and decision to chase a new cultural image. After Cirque's executives tended to all their immediate March 2020 demands -- sending performers home, storing hoops and silks away in warehouses -- the Montreal-based company furloughed 95 percent of its 5,000-person staff. Only roughly 150 remained. After vaccines, as the circus began to rehire those workers, executives swore they'd pandemic-proof their business. Cirque couldn't be entirely reliant on its performances.
Today, about 80 percent of its revenue comes from live shows. The company's chief growth officer, Nickole Tara, can envision a time when performances will account for just 20 percent of the revenue stream.
Executives at Cirque are experimenting with anything a young person curious about the circus might buy. A video game called Cirque du Soleil Tycoon set for release on July 28, with the gaming company Roblox, in which players can build their own circus world. A signature fragrance (for the clown lover in your life) and a line of home goods (think maximalist rugs and psychedelic curtains). Corporate partnerships with companies like Motorola, which introduced its new flip phone in an event in June produced with Cirque.
Cirque is working on a television documentary series, likely to be called "Down to Clown." It is planning a convention styled after Comic-Con, the fantasy events that draw tens of thousands of people annually, which it hopes to launch this year.
"We are going to try so many new things," said the circus's head of growth, Ms. Tara, 39, who last year left the music festival world for a newly created leadership position at Cirque. "We have to embrace the Cirque of the modern era."
Some brands ooze the kind of cachet that people want to wear. Supreme sneakers. Kylie cosmetics. Others have to think a little harder about the version of themselves that they could commodify -- like how to turn a zany old circus into a brand people consider relevant.
On this question, Cultique has been full of ideas, especially during a meeting in early March, when a handful of Cirque executives joined its cultural analysts to discuss what success would look like for their partnership.
"How do we become the theme at the Met Gala?" Ms. Tara mused.
"It's not a crazy idea," Ms. Ong responded. "How do you make your events the Met Gala equivalent?"
The assembled group -- which included Cirque's head of global branding and social media, Chris Bower, and the Cultique analyst Rajiv Menon -- agreed that it wanted Cirque to be ubiquitous. They wanted people to wonder why everywhere they looked there was Cirque du Soleil. Roaming Art Basel. Holding court at New York Fashion Week. Spotted with Jenna Ortega. Partnering with Versace.
"'Oh my God, everywhere I turn Cirque is doing cool things with cool people,"' Ms. Ong said, imagining the party chatter she wants to generate.
To Ms. Ong, this doesn't seem like an inordinately tall order, because she already sees young people embracing the qualities associated with the circus, especially over-the-top performance. They're just not making the connection to Cirque's business. In her mind, Cirque needs to publicly own the themes percolating in culture, what she and Ms. Unger refer to as "the Soleil Strategy."
"It's like porn," Ms. Ong said. "Everybody knows the Cirque du Soleil vibe when they see it."
The Zeitgeist Whisperers
You'd be forgiven for thinking "cultural analysis" was required reading for a humanities seminar, or a mash-up of modern art and Freud. But for Cultique, it's a business venture, which can feel like a surprise even to Ms. Ong and Ms. Unger, who are still processing the fact that they make their living talking about the television, art, fashion and music they love. (Their weekly Substack is called "Culture Porn.")
Ms. Ong grew up in the 1970s in Texas, where she was the only Chinese American in her mostly white elementary school class. Once while playing dodge ball, one of her classmates pointed at her and yelled: "Give the ball to that Mexican girl!" Culture made Ms. Ong feel less lonely. She binge-consumed "Hotel California," "Gilligan's Island," Reader's Digest and "The Brady Bunch."
Ms. Ong moved to New York after college and then bounced around advertising jobs. She helped lead branding for Bravo. She realized she had a talent: telling corporate people what cool people were talking about.
As a longtime marketer, Ms. Ong loves metaphors. One of her favorites compares Cultique's work to testing the atmosphere in preparation for a rocket launch. Their clients are building the ship, making sure all the parts are working. Doesn't it make sense to ensure the atmosphere is amenable to flight?
American Express Global Business Travel hired Cultique in 2021 to study how corporate travel is changing. Cultique's white paper recommended that companies appoint "chief journey officers," making travel a bigger part of company life. Cultique characteristically interspersed corporate phrases with zeitgeisty lingo: wellness, burnout, hybrid work.
Buttoned-up clients (including Amex) like Cultique because even its workplace policies are playful. The company has a four-day workweek. Ms. Ong and Ms. Unger did a boot camp to study their brain waves and determine which parts of the day they'd be most productive.
Both Ms. Ong and Ms. Unger regularly enter what they call the "cone of silence," when they stop communicating with one another and instead rabidly consume culture, which can mean, depending on the day: "Love Is Blind" (Ms. Unger); "The Bear" (Ms. Ong); heavy metal (Ms. Unger); World Wrestling Entertainment (Ms. Unger); going to a wolf sanctuary (Ms. Ong); getting on a motorcycle (Ms. Unger).
They keep group chats with their clients going all day, sending articles, songs, videos or TikToks that relate to the work, which in Cirque's case they call "Cirquecore."
"Has there ever been a CIRQUE Barbie?" read one recent text from Cultique.
"HERMES' new fragrance is 'the sun as perfume,"' read another.
"I also am interested to think of Cirque's performance as religion," Ms. Unger wrote to the group one day. "People are more spiritual than ever, esp. Gen Z."
Magical Mystery Tour
The word nostalgia came up often in conversations about reinventing Cirque. "Nostalgia brands are having a moment," Mr. Menon, a Cultique cultural analyst, declared over Zoom one day. What could be more nostalgic than the circus, with its popcorn and clown noses?
Speaking of nostalgia, sometimes what Cirque seems to be chasing is its history. Before Cirque was a company making close to $ 1 billion per year -- which it is doing again today, after bouncing back from its pandemic slump -- it was a scrappy group of acrobats and stilt walkers putting on a show for residents at a youth hostel in Quebec City. Cirque's founder, Guy Laliberté, who stepped down as chief executive in 2004, came up as a fire-breathing performer on the streets of Montreal. He cobbled together his artist friends to create a festival.
Mr. Laliberté has attributed part of the show's success, over the years, to parties he threw at his lakefront mansion: Women sang opera on gondolas, a 19-piece orchestra serenaded the crowds, the host himself breathed fire. These raucous gatherings have attracted celebrities to Cirque's mission, including George Harrison, who once attended randomly while in town to watch Formula 1 and was so impressed that he asked Mr. Laliberté to make a Beatles-themed show. (The first business meeting between Cirque and the band ended as Paul McCartney drew a picture of Nowhere Man, handed the paper over and told the Cirque team to "figure out what this means.")
If the Beatles loved Cirque's brand, why not Gen Z?
Sitting through a Cirque performance is also a reminder of the features that to some audiences could seem out of step with the times.
At the show I attended, one of the longest sequences focused on a little person named Valentyna Pahlevanyan, who attached herself to balloons and floated over the sprawling arena as audience members pushed on her feet to send her upward. The room rang out with cries of "I want to touch her!" Then she and her husband, Grigor, also a little person, performed a humorous version of "Romeo and Juliet" with interruptions from clowns. There were also jokes about a large man jumping on one end of a seesaw with a smaller man at the other end.
To Cirque, this is a testament to the show's inclusivity. Michel Laprise, who has directed three of Cirque's shows, said the performers help shape their own roles. Choking up, he likened the performers' relationship with the show to a marriage.
"I want them to be loved by the audience," he said. "It's important that we have little people in our shows. It's a way to say they exist. They're not victims."
"The show tells you that no matter how tall you are, how big you are, whatever your background is or what you look like, you can still work here and do the job that you're meant to do," said Ms. Pahlevanyan, 60, adding that she and her husband helped create their "Romeo and Juliet" sequence to capture the comedy and chaos characteristic of Cirque.
Still, part of what Cirque is looking for is a version of its brand that doesn't need the show for relevance (or for all its revenue).
That ambition is distilled, partly, on the company's social media. On Cirque's TikTok there are prank ideas, fitness tips, Halloween costume inspiration, wedding proposals and Black History Month reflections. In one video, Cirque dancers do ballet to the saccharine strains of Michael Bublé. In another, they compete in a push-up competition.
Since starting its TikTok in 2021 and beginning to emphasize its other social media accounts, the company has accumulated more than eight million followers across platforms. Some of its TikTok videos get three million views, and many of those viewers are far younger than the 42-year-old show attendees.
"Last month the question was raised: How do we get more of our TikTok fans to buy tickets to shows?" Ms. Tara said. "I don't know if that's the point."
Cirque had its strongest financial year in 2022. Sitting at the Ludlow Hotel during a visit to New York this spring, Cirque's executives told their cultural analysts that they'd been creating a video that showed how Cirque's brand could be translated into fashion and home goods.
The video cycled through images of acrobats, trapeze artists and clowns. Then commercial items appeared on the screen -- tote bags, sunglasses, pantsuits, pottery -- along with the text "Prime for retail expansion." It was a vision of what Cirque, divorced from the circus, could be.
"This is what Cirque du Soleil -- and the Soleil -- can look like in a physical object someone would actually go and buy," said Mr. Bower, Cirque's head of branding.
The cultural analysts were dazzled. "We love this relationship," Ms. Ong said. "It's like improv. Y'all take the ball and you're like, 'Great, OK, let's do this!"'
Later that night was Cirque's event with Motorola in Brooklyn. Half-naked acrobats spun through purple, misted air. Eerie percussion music filled the room. Dancers in extraterrestrial-looking leotards leaped across the stage. And as the performers did acrobatic flips, Motorola unveiled its new flip phone, a nostalgic take on the early 2000s accessory.
"OVER THE TOP, OTHERWORLDLY, and AVANT GARDE," Ms. Ong declared over text. "Totally on brand!"
Photograph Above, Linda Ong, left, and Sarah Unger are the founders of Cultique, which they call a "cultural analysts" firm. Cirque du Soleil filed for bankruptcy protection in 2020 and later hired Cultique in the hope of achieving a brand makeover. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE GROSKOPF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA CIRQUE DU SOLEIL) (BU4-BU5) This article appeared in print on page BU4, BU5.

Subject: Young adults; Culture; Generation Z; Circuses; Pandemics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Company / organization: Name: Cirque du Soleil; NAICS: 711190

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/21/business/gen-z-cirque-du-soleil.html

Title: Is Gen Z Down to Clown?:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 23, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840700146

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-gen-z-down-clown/docview/2840700146/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 23, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-23

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Is Gen Z Down to Clown? The Circus Is Counting on It.

Author: Goldberg, Emma

Publication info: Goldberg, Emma. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-gen-z-down-clown-circus-counting-on/docview/2840650340/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
The circus is a thrill, a locus of nostalgia for people who remember summers with family members under colorful tents, a beloved amalgam of the athletic and the absurd, the rare place where jugglers and acrobats and fire breathers can fly free, fodder for countless movies and a Dr. Seuss book — and, not to be a downer, a business.
The circus has to make money to keep its clowns clowning.
Coming out of the pandemic, Cirque du Soleil was in trouble. The company had staked nearly all its revenue in live shows, with their dizzying displays of balletic grace and gravity-defying gymnastics. After filing for bankruptcy protection in 2020, Cirque decided it had to be more than just a circus. It wanted to be a brand, something that could sell perfumes, sunglasses, tote bags and video games. So over the past year the circus brought in consultants, which yielded months of meetings peppered with phrases like these:
“I think there’s a real opportunity to elevate the art of clowning.”
“Don’t focus on the Cirque, focus on the Soleil.”
“We want to think of Soleil as the building blocks of vibe.”
“We’ve thrown a lot at you.”
“Lots of Soleil!”
“So much Soleil.”
Cirque du Soleil hired a “cultural analysts” firm, called Cultique, to answer an age-old question: Is it possible to hack popularity?
Cultique argues that it is. Analysts there are in the business of selling cool. And their work with the circus this year has offered a glimpse into what it takes to change a business’s reputation, to do a brand makeover at a time when social media has made branding both more important than ever and more fraught.
Cirque’s leaders felt confident that their company embodied everything Gen Z loves: campy outfits, kitschy makeup, feats of athletic daring. Sequins, spandex, being extra. Yet few of that generation — people born from 1997 to 2012, who now have $360 billion in consumer power — seemed interested in the circus. Cirque’s more than 40 shows sell 10 million tickets a year around the world, with a focus on its American home in Las Vegas, but mostly to a middle-age (or very young) audience. The average Cirque attendee is 42, according to the company. More than two-thirds have children under 18.
Cirque du Soleil turned to Cultique to become relevant. And Cultique promised, improbably, that even at a moment when culture seems to move at the speed of (sorry) a flying trapeze, it’s possible for a savvy old business to catch up.
“We literally help people get ahead of the curve,” said Linda Ong, Cultique’s co-founder and CEO, later adding, “The secret sauce to our business is we help brands anticipate what’s going to change before it’s widely acknowledged.”
It’s not exactly obvious how to define culture. It’s everything we wear (crochet, sheer); listen to (Dua Lipa, Doja Cat); watch (“Real Housewives,” “Barbie”). Ong uses water-based metaphors to describe it. Culture is a wave. You can ride it or get pulled under.
Seemingly invincible brands have shown what it’s like to feel the culture wave crash. Pepsi ended up pulling a 2017 advertisement that showed Kendall Jenner handing a soda can to a police officer. Bud Light lost its status as America’s top-selling beer after it faced backlash for a video from a transgender influencer promoting the beer this spring. If culture is water, the surface is murky.
Enter Ong and her business partner, Sarah Unger, who promise to help companies devise business strategies, marketing campaigns and products that appeal to cultural sensibilities — before those sensibilities are even fully formed. Cultique doesn’t rely much on data. Ong and Unger believe that once trends show up in surveys, it’s too late. It’s best to identify cultural obsessions before they’re on TikTok, before young people are talking about them, right before anyone recognizes they’re real.
“There are two kinds of people,” Ong, 60, said. “People who get turned on by culture and people who don’t understand it.”
The notion that anyone — let alone a 60-year-old and 37-year-old corporate duo Zooming from Los Angeles — can describe cultural fixations before they manifest sounds dubious. Popular culture, after all, is not all that different from other cultures, like cheese, yogurt or kombucha. It’s alive. It’s organic. It isn’t designed by some all-knowing authority. It just happens.
But Cultique’s founders swear that cultural relevance, like any element of business, can be studied and controlled. Last year, that work brought in $3.8 million in revenue for Cultique, which has just two full-time employees and typically a dozen or so contractors. Skeptical, I decided to follow them as they took on the task of transforming Cirque du Soleil.
‘How Do We Become the Theme at the Met Gala?’
Everyone at Cirque du Soleil was astounded to hear I’d never been to Cirque du Soleil.
“It’s your first Cirque?” said the company’s senior tour director, Michael Veilleux, during intermission at a Cirque show called Corteo (theme: funeral meets carnival) in Newark, New Jersey. “You don’t meet many people who it’s their first Cirque.”
He really doesn’t. That’s partly the problem.
Cirque’s shows, as I witnessed, have pole dancers, upside-down shoes without feet and clowns dressed up like horse butts. They have audiences of parents looking harried and children chucking popcorn on the floor. What they don’t seem to have is an expansive base of young adult fans.
It was COVID that prompted Cirque du Soleil’s existential crisis, and decision to chase a new cultural image. After Cirque’s executives tended to all their immediate March 2020 demands — sending performers home, storing hoops and silks away in warehouses — the Montreal-based company furloughed 95% of its 5,000-person staff. Only roughly 150 remained. After vaccines, as the circus began to rehire those workers, executives swore they’d pandemic-proof their business. Cirque couldn’t be entirely reliant on its performances.
Today, about 80% of its revenue comes from live shows. The company’s chief growth officer, Nickole Tara, can envision a time when performances will account for just 20% of the revenue stream.
Executives at Cirque are experimenting with anything a young person curious about the circus might buy. A video game called Cirque du Soleil Tycoon set for release July 28, with the gaming company Roblox, in which players can build their own circus world. A signature fragrance (for the clown lover in your life) and a line of home goods (think maximalist rugs and psychedelic curtains). Corporate partnerships with companies like Motorola, which introduced its new flip phone in an event in June produced with Cirque.
Cirque is working on a television documentary series, likely to be called “Down to Clown.” It is planning a convention styled after Comic-Con, the fantasy events that draw tens of thousands of people annually, which it hopes to launch this year.
“We are going to try so many new things,” said Tara, 39, who last year left the music festival world for a newly created leadership position at Cirque. “We have to embrace the Cirque of the modern era.”
Some brands ooze the kind of cachet that people want to wear. Supreme sneakers. Kylie cosmetics. Others have to think a little harder about the version of themselves that they could commodify — like how to turn a zany old circus into a brand people consider relevant.
On this question, Cultique has been full of ideas, especially during a meeting in early March, when a handful of Cirque executives joined its cultural analysts to discuss what success would look like for their partnership.
“How do we become the theme at the Met Gala?” Tara mused.
“It’s not a crazy idea,” Ong responded. “How do you make your events the Met Gala equivalent?”
The assembled group — which included Cirque’s head of global branding and social media, Chris Bower, and the Cultique analyst Rajiv Menon — agreed that it wanted Cirque to be ubiquitous. They wanted people to wonder why everywhere they looked there was Cirque du Soleil. Roaming Art Basel. Holding court at New York Fashion Week. Spotted with Jenna Ortega. Partnering with Versace.
“‘Oh, my God, everywhere I turn Cirque is doing cool things with cool people,’” Ong said, imagining the party chatter she wants to generate.
To Ong, this doesn’t seem like an inordinately tall order, because she already sees young people embracing the qualities associated with the circus, especially over-the-top performance. They’re just not making the connection to Cirque’s business. In her mind, Cirque needs to publicly own the themes percolating in culture, what she and Unger refer to as “the Soleil Strategy.”
“It’s like porn,” Ong said. “Everybody knows the Cirque du Soleil vibe when they see it.”
The Zeitgeist Whisperers
You’d be forgiven for thinking “cultural analysis” was required reading for a humanities seminar, or a mashup of modern art and Sigmund Freud. But for Cultique, it’s a business venture, which can feel like a surprise even to Ong and Unger, who are still processing the fact that they make their living talking about the television, art, fashion and music they love. (Their weekly Substack is called “Culture Porn.”)
Ong grew up in the 1970s in Texas, where she was the only Chinese American in her mostly white elementary school class. Once while playing dodge ball, one of her classmates pointed at her and yelled: “Give the ball to that Mexican girl!” Culture made Ong feel less lonely. She binge-consumed “Hotel California,” “Gilligan’s Island,” Reader’s Digest and “The Brady Bunch.”
Ong moved to New York after college and then bounced around advertising jobs. She helped lead branding for Bravo. She realized she had a talent: telling corporate people what cool people were talking about.
As a longtime marketer, Ong loves metaphors. One of her favorites compares Cultique’s work to testing the atmosphere in preparation for a rocket launch. Their clients are building the ship, making sure all the parts are working. Doesn’t it make sense to ensure the atmosphere is amenable to flight?
American Express Global Business Travel hired Cultique in 2021 to study how corporate travel is changing. Cultique’s white paper recommended that companies appoint “chief journey officers,” making travel a bigger part of company life. Cultique characteristically interspersed corporate phrases with zeitgeisty lingo: wellness, burnout, hybrid work.
Buttoned-up clients (including Amex) like Cultique because even its workplace policies are playful. The company has a four-day workweek. Ong and Unger did a boot camp to study their brain waves and determine which parts of the day they’d be most productive.
Both Ong and Unger regularly enter what they call the “cone of silence,” when they stop communicating with one another and instead rabidly consume culture, which can mean, depending on the day: “Love Is Blind” (Unger); “The Bear” (Ong); heavy metal (Unger); World Wrestling Entertainment (Unger); going to a wolf sanctuary (Ong); getting on a motorcycle (Unger).
They keep group chats with their clients going all day, sending articles, songs, videos or TikToks that relate to the work, which in Cirque’s case they call “Cirquecore.”
“Has there ever been a CIRQUE Barbie?” read one recent text from Cultique.
“HERMES’ new fragrance is ‘the sun as perfume,’” read another.
“I also am interested to think of Cirque’s performance as religion,” Unger wrote to the group one day. “People are more spiritual than ever, esp. Gen Z.”
Magical Mystery Tour
The word nostalgia came up often in conversations about reinventing Cirque. “Nostalgia brands are having a moment,” Menon, a Cultique cultural analyst, declared over Zoom one day. What could be more nostalgic than the circus, with its popcorn and clown noses?
Speaking of nostalgia, sometimes what Cirque seems to be chasing is its history. Before Cirque was a company making close to $1 billion per year — which it is doing again today, after bouncing back from its pandemic slump — it was a scrappy group of acrobats and stilt walkers putting on a show for residents at a youth hostel in Quebec City. Cirque’s founder, Guy Laliberté, who stepped down as CEO in 2004, came up as a fire-breathing performer on the streets of Montreal. He cobbled together his artist friends to create a festival.
Laliberté has attributed part of the show’s success, over the years, to parties he threw at his lakefront mansion: Women sang opera on gondolas, a 19-piece orchestra serenaded the crowds, the host himself breathed fire. These raucous gatherings have attracted celebrities to Cirque’s mission, including George Harrison, who once attended randomly while in town to watch Formula One and was so impressed that he asked Laliberté to make a Beatles-themed show. (The first business meeting between Cirque and the band ended as Paul McCartney drew a picture of Nowhere Man, handed the paper over and told the Cirque team to “figure out what this means.”)
If the Beatles loved Cirque’s brand, why not Gen Z?
Sitting through a Cirque performance is also a reminder of the features that to some audiences could seem out of step with the times.
At the show I attended, one of the longest sequences focused on a little person named Valentyna Pahlevanyan, who attached herself to balloons and floated over the sprawling arena as audience members pushed on her feet to send her upward. The room rang out with cries of “I want to touch her!” Then she and her husband, Grigor, also a little person, performed a humorous version of “Romeo and Juliet” with interruptions from clowns. There were also jokes about a large man jumping on one end of a seesaw with a smaller man at the other end.
To Cirque, this is a testament to the show’s inclusivity. Michel Laprise, who has directed three of Cirque’s shows, said the performers help shape their own roles. Choking up, he likened the performers’ relationship with the show to a marriage.
“I want them to be loved by the audience,” he said. “It’s important that we have little people in our shows. It’s a way to say they exist. They’re not victims.”
“The show tells you that no matter how tall you are, how big you are, whatever your background is or what you look like, you can still work here and do the job that you’re meant to do,” said Pahlevanyan, 60, adding that she and her husband helped create their “Romeo and Juliet” sequence to capture the comedy and chaos characteristic of Cirque.
Still, part of what Cirque is looking for is a version of its brand that doesn’t need the show for relevance (or for all its revenue).
That ambition is distilled, partly, on the company’s social media. On Cirque’s TikTok there are prank ideas, fitness tips, Halloween costume inspiration, wedding proposals and Black History Month reflections. In one video, Cirque dancers do ballet to the saccharine strains of Michael Bublé. In another, they compete in a push-up competition.
Since starting its TikTok in 2021 and beginning to emphasize its other social media accounts, the company has accumulated more than 8 million followers across platforms. Some of its TikTok videos get 3 million views, and many of those viewers are far younger than the 42-year-old show attendees.
“Last month the question was raised: How do we get more of our TikTok fans to buy tickets to shows?” Tara said. “I don’t know if that’s the point.”
Cirque had its strongest financial year in 2022. Sitting at the Ludlow Hotel during a visit to New York this spring, Cirque’s executives told their cultural analysts that they’d been creating a video that showed how Cirque’s brand could be translated into fashion and home goods.
The video cycled through images of acrobats, trapeze artists and clowns. Then commercial items appeared on the screen — tote bags, sunglasses, pantsuits, pottery — along with the text “Prime for retail expansion.” It was a vision of what Cirque, divorced from the circus, could be.
“This is what Cirque du Soleil — and the Soleil — can look like in a physical object someone would actually go and buy,” said Bower, Cirque’s head of branding.
The cultural analysts were dazzled. “We love this relationship,” Ong said. “It’s like improv. Y’all take the ball and you’re like, ‘Great, OK, let’s do this!’”
Later that night was Cirque’s event with Motorola in Brooklyn. Half-naked acrobats spun through purple, misted air. Eerie percussion music filled the room. Dancers in extraterrestrial-looking leotards leaped across the stage. And as the performers did acrobatic flips, Motorola unveiled its new flip phone, a nostalgic take on the early 2000s accessory.
“OVER THE TOP, OTHERWORLDLY, and AVANT GARDE,” Ong declared over text. “Totally on brand!”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Young adults; Culture; Generation Z; Circuses; Pandemics; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Cirque du Soleil; NAICS: 711190

Identifier / keyword: California; Shutdowns (Institutional); Ortega, Jenna (2002 ); Appointments And Executive Changes; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Ratings (Audience Measurement); Acrobats And Acrobatics; Movies; Romeo And Juliet (Ballet); Parties (Social); Costumes; Quebec Province (Canada); Geisel, Theodor Seuss; Company Reports; New York Fashion Week; Occult Sciences; Videophones And Videoconferencing; Textiles; Ong, Linda; Youth; Elections; Festivals; Pepsico Inc; Beatles, The; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Halloween; Culture (Arts); Chinese Americans; Dancing; Cultique (Marketing Co); Cosmetics And Toiletries; Hiring And Promotion; Cirque Du Soleil; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Social Media; Love (Emotion); Finances; Roblox Corp; Formula One; Business Travel; Harrison, George; Art; Lipa, Dua; Texas; Snack Foods; Dlamini, Amala Zandile (Doja Cat); Divorce, Separations And Annulments; Music; Montreal (Quebec); Executives And Management (Theory); Los Angeles (Calif); Fashion And Apparel; Advertising And Marketin g; Senses And Sensation; New Jersey; Workplace Environment; Education (K 12); Newark (Nj); Tiktok (Bytedance); The Brady Bunch (Tv Program); Bravo; Anheuser Busch Inbev Nv; Computer And Video Games; Laprise, Michel; Two Thousands (Decade); Generation Z; Versace, Gianni, Spa; Real Estate (Commercial); Mccartney, Paul; Pop And Rock Music; Quebec City (Quebec); Comic Books And Strips; Labor And Jobs; Mexico; Met Gala; Television; Travel And Vacations; Unger, Sarah E; Perfumes And Fragrances; Las Vegas (Nev); Box Office Sales; Loneliness; Circuses; Dwarfism; Street Performers; Jenner, Kendall; Business; Models (Professional); American Express Company; Clowns; Classical Music; Age, Chronological; Comedy And Humor

Title: Is Gen Z Down to Clown? The Circus Is Counting on It.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 22, 2023

Dateline: 2023-07-22T16:24:28Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2840650340

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-gen-z-down-clown-circus-counting-on/docview/2840650340/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Aspartame Is Probably Here to Stay, Despite a Cancer Warning: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Creswell, Julie

Publication info: Creswell, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/aspartame-is-probably-here-stay-despite-cancer/docview/2837236340/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A health agency warned the artificial sweetener may be a carcinogen, but others say that risk is overblown and consumers flock to the taste.
About eight years ago, in response to customer concerns about possible health risks associated with the artificial sweetener aspartame, PepsiCo decided to remove the ingredient from its popular diet soda.
Sales flopped. A year later, aspartame was back in Diet Pepsi.
Today, the top three ingredients listed in the tiny print on the backs of cans and bottles of Diet Pepsi -- and on its competitor Diet Coke -- are water, caramel color and aspartame.
A trip through the grocery store reveals the ingredient on the labels of not only diet sodas but also diet teas, sugar-free gums, sugar-free energy drinks and diet lemonade drink mix. By some estimates, thousands of products contain aspartame.
The use of aspartame, which is often known by the brand name Equal, in food and beverage products has long been scrutinized. The latest iteration came on Thursday, when an agency of the World Health Organization declared that aspartame could possibly cause cancer and encouraged people who consume a significant number of beverages with aspartame to switch to water or other unsweetened drinks.
But even with the emergence of many new artificial sweeteners, as well as those that are plant- and fruit-based, Big Food just can't quit aspartame, and analysts don't expect it to this time. That's because the ingredient is one of the least expensive sugar alternatives to use, it works especially well in beverages and mixes, and people like the way it tastes.
There was also pushback about the urgency of the W.H.O.'s announcement. In a quick rebuke, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said it disagreed with the findings, reiterating its stance that aspartame is safe. And a second W.H.O. committee said a 150-pound person would need to drink more than a dozen cans of Diet Coke a day to exceed the safe threshold for the sweetener.
"The big beverage companies have been doing contingency planning for months, experimenting with different sweeteners, with a goal of having the taste and quality of the diet beverages being as consistent as possible with existing products," said Garrett Nelson, who covers the beverage industry at CFRA Research. But they are not likely to change the recipe unless they see a significant drop in consumer demand based on the W.H.O. report, he said.
"If consumers really stop buying Diet Coke because of this report, if sales start to suffer, it might be time to go to Plan B," Mr. Nelson said.
Coca-Cola referred questions to the American Beverage Association, the lobbying arm for the industry. "Aspartame is safe," Kevin Keane, the interim president of the organization, said in a statement.
PepsiCo did not respond to questions for comment, but in an interview with Bloomberg Markets that aired on Thursday, Hugh F. Johnston, the chief financial officer of PepsiCo, said he did not expect a big consumer reaction.
"I do believe that, in fact, this is not going to be a significant issue with consumers based on just the preponderance of evidence that suggests aspartame is safe," Mr. Johnston said.
The assessment of the W.H.O. agency adds to consumer confusion around aspartame, but it is also the latest in a recent spate of research focusing on the potential risks and questioning the true benefits of artificial sweeteners. Just a few weeks ago, the W.H.O. advised against using artificial sweeteners for weight control, saying a review of studies did not show long-term benefit in reducing body fat in children or adults. The review also suggested that the sweeteners were tied to an increased risk of Type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
This year, researchers at North Carolina State University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill released a study that found a chemical formed after digesting another sweetener, sucralose, breaks up DNA and may contribute to health problems.
For years, food and beverage companies and regulators have typically denounced research that raises questions about artificial sweeteners, broadly arguing that the studies were flawed or inconclusive or that the health risks were minuscule.
"A substantial body of scientific evidence shows that low- and no-calorie sweeteners provide effective and safe options to reduce sugar and calorie consumption," Robert Rankin, president of the Calorie Control Council, the lobbying association for manufacturers and suppliers of nearly two dozen alternative sweeteners, said in an emailed statement on Thursday.
Indeed, most food and beverage companies that use aspartame are reluctant to switch partly because aspartame is less expensive than other alternatives and is 200 times as sweet as sugar, meaning a little goes a very long way.
"One of the benefits of aspartame is that it's been made for so long that manufacturers have really refined the costs and processing of it so well and they get a superior product," said Glenn Roy, an adjunct organic chemistry professor at Vassar College who spent more than three decades working at food companies, including NutraSweet, General Foods and PepsiCo.
On top of that, the F.D.A. approved aspartame in 1974, giving companies decades of data and information on what aspartame can and cannot do in products. For instance, it can enhance and extend certain fruit flavors, like cherry and orange, making it a preferred sweetener for beverages and chewing gum. But when heated, aspartame loses its sweetness, making it less desirable for baked or cooked products.
Food and beverage companies are releasing new no- or low-sugar products in response to consumer demand, but many are being made with newer sweeteners, or a blend of sweeteners. Each new product undergoes a litany of sensory and flavor tests before it is released.
But for products that have been around for decades, like diet sodas, loyal customers are accustomed to a specific taste, and they could be turned off by changes in ingredients, scientists warn.
Photograph Beverages at a store in Seoul. Aspartame, which is often known by the brand name Equal, is found in thousands of products, by some estimates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YONHAP/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Consumers; Beverages; Health risks; Brand names; Artificial sweeteners; Lobbying; Calories; Taste; Soft drinks; Health risk assessment

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Brand names

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/14/business/aspartame-drinks-reaction.html

Title: Aspartame Is Probably Here to Stay, Despite a Cancer Warning:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2837236340

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/aspartame-is-probably-here-stay-despite-cancer/docview/2837236340/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Markets Grind Away, Analysts See Bright Future: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Rennison, Joe; Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Rennison, Joe; Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-markets-grind-away-analysts-see-bright-future/docview/2837236326/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Companies are expected to report a fall in profits, but some analysts see brighter times ahead.
As companies prepare to open their books to investors over the coming weeks, in the quarterly ritual known as earnings season, market watchers are balancing relatively weak estimates for past profits with brighter forecasts for future performance.
Stock prices tend to follow expectations of earnings to come rather than react to details about the past, and markets have risen in step with investors' improved outlook for the economy. The S&P 500 fell slightly on Friday but still posted a gain for the week. The index has gained more than 20 percent since October.
Companies in the index are expected to report a 7 percent slide in earnings for the three months through June, compared with the same period last year, according to FactSet. But much of that decline is concentrated in a few sectors, like energy, that recorded outsize profits last year, making for difficult comparisons to this year. And corporate executives also have a habit of lowering investors' expectations ahead of earnings announcements, so that they can beat projections.
"The bottom for the earnings cycle may already be in," said Binky Chadha, the chief U.S. equity strategist at Deutsche Bank, who correctly predicted, against the consensus, that stocks would rally this year.
Gloomier predictions at the start of the year have not played out. Despite widespread fears of a recession, the economy has remained resilient. The latest report on inflation, released this week, prompted optimism that the Federal Reserve may yet tame soaring prices without dragging the broader economy -- and corporate America -- into a deeper downturn.
Fed officials are almost sure to raise interest rates by a quarter-point at their meeting this month. But there is likely to be debate on whether to raise rates again at the next meeting in September, and even Christopher Waller -- a Fed governor who tends to support higher interest rates -- has suggested that officials could hold off if inflation continues to slow.
If the next two inflation reports "look like the last two, the data would suggest maybe stopping," Mr. Waller said at an event in New York on Thursday.
On Friday, after three of the nation's biggest banks, including Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, reported higher-than-expected quarterly profits, Charles W. Scharf, Wells Fargo's chief executive, said the U.S. economy "continues to perform better than many had expected."
With the strength of consumer spending underpinning economic resilience, focus will be firmly on how households are faring, as savings built up through the pandemic dwindle. Even here though, many large companies have already managed to raise prices significantly, softening the impact of any consumer weakness that may be yet to come.
This year, PepsiCo said that it had already increased its prices enough to mitigate rising costs for the rest of 2023. On Thursday, the company reported that for the three months through June, it raised prices another 15 percent, reflecting consumers' continuing ability to absorb higher prices, and companies' willingness to exploit it.
"It's encouraging that still the consumer seems to be pretty darn resilient," said Bonnie Herzog, an analyst at Goldman Sachs.
Ramon Laguarta, the chief executive of PepsiCo, told analysts Thursday morning that a strong job market in the United States and abroad had helped consumers. Data released by the Labor Department last week showed that even as the economy had cooled, unemployment remained low.
Even some of the hardest hit companies through the pandemic, such as the cruise operators Royal Caribbean and Carnival Cruise Line, have begun to bounce back.
Analysts had predicted Pepsi would post strong financial results, but the company still exceeded expectations, lifting its stock price 2.4 percent on Thursday. Over the past 10 years, more than 70 percent of companies have on average exceeded analysts' forecasts, according to FactSet.
Even if some companies do start to slip, investors have already shrugged off a 2.1 percent drop in earnings for the first quarter, with the fall proving better than the decline of more than 6 percent that was expected.
That rosier outcome has helped propel the S&P 500 higher. The average analyst at the start of the year forecast that the S&P would rise roughly 5 percent over the course of 2023, according to a Bloomberg aggregation of forecasts. It took less than a month to break through that level.
Prognosticators from the likes of Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and BMO have since raised their expectations.
John Flood, head of U.S. equities sales trading at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a note to clients on Wednesday that for the first time this year, he had been fielding questions on whether the S&P 500 could hit a record high in 2023, which remains roughly 5 percent away. "I am going with a yes," he wrote.
Still, only a handful of analysts expect the index to rise further from here, with much of the bullishness over the resumption of earnings growth already baked into the rally.
Some, including analysts at Cantor, Morgan Stanley, BNP Paribas and Barclays, continue to forecast a drop of around 10 percent or more before the end of the year.
The searing rally in the S&P 500 since it plumbed its low last October means companies are broadly already valued at historically high levels. Unemployment remains low, but there are signs of softening in the labor market. Pepsi reported strong earnings and raised prices, but its sales volume took a hit as a result, as some consumers balked at the higher price tags.
Some analysts also pointed to the end of the student loan moratorium, meaning loan repayments will restart in the fall, as another headwind for consumers.
Aside from a group of technology companies that have driven the market higher, partly because of enthusiasm over the profit potential of artificial intelligence, companies could face more resistance to higher prices, while costs -- such as from higher wages -- remain, said Venu Krishna, head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays.
"We still see ongoing earnings pressure," he said.
Even some of the more optimistic strategists acknowledge that although the worst for company earnings may soon be in the rearview mirror, it will be more difficult for stock prices to keep rising because much of the recent optimism is already embedded in the market.
Still, the outlook heading into the latest round of financial results remains far from the dour predictions at the start of the year, with Mr. Chadha expecting stock prices to still "grind higher."
"There are a long list of concerns that investors have, and whether or not we go into a recession is an open question," he said. "But with the potential recession long telegraphed and expected to be mild, we think the market sell-off will be modest and short-lived."
Jeanna Smialek contributed reporting.
Jeanna Smialek contributed reporting.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B2.

Subject: Prices; Consumers; Inflation; Investments; Interest rates; Cost control; Corporate profits; Pandemics; Recessions

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Inflation Interest rates Cost control Corporate profits Recessions

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Wells Fargo & Co; NAICS: 522110, 551111; Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111; Name: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; NAICS: 523150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/14/business/investors-markets-earnings-season.html

Title: As Markets Grind Away, Analysts See Bright Future:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2837236326

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-markets-grind-away-analysts-see-bright-future/docview/2837236326/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Price Increases by Pepsico Lead to a Big Jump in Profits: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Moreno, J Edward

Publication info: Moreno, J Edward. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/price-increases-pepsico-lead-big-jump-profits/docview/2836693760/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The maker of Gatorade and Lay's, which nearly doubled its profit in its latest quarter, has been raising prices by double-digit percentages for more than a year.
PepsiCo reported a big jump in quarterly profit on Thursday, despite signs that customers are buying fewer cans of soda and bags of chips as the company continues to raise prices aggressively.
Pepsi, which makes Gatorade, Lay's and Quaker Oats, also raised its forecast for earnings in the rest of the year, pushing its stock higher.
The company reported 10 percent growth in revenue, to $ 22.3 billion, and nearly doubled its profit since the same time last year, to $ 2.7 billion, in its second quarter, which ended June 17. PepsiCo said it expected revenue to grow 10 percent for the full year, up from its previous forecast of 8 percent.
The quarterly results exceeded analysts' already optimistic expectations, as consumers wrestle with higher prices while policymakers weigh their next move in their efforts to tame inflation.
Though Pepsi earned more last quarter, the amount of products it sold went down. The prices of its products have risen by double-digit percentages for the past six quarters, and the company has reported dipping sales volumes for the past three quarters.
Pepsi's prices overall were 15 percent higher in the second quarter than they were a year earlier. The increase was particularly pronounced in Pepsi's European division, up 20 percent. Rising food prices in Europe have attracted particular scrutiny from economists and policymakers, who have said corporate profits were contributing to stubbornly high inflation there.
"We've been able to raise prices and consumers stay within our brands," Ramon Laguarta, chief executive of Pepsi, said on a call with analysts Thursday morning.
Mr. Laguarta attributed low unemployment in the United States and across the world as a reason consumers have continued to buy Pepsi products. Data released last week showed the U.S. labor market cooling but still strong.
Inflation data released Wednesday showed that consumer prices in the United States, including food, have gone up at a slower rate, though are still a ways away from the Federal Reserve's goal. Overall, food prices rose 5.7 percent over the year through June.
PepsiCo's shares rose about 2.4 percent Thursday. The food and beverage giant is one of the first companies to report earnings each quarter, serving as a bellwether for how other companies may perform. Companies in the S&P 500 are expected to report a 7 percent decline in profit in the second quarter, according to estimates compiled by FactSet.
Coca-Cola and Nestlé will report earnings later this month. Several major banks will report their results on Friday.
Photograph PepsiCo has raised prices for more than a year but has reported dipping sales volumes for the past three quarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Prices; Consumers; Inflation; Corporate profits; Food prices; Earnings

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Inflation Corporate profits Food prices Earnings

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/13/business/pepsico-earnings-2q-2023.html

Title: Price Increases by Pepsico Lead to a Big Jump in Profits:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 14, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2836693760

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/price-increases-pepsico-lead-big-jump-profits/docview/2836693760/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Prime, a Drink Fueled by YouTube Influencers And a Load of Caffeine, Is Drawing a Backlash: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Chang, Che

Publication info: Chang, Che. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prime-drink-fueled-youtube-influencers-load/docview/2836148621/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Senator Chuck Schumer, the majority leader, has asked the F.D.A. to investigate a popular beverage created by the YouTube influencers Logan Paul and KSI over its high caffeine content.
The release of Prime, a drink brand founded by the YouTube personality and boxer Logan Paul, had British teenagers lining up for hours outside grocery stores on its release date in December. Some supermarkets were even forced to limit purchases to one bottle per customer.
Now, Prime is facing a backlash from physicians and lawmakers who say that the high levels of caffeine in one of its drinks can be harmful to children. At a news conference in New York on Sunday, Senator Chuck Schumer, the majority leader, called for the Food and Drug Administration to investigate the ultra-caffeinated variety of Prime, which he pointed out has caffeine levels equivalent to about six 12-ounce cans of Coca-Cola.
Prime offers two kinds of beverages: Prime Hydration, a sports drink that does not contain caffeine, and Prime Energy, a highly caffeinated drink. A 12-ounce Prime Energy contains 200 milligrams of caffeine, compared with the 114 milligrams of caffeine in a 12-ounce can of Red Bull or the 100 milligrams found in a cup of coffee. Pediatricians recommend that children under the age of 12 avoid caffeine entirely, and those from 12 to 18 should consume no more than 100 milligrams per day.
Senator Schumer said Prime Energy had "so much caffeine in it that it puts Red Bull to shame." He added that Prime differed from other highly caffeinated energy drinks in that its advertising campaign appeared to target those under 18.
Mr. Paul, a high-profile provocateur known for his controversial videos, has long faced questions over the example he sets for young people. He has won two Teen Choice awards, decided mainly by voters ages 13 to 19, and when he is pursued by his loyal fans, known as the Logang, they often skew young. He launched Prime in 2022 with Olajide Olayinka Williams Olatunji, a 30-year-old rapper and another prominent YouTube personality known by his online alias, KSI.
In a letter to Dr. Robert Califf, head of the F.D.A., on Monday, Senator Schumer urged the agency to investigate the beverage company.
"Many physicians have serious concern for Prime, and I write to specifically urge your agency to investigate Prime for its claims, marketing and caffeine content," Senator Schumer wrote.
Prime said in a statement to The New York Times that each can of its energy drink "states clearly" that it was not made for anyone under the age of 18. The company added that the beverage had caffeine levels comparable to other top-selling energy drinks and that Prime was compliant with F.D.A. guidelines.
The official backlash comes as America's major beverage companies vie for a piece of the rapidly growing market for energy drinks. Over the past five years, sales in the energy drink industry have surged from $ 12 billion to $ 19 billion, according to Circana, a market research firm. Recently, companies like Pepsi and Gatorade have both invested in new caffeine-addled beverage lines, and shares of Monster Energy, another caffeinated beverage, surged 30 percent in the past year. Experts say the excitement has been fueled in part by a decades-long pivot away from sugary sodas.
Senator Schumer said at the Sunday news conference that parents had brought Prime to his attention. But the energy drink is part of a growing field of high-caffeine drinks popular among young people on TikTok. These drinks include the brand Alani Nu, supported by the social media influencer Addison Rae, and Celsius, which is backed by Pepsi.
Dr. Edith Bracho-Sanchez, a pediatrician at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital who joined Senator Schumer at the news conference on Sunday, wrote in an email to The Times that regularly consuming as much caffeine as is found in Prime Energy can disrupt the sleep cycle, which is essential to a child's developing brain.
High caffeine consumption can also give consumers the jitters and cause digestive issues, headaches, heart palpitations and even abnormal heart rhythms, she added.
Mr. Paul rose to fame as a popular YouTube personality and has since ventured into other avenues such as acting and boxing.
Representatives for Mr. Paul did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
A Prime representative said in a statement that it was "very important" to distinguish between the two drinks on the market, one of which -- Prime Hydration -- was also immensely popular among young consumers and did not contain any caffeine.
"We welcome discussions with the F.D.A." on industry changes necessary to protect consumers, a Prime representative added.
But Dr. Bracho-Sanchez said the manner in which the companies were marketing the two beverages -- with flashy packaging and a social media blitz pushed to younger consumers -- made it difficult to tell them apart. The "energy" branding was also misleading, she added.
"This is not true energy. This isn't a good night's sleep followed by a nutritious meal, this is a caffeine rush followed by a crash."
Photograph Critics say Prime Energy appears to be marketed to consumers under 18. The beverage's maker says the label states clearly it is not made for them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Press conferences; Energy drinks; Beverages; Caffeine; Hydration; Personality; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Schumer, Charles E; Paul, Logan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/12/business/prime-drink-fda-caffeine.html

Title: Prime, a Drink Fueled by YouTube Influencers And a Load of Caffeine, Is Drawing a Backlash:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 13, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2836148621

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prime-drink-fueled-youtube-influencers-load/docview/2836148621/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Another Businessman Wants to Run America: [Op-Ed]

Author: Miller, Katherine

Publication info: Miller, Katherine. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/another-businessman-wants-run-america/docview/2817899905/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: GOOSE LAKE, Iowa -- "We're like a bunch of blind bats. We human beings are, we millennials are, we Americans are," Vivek Ramaswamy riffed. "We can't see where we are."
Bats send sonar signals, which bounce off objects and allow the mammals to navigate. "So we do that, we send out our signals, and it bounces off something that is true, something that is real, like family. The two parents who brought me into this world, my mother and father. The two children who I brought into this world," he went on. "That is real. That is true. That means something to me."
In person, his presentation is a lot more intense; it is also about a bleaker landscape of American life than the bright version of Trumpism he's trying to project.
"We're hungry for a cause," Mr. Ramaswamy, who is 37, said of millennials when he spoke on a recent Friday night in Iowa, in a navy suit and white dress shirt, walking the stage and not pausing too often for applause. "We're hungry for purpose and meaning. And identity. At a point in our national history when the things that used to fill that void -- things like faith, patriotism, hard work, family -- these things have disappeared." Instead, he said, "poison" and "secular cults" had taken their place.
All of this -- the bats and the void and the disappearance of our families from the collective American identity -- was delivered to a county committee dinner in a friendly ballroom with an open bar, a buffet, patriotic decorations and a fun local musician playing country hits from the past.
This is what a pro-capitalism candidate looks like in post-Trump Republican politics, in which the emphasis is on the creation of a national identity in the face of spiritual emptiness and the idea that big business and the customer aren't always right.
The next morning, at campaign events held at one of those cool digital driving ranges and at a pizza place with a beautiful old tin ceiling, the American identity crisis talk continued. "There's more to life than just the aimless passage of time, going through the motions," he said standing in front of what looked like a floor-to-ceiling image of a Pebble Beach fairway. "You're more than the genetic attributes you inherited on the day you were born," he went on to say. "You are you."
He is technically the business candidate, but not really. This is the elite corporate executive as culture warrior. Mr. Ramaswamy's pitch in Iowa was not about the application of free-market principles to the federal government, at least not in the way you might expect from a pre-Trump Republican business candidate. Nor was it economic populism, either, not really, because his idea isn't so much that corporations are ripping you off; it's that they're in bad-faith league with one another to advance liberal pieties.
Theoretically, he could be doing a business pitch. Mr. Ramaswamy started a pharmaceutical investment and drug development company that picked up pharmaceutical projects abandoned by other companies and aimed to bring the drugs to market. In 2020, as chief executive, he refused to support Black Lives Matter and in 2021 was an author of a Wall Street Journal opinion essay arguing that online platforms were censoring people when they blocked accounts in the chaotic aftermath of Jan. 6, 2021. He has published three books critiquing the environmental, social and governance practices of BlackRock and other fund managers and started an anti-E.S.G. asset management firm.
As Charles C.W. Cooke of National Review pointed out, Mr. Ramaswamy has chosen to "download and internalize" MAGA moods -- shutting down the F.B.I., replacing the A.T.F., raising the voting age to 25 unless you pass a civics test or serve in the military or as an emergency worker. These are the kinds of proposals that are drafted to please and anger the right people and never happen. He's given $ 10,000 to the defense fund of Daniel Penny, the man accused of second-degree manslaughter in the subway chokehold death of Jordan Neely, and his campaign is selling a coffee mug that reads "truth," with the words "wokeism," "climatism" and "transgenderism" crossed out above. He has repeatedly portrayed trans people as mentally ill.
As a Ramaswamy campaign memo recently said, "The mistake every other campaign is making is that they see their path to the nomination through Trump, when our path is alongside Trump." In reality, many Republican politicians have seen their path alongside Donald Trump as they wait for someone else to break him like a big piñata.
Mr. Ramaswamy wants to restore an American identity that, in speeches, involves a lot of concepts but rarely anecdotes. That identity would involve the pursuit of excellence, which he described in an interview along vague, traditional lines -- people achieving their maximal potential, free of societal hindrance. He contended this ethic is absent from corporate life. "I think that part of this is psychological, that in the moment people feel compelled to apologize for excellence," he told me. To "be accepted as cool," the most successful "have to apologize for the system that got them there by sticking the word 'stakeholder' in front of it," he said and called "the racial equity agenda" an "example of prioritizing a different value."
Mr. Ramaswamy came up in an elite world where some people employ the idea of charity or progressive impulses to get ahead, first in admissions, then in business, and they sometimes become deluded or self-interested ethical consumers. "Whatever justice is, surely it can't be attained so incidentally, by just picking the right shirts, the right burgers and the right bankers," he writes in the book "Woke, Inc." He's bothered by that thing many also dislike, which is a hedge fund putting in place a superficial diversity effort intended to disrupt as little as possible to prevent a lawsuit or make money, or a corporation with an aspirational brand made of cotton produced in the Xinjiang region of China.
This is the world summarized by Sam Bankman-Fried last year in a D.M. he later claimed he thought was off the record: "this dumb game we woke westerners play where we say all the right shibboleths and so everyone likes us."
In "Woke, Inc.," Mr. Ramaswamy's solution is to separate politics and business. He argues that both stakeholder capitalists and Milton Friedman devotees miss something in the corporate system we have: A sole focus on fiduciary duty and profit maximization keeps corporations from becoming extragovernmental bodies like Dutch colonial trading companies.
But it's also not as if the only time anyone cares about racism in America is to sell Pepsi or to get into Columbia. The practical implications of keeping business and politics separate become complicated quickly for this reason; the economy is made up of millions of individuals who live in the larger world. "This is a business," as Dolly Parton said of her decision to remove "Dixie," the nickname for the South often associated with the Confederacy, from the Stampede, two dinner show attractions she owns. She didn't want to offend prospective customers. What if Chick-fil-A wants to stay closed on Sundays? What if a company wants to market fratty beer to trans people and supporters as customers in and of themselves? What counts as maximizing profit or respecting the employees, and what counts as politics? What is politics?
Over the past decade, many presidential candidates -- especially the long-shot, unconventional kinds in both parties -- have talked in secular-spiritual ways about voids in American life and the corruption among elites. There are different theories of the case (technological change, inequality, institutional decline, loneliness), including the omnipresence of corporations and the emptiness of material goods for justice. The vision that markets and capitalism would liberalize the world and accelerate the realization of a pluralistic America, full of choice and privacy and respect, has begun to dim.
Mr. Ramaswamy has isolated a problem in that vision (the hollowness of so much of corporate social policy). His national-identity-based explanation for the void is winning with some post-Trump conservative politicians who see the "power, dominion, control and punishment" that Mr. Ramaswamy said he believes are behind climate activism in much of American elite life. It's a lean time for the sunnier version of a capitalist pitch -- in which climate change is a problem but also a business opportunity, just like the valued employees and customers in a pluralistic, ever-changing American society.
Katherine Miller is a staff writer and editor in Opinion.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
This article appeared in print on page A22.

Subject: Political campaigns; Millennials; Capitalism; Politics; Spirituality

Business indexing term: Subject: Capitalism

Location: United States--US; Iowa

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/23/opinion/vivek-ramaswamy-election-2024-republican-nomination.html

Title: Another Businessman Wants to Run America:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 24, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2817899905

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/another-businessman-wants-run-america/docview/2817899905/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Selling Treasures Of a Disco Queen: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Jacobs, Julia

Publication info: Jacobs, Julia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/selling-treasures-disco-queen/docview/2816695805/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Eleven years after her death, the disco legend's family has combed through her possessions, deciding to sell many of her glittering dresses, manuscripts and paintings.
For nearly a decade after Donna Summer's death in 2012, her home in Nashville remained like a shrine to the Queen of Disco's decades-long music career.
Beaded gowns that she had worn onstage remained tucked away along with designer pumps in the upstairs closet; ephemera such as an annotated album cover design for "She Works Hard for the Money" were stored downstairs; and in the basement, there was an accumulation of brightly colored paintings, awards and gold records.
Never eager to talk about death, Summer -- who died of lung cancer at 63 -- had not given directions for what should be done with her possessions, her husband, Bruce Sudano, said recently. It was only in the past few years that Summer's family was ready to fully comb through her belongings at the Nashville home, many of which will go up for sale at Christie's next month, the auction house announced Friday.
"You'd go into these spaces and it would be almost a time capsule of your life," said Brooklyn Sudano, one of Summer's three daughters.
One of the items up for sale is a silver goblet that Summer often had onstage with her, filled with caffeine-free Pepsi. Brooklyn Sudano remembered that when she and one of her sisters were on tour with their mother in the 1990s, one of their jobs would be to stir the soda inside the goblet to get rid of any bubbles. ("While she's singing she can't be burping," she explained.)
A versatile singer-songwriter whose music spanned funk, dance, rock and gospel, Summer shot to fame in 1975 with the erotic extended cut of "Love to Love You Baby," followed by the pioneering electronic song "I Feel Love," whose pulsating club beat can be heard in Beyoncé's "Summer Renaissance."
The announcement by Christie's comes shortly before HBO's release on Saturday of a new family-backed biographical documentary, directed by Roger Ross Williams and Brooklyn Sudano. Chronicling Summer's rise from a cast member in a German production of "Hair" to an international superstar, the film, called "Love to Love You, Donna Summer," is as much about her personal life as her career, discussing her struggles with depression, physical abuse by a boyfriend, and her chapter as a born-again Christian.
The auction includes glamorous possessions and others that are more mundane. On the glamorous end: a glittering blue and green dress Summer wore in the music video for her 1983 song "Unconditional Love," a rhinestone-studded dress and bolero jacket that she wore at a concert in 1995, and a collection of the diva's sunglasses.
As for the mundane -- but perhaps intriguing to the most devoted of fans -- the sale includes unworn shoes and a dozen unused Louis Vuitton towels.
"There are people in the world who love her," said Bruce Sudano, who is in charge of caring for her estate. "It felt like we can't just hoard all of this stuff for ourselves."
The online sale, which Christie's expects to garner about $ 200,000 to $ 300,000, begins on June 15. A portion of the proceeds from the sale will go to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Save the Music Foundation and the Elton John AIDS Foundation, the auction house said.
One item, a poster for a 1998 concert supporting the nonprofit Gay Men's Health Crisis, gestures to the history of Summer's at times strained relationship with L.G.B.T.Q. fans, many of whom boycotted her music in the '80s after they had helped to fuel its rise.
The documentary briefly addresses that history, with Summer's husband recounting how an off-the-cuff comment onstage -- "God didn't make Adam and Steve, he made Adam and Eve," he recalled her saying -- deeply hurt many gay fans. Summer worked to repair her relationship with the fan base, especially after New York magazine wrote that she had described the AIDS crisis as a "divine ruling" on gay people, a report she fiercely denied and ultimately sued over.
The sale also includes about 15 paintings and manuscripts with scrawled lyrics, including for the 1977 song "Now I Need You," written on stationery from a hotel in Munich, as well as edits in pencil to the lyrics for the hit "On the Radio."
Brooklyn Sudano scrutinized documents like those while piecing together the HBO film, which she said bolstered her belief that her mother was not a pop star engineered by outside forces, but rather an artist who was deeply involved in creating the hits that made her famous.
"People just saw her as this persona," she said. "I don't think that they truly understood that she was an artist and had an active role in creating the Donna Summer that people knew."
Photograph A silver goblet Donna Summer, right, drank from is expected to sell for $ 400 to $ 600. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM STEINFELDT/MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page C6.

Subject: Decades; Musical performances; Painting

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

People: Summer, Donna

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/19/arts/music/donna-summer-auction.html

Title: Selling Treasures Of a Disco Queen:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 22, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2816695805

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/selling-treasures-disco-queen/docview/2816695805/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Amy Schumer's Riverview Penthouse Wrapped by Terraces Sells for $13 Million: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Marino, Vivian

Publication info: Marino, Vivian. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/amy-schumers-riverview-penthouse-wrapped-terraces/docview/2810282490/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The $ 13 million sale on Riverside Drive was one of New York City's largest closings in April. The priciest was a full-floor apartment at Central Park Tower.
The comedian Amy Schumer has finally closed on the sale of her Upper West Side apartment, a sprawling, glass-enclosed penthouse with wraparound terraces and an expansive rooftop deck overlooking the Hudson River.
The buyer of the unit, perched atop 190 Riverside Drive, at West 91st Street, is the award-winning composer and lyricist Benj Pasek. He paid $ 13 million, according to property records, giving Ms. Schumer, who moved to Brooklyn Heights with her family last year, a tidy profit. She bought the apartment through a trust in 2016 for $ 12.1 million and initially re-listed it in May 2022 for $ 15 million.
The penthouse sale was among the largest closings in New York City during the month of April. The priciest took place (not surprisingly) on Billionaires' Row in Midtown, where a full-floor apartment at the supertall 217 West 57th Street, also known as the Central Park Tower, sold for nearly $ 44.9 million. This was a precipitous drop, though, from the original $ 63.5 million asking price.
A smaller unit in the tower sold for $ 15 million, also at a discount.
On the Upper East Side, Sam Ghusson, a founder of Batallure Beauty, which creates beauty products for various brands and celebrities, and his wife, Suzanne Ghusson, sold their Park Avenue condominium. And the estate of Donald Jonas, an avid art collector and philanthropist who co-founded the Lechters Housewares chain, sold his Fifth Avenue co-op for well above the asking price.
Downtown, the photographer Alexi Lubomirski, who took Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's official wedding and engagement pictures, and his wife, Giada Lubomirski, who runs the environmental social media platform Ecoshaker, sold their East Village townhouse.
Ms. Schumer's former penthouse, which sold for $ 13 million, has 4,500 square feet of interior space encompassing a full floor of 190 Riverside Drive. It includes five bedrooms, five and a half bathrooms, a laundry room, and a spacious great room with a custom gas fireplace made of anthracite and glass. There is also tons of outdoor space -- 3,000 square feet in total, over two levels.
The apartment's main living area has the look and feel of a solarium, with angled skylights and bi-fold glass doors that open onto rambling wraparound terraces. The open kitchen, just off the formal dining space, is equipped with a marble center island, breakfast bar and high-end appliances.
At the opposite end of the apartment are the bedrooms. The primary suite has a private terrace and a lot of closet space, along with a marble bathroom with a separate soaking tub and radiant heat floors.
Stairs in the entry gallery lead up to possibly the best amenity in the home: the landscaped rooftop terrace, a 730-square-foot oasis that provides panoramic views of the Hudson River, George Washington Bridge and city skyline. And there's one more perk some New Yorkers would covet: a parking space.
The new owner, Mr. Pasek, will have more than enough room to entertain his showbiz and theater pals. He and his collaborator, Justin Paul, wrote the music for hit shows and movies like "Dear Evan Hansen" and "La La Land," receiving several awards along the way, including an Oscar, Grammy and Tony.
Ms. Schumer listed the home as she and her husband, the chef Chris Fischer, were relocating to Brooklyn Heights. They bought a grand brownstone on Cranberry Street that was featured in the 1987 film "Moonstruck," paying nearly $ 12.3 million, which was over the asking price.
Ms. Schumer, who has appeared in numerous TV shows and films, including "Trainwreck" and "The Humans," is currently starring in the Hulu drama series "Life & Beth."
The month's top sale, which closed at just under $ 45 million, encompasses the 114th floor of the 131-floor Central Park Tower, at 217 West 57th Street, between Broadway and Seventh Avenue. Rising 1,550 feet high, the luxury condo has been billed (at least for now) as the world's tallest residential building.
For the new owner of the sponsor apartment -- identified only as NGM Bridge L.L.C. -- this means nosebleed vistas from the many floor-to-ceiling windows of everything from Central Park to the Hudson and East Rivers to the city skyline. No need for any artwork here.
The 7,000-square-foot unit has a formal reception gallery, a huge great room and an extra-large eat-in kitchen with custom Smallbone of Devizes cabinetry and Miele appliances. There are also five bedrooms, five full bathrooms and a powder room. The primary suite takes up the entire western wing and features a formal sitting room and spalike bathroom with dual features.
The building's other big closing last month, at $ 15 million, was a 3,000-square-foot apartment on the 92nd floor, with three bedrooms, three and a half bathrooms and some pretty amazing views, too. It had been listed for $ 19 million. The buyer used the limited liability company Anirf.
The Ghussons got $ 13.5 million for their apartment at 823 Park Avenue, between East 75th and 76th Streets in the Lenox Hill neighborhood, which was a bit more than the $ 13 million they had paid for it in 2012. The home had been on and off the market since the spring of 2021 when it was first listed for $ 15 million.
The buyer used the limited liability company Tearmann II.
The fully renovated prewar condo takes up the 10th floor, extending almost 4,200 square feet, with five bedrooms and four and a half bathrooms. It also features a 32-foot-long, double-wide living room and library with a gas fireplace, an oversize formal dining room, and a kitchen with marble countertops and breakfast area, and of course, high-end appliances.
Mr. Ghusson is the co-founder of Batallure Beauty, which has partnered with celebrities in creating beauty products like fragrances, cosmetics, hair and skin care and men's grooming. Clients have included the actress Michelle Pfeiffer and the model Iman.
The home of Mr. Jonas, the retail magnate and philanthropist who died last summer, was sold by his estate for $ 10 million, above the $ 8.5 million price tag. The co-op apartment is at the limestone-clad 820 Fifth Avenue, at East 63rd Street, facing Central Park.
The buyers were the Mexican businessman Juan Gallardo Thurlow and his wife Gela Lorena Larrea del Gallardo. Mr. Gallardo Thurlow runs Organización Cultiba, a holding company whose subsidiaries distribute soft drinks, including bottled water and Pepsi-brand drinks, in Mexico. His wife is on the board of the company.
The apartment has three bedrooms and four full bathrooms, plus a paneled library and a grand formal dining room and living room, each of them with a wood-burning fireplace. Although the unit has many modern updates, much of its original prewar architecture remains, including the high ceilings, herringbone hardwood floors, wood moldings and numerous built-ins.
Mr. Jonas ran the Barbara Lynn Stores (named for his wife, Barbara Jonas), a purveyor of women's discount clothing, before cofounding the Lechters Housewares chain in the mid-1970s; it went out of business in 2001.
He and his wife, who died in 2018, were major collectors of Abstract Expressionist art, which they eventually sold to finance their philanthropic interests, much of it centered on the nursing profession and veterans.
In the East Village, at 122 East 10th Street, the townhouse owned by Mr. Lubomirski, the photographer, and Ms. Lubomirski, the environmentalist, sold for $ 7.9 million, below last year's initial $ 9.2 million asking price.
The buyers were Leslie Parent and Kenneth Parent, a strategic adviser and former president of the Pilot Company in Knoxville, Tenn., a Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary that operates truck stops, among other things.
The Anglo-Italianate building, with a classic front stoop, is between Second and Third Avenues in an area known as Renwick Triangle, in the St. Mark's Historic District. It was designed by the noted architect James Renwick Jr., best known for creating St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York and the Smithsonian Institution Building in Washington.
The fully renovated, eco-friendly brick house is six stories high and 18 feet wide and is currently configured with two units, according to StreetEasy. There are a total of eight bedrooms and four and a half bathrooms, plus a rear garden and a small front yard. Amy Schumer and her husband, Chris Fischer, sold their sprawling penthouse at 190 Riverside Drive, top, which has the look and feel of a solarium. Full-floor apartments at the Central Park Tower, above, and at Park Avenue and 75th Street, above right, also changed hands during April. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HUNTER ABRAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; STEVEN FREEMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; EDWARD MENASHY/EVAN JOSEPH STUDIOS; KATHERINE MARKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE4.

Subject: Flooring; Dining rooms; Limited liability companies; Celebrities; Marble; Housewares; Architecture; Parks & recreation areas; Bathrooms; Fireplaces

Business indexing term: Subject: Limited liability companies Architecture

Location: United States--US; Hudson River; New York City New York

People: Schumer, Amy

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/05/realestate/amy-schumer-nyc-penthouse-sale.html

Title: Amy Schumer's Riverview Penthouse Wrapped by Terraces Sells for $13 Million:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

column: Big Ticket

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810282490

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/amy-schumers-riverview-penthouse-wrapped-terraces/docview/2810282490/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

2 States Weigh Bans on Common Food Additives: [Science Desk]

Author: Smith, Dana G

Publication info: Smith, Dana G. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-states-weigh-bans-on-common-food-additives/docview/2805338986/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Here's what to know about the five chemicals, which most often show up in baked goods, candy and soda.
Newly proposed bills in California and New York are putting food additives -- the chemicals manufacturers add to food to act as preservatives or to enhance color, texture or taste -- under the microscope.
The state legislators are seeking to prohibit the manufacturing and sale of products containing additives that have been linked to cancer, neurodevelopmental issues and hormone dysfunction. The five additives named in the bills are most commonly found in baked goods, candy and soda and are almost totally banned in food products in Europe. Several health associations, including the Endocrine Society and the American Academy of Pediatrics, have raised concerns about the potential health harms of food additives as a whole.
The bills, if approved, would both go into effect in 2025. The sponsors of the California bill, Assemblyman Jesse Gabriel and Assemblywoman Buffy Wicks, said the restrictions would especially protect children, who are more susceptible than adults to the potential risks.
"Kids eat more, pound for pound," said Dr. Leonardo Trasande, a professor of pediatrics at NYU Langone Health who specializes in environmental health. "Their developing organs are especially vulnerable."
The New York Times asked experts about these five additives and how to avoid or limit exposure if you are concerned.
What are the five additives in the bills?
When deciding which to include, the state legislators, collaborating with the nonprofits Consumer Reports and the Environmental Working Group, looked for additives that were prohibited in Europe and still widely used in the U.S., and where research showed strong evidence of health risks.
"These five were truly the worst of the worst," said Scott Faber, senior vice president of government affairs at the Environmental Working Group.
Red dye No. 3 is used in nearly 3,000 food products, including icings, nutritional shakes, maraschino cherries and peppermint-, berry- and cherry-flavored candies. It has been shown to cause cancer in animals, which prompted the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to ban its use in cosmetics in 1990. At the time, the agency said it would work to extend the ban to food, but the chemical remains in use today. There are also concerns that it and other synthetic food dyes may contribute to behavioral problems, such as hyperactivity, in children.
Titanium dioxide acts as a whitener, color enhancer and anti-caking agent in thousands of food items. It's present in many candies, as well as baked goods, creamy salad dressings and frozen dairy products, like cheese pizza and ice cream. A safety assessment conducted by the European Food Safety Authority in 2021 concluded that titanium dioxide damages DNA and can harm the immune system, resulting in its ban in the E.U. in 2022.
Brominated vegetable oil serves as an emulsifier in fruit drinks and sodas. Research in rats -- including a study published by the F.D.A. in 2022 -- suggests that brominated vegetable oil acts as an endocrine disrupter, especially affecting the thyroid hormone. An earlier study found that it can also harm the reproductive system. Because of its potential risks, many large brands, including Coca-Cola and Pepsi, recently stopped using the chemical, but it's still in some smaller and grocery store beverage brands.
Potassium bromate is primarily found in baked goods, including breads, cookies and tortillas, where it acts as a leavening agent and improves texture. The additive is classified as being "possibly carcinogenic to humans" by the International Agency for Research on Cancer, based on studies conducted in animals.
Propylparaben is a preservative used in packaged baked goods, particularly pastries and tortillas. It's also present in many cosmetics and personal care products. Numerous studies, in humans and animals, indicate that propylparaben acts as an endocrine disrupter and affects male and female reproductive health.
"If you need to start somewhere, these five are great," said Dr. Sheela Sathyanarayana, a professor of pediatrics at the University of Washington who researches endocrine disrupters. "They have strong health data, they are widely used in many products, so likely there's very large-scale exposure."
How does the F.D.A. regulate these additives?
In response to the California bill, which was released ahead of New York's, a coalition of food industry companies wrote an opposition letter stating that, "All five of these additives have been thoroughly reviewed by the federal and state systems and many international scientific bodies and continue to be deemed safe." A spokesman for the National Confectioners Association, a trade organization that represents candy manufacturers, echoed this in an email to The Times, saying their members adhere to F.D.A. guidelines.
An F.D.A. official wrote in an email to The Times that the agency evaluates food additives based on a number of factors, including the "amount expected to be consumed (dietary exposure)" and "laboratory studies supporting safety."
In practice, however, many chemicals are approved under a provision known as Generally Recognized As Safe, which states that a food additive can forego review by the F.D.A. if it has been deemed safe by "qualified experts."
If concerns arise after a chemical is already approved, or if new, relevant research becomes available, "The F.D.A. does re-evaluate the safety of ingredients," the agency official wrote. For example, the F.D.A. reviewed the evidence about titanium dioxide after the E.U. decided to ban it in 2022. The resulting report determined that there was "no evidence to suggest dietary exposure to the additive is a concern for human health."
One point of contention is that the vast majority of the research on these additives has been done in animals because it is difficult (and unethical) to conduct toxicology research in humans. As a result, "It's impossible to say that eliminating Red 3 or titanium dioxide from the American diet will reduce the number of people who suffer from cancer by a certain amount with total precision," Mr. Faber said. "But anything that we can do to reduce our exposure to carcinogens, whether known or suspected carcinogens, is a step in the right direction."
Dr. Sathyanarayana added that, "Although one individual food may not have a potentially harmful exposure concentration, the fact that we eat so many foods, it starts to add up in the body. And our regulatory system misses that entire concept."
How can I avoid these additives if I'm concerned?
The best way to steer clear of potentially hazardous food additives is to avoid eating prepared, processed foods and instead stick to fresh ingredients. If you are buying something packaged, be sure to read labels. Dr. Sathyanarayana said a good rule of thumb is to opt for foods with short ingredient lists and to skip foods with ingredients you can't pronounce. She mentioned the preservatives butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), sodium nitrate and sodium nitrite, and meat with bovine growth hormone as other chemicals to try to avoid.
According to the Environmental Working Group, over the past few years, several food manufacturers and grocery store chains have stopped using or selling products containing some or all of these additives. All five of the additives have chemical substitutes that serve the same purpose and have been deemed to be safer for human consumption -- but they're more expensive. If the bills are passed, it could motivate more brands to follow suit because it might not be economically prudent to produce one batch of products for California and New York and another for the rest of the U.S.
Some experts say the bills don't go far enough. Instead, they say a complete overhaul of the F.D.A.'s review process is necessary.
"While I appreciate that it's expedient to focus on five chemicals, it really misses a broader problem and a systemic problem," Dr. Trasande said. In a policy statement he and Dr. Sathyanarayana wrote on behalf of the American Academy of Pediatrics, they call for nine changes to how the federal government regulates food additives.
Similarly, Mr. Faber called the Generally Recognized As Safe review process a "loophole" that should be closed, saying that many of the outside experts who do the reviews are employed by the chemical companies that manufacture the additives.
"Consumers can certainly read labels and avoid these chemicals, but it shouldn't be up to consumers to keep us safe," he said. "We have an F.D.A. that was charged in 1958 to ensure the safety of these food chemicals, and the F.D.A. has let us down."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page D7.

Subject: Cancer; Research; Bans; Food products; Consumers; Additives; Ingredients; Candy; FDA approval; Titanium; Food additives; Manufacturers; Carcinogens; Chemicals; Working groups; Cosmetics; Baked goods; Pediatrics; Grocery stores

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers FDA approval Manufacturers Grocery stores

Location: New York; United States--US; California; Europe

Company / organization: Name: American Academy of Pediatrics; NAICS: 813920; Name: Environmental Working Group; NAICS: 813319

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/13/well/eat/food-additive-ban.html

Title: 2 States Weigh Bans on Common Food Additives:   [Science Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 25, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2805338986

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2-states-weigh-bans-on-common-food-additives/docview/2805338986/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 25, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-25

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Best Franchise Never to Win a Championship Tries Again: [Sports Desk]

Author: Branch, John

Publication info: Branch, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/best-franchise-never-win-championship-tries-again/docview/2801437315/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: DENVER -- It was 1976, 39 years before the arrival of Nikola Jokic, when the Denver Nuggets had their last best chance to win a championship.
Hair was big, shorts were small. The ball was red, white and blue. The Nuggets had the American Basketball Association's best record, again, and a roster with three future Hall of Famers.
But the New York Nets had Julius Erving, who led them to an upset in the finals. As the fans at the Nassau Coliseum rushed the court, the announcer shouted, "It's pandemonium!" Because it was the 1970s, and of course he did.
Not to worry, Nuggets fans. There would be more chances. Oh, so many chances.
The Nuggets are up to their 38th postseason chance now. No current team in major American pro sports has been to the playoffs so many times without winning a championship, according to Elias Sports Bureau.
That might make the Nuggets the best franchise to never win it all.
There are sadder teams in American sports, some with longer championship droughts and in decaying cities that could use more luck than Denver. For most of their titleless years, the Nuggets were good, and they were fun. They just cannot get the ending right.
The next best chance for the Nuggets comes now, eight years after the Denver arrival of Jokic, the two-time reigning most valuable player. Behind the 6-foot-11-inch human Swiss Army knife, the Nuggets earned the No. 1 seed in the N.B.A.'s Western Conference for the first time.
Maybe this is the year. A city awaits.
For now, the ghosts of "almost" are everywhere.
They are in Lot C next to the football stadium. They are at the downtown performing arts center at 13th and Champa.
And they are in the current arena, near the confluence of the South Platte River and Cherry Creek, where 19th-century miners set off the Colorado gold rush that would shape a city and a state and, one day, give a basketball team its name: Nuggets.
A Miner With a Pickax
Start in 1974, or 41 B.J. (Before Jokic). That's when Carl Scheer arrived in Denver as general manager, with a friend and coach named Larry Brown. They came to invigorate a seven-year-old A.B.A. franchise called the Rockets.
"Larry and I both felt that Denver was like a sleeping giant," Scheer told a Denver magazine in 1979. "It was just beginning to shed its Old West, cowtown image."
The Rockets played downtown, at Auditorium Arena. It was part of a massive blond-brick complex completed in 1908, in time for that year's Democratic convention. (William Jennings Bryan, if you must know, was on his way to losing the presidential election a third time.)
The arena might be most famous as the site of Led Zeppelin's first American concert in 1968. (A newspaper reviewer was not impressed by Robert Plant's singing or John Bonham's drumming.) Less famously, two nights later, the Rockets beat the Los Angeles Stars.
The Rockets had some good players, like Spencer Haywood his rookie year, but went through five coaches in five seasons. By 1974, they needed a reboot. And the name had to go, if Denver hoped to ever play in the N.B.A. There already were Rockets, in Houston.
Where to find a name? In the 1930s, Denver had a top amateur team called the Nuggets. That team eventually became part of the National Basketball League, which combined with the Basketball Association of America in 1949 to form the N.B.A. The Denver Nuggets were one of the 17 original N.B.A. teams -- the worst one. They did not return for a second season.
But in August 1974, Scheer unveiled a new/old name and a logo: a bearded cartoon miner holding a pickax in one hand and a basketball in the other. He wore tube socks and a prospector's hat with a flipped-up brim sporting a "D."
The groovy new Nuggets struck gold. That first team went 65-19. It lost the division finals.
But things moved fast, and the Nuggets moved up. In 1975 came a new home, McNichols Arena, named for a mayor. The first show was a Lawrence Welk concert; the best show was the Nuggets. They a-one and a-two'd their way to a 28-game home winning streak on their way to the league's best record.
They had Dan Issel, a charging, gaptoothed forward they called the Horse. They had the rookie David Thompson, a gravity-testing guard they soon called Skywalker, like the hero in "Star Wars." They had Bobby Jones, the slick defensive forward with shooting touch. All three would go to basketball's hall of fame.
Denver hosted the 1976 A.B.A. All-Star Game, and Scheer created a slam-dunk contest. ("To take the pressure off the backboards and rims, we're going to alternate sides," the public-address announcer said, in perfect Barnum-ese.) Artis Gilmore, George Gervin, even Thompson couldn't keep up with Dr. J.
That spring, Erving led the Nets to an upset of the Nuggets in the last A.B.A. final.
It would be hard to fathom that the Nuggets would never return to a league finals. That off-season, the summer of the nation's bicentennial and Colorado's centennial, the N.B.A. added four A.B.A. teams. Denver was the prize.
They were 52-30 during their first N.B.A. season, including 36-5 at home. They lost their first playoff series. But they made the postseason 11 more times in the next 13 years.
Every time, they fell short.
"There are 22 teams in this league," Scheer said in 1979, "and to be the champion you need good luck and good fortune. The most important thing is to stay competitive year after year, and then hope that you get luck and momentum going for you at the right time."
The right time never seemed to come.
Issel, Several Other Guys, and Issel
Lot C is on the southwest corner of the second-generation football stadium that everyone still calls Mile High.
There is no sign that McNichols Arena once squatted here. Big Mac, people called it, and it was kind of shaped like a burger.
There is no foul line where Dr. J took off for his most momentous dunk in 1976, no marker stating that this was the home of the original Colorado Rockies (an N.H.L. franchise that left to become the New Jersey Devils), no hint of the sideline that Nuggets Coach Doug Moe patrolled for more than a decade in his disheveled, profanity-laced glory.
There is no plaque commemorating the 1990 Final Four (U.N.L.V.) or the first Ultimate Fighting Championship in 1993. Nothing to note all the big-name rock concerts, the indoor-soccer franchise (the original Avalanche), the arena-football team.
Just pavement.
But there is a view. Looking east from Lot C is the Denver skyline -- the gold-domed state capitol, 17th Street's "Wall Street of the Rockies" lined with towers built of oil money, the skyscraper on Broadway meant to evoke a cash register.
The skyline looks nothing like the Lego-like one on the Nuggets' rainbow-colored uniforms from the 1980s. Divisive at the time -- Where is the miner?-- they are now the N.B.A.'s coolest throwbacks, evoking the go-go era of Moe's high-scoring teams.
All nine of Moe's teams, through the 1980s, made the playoffs. In 1982-83, they averaged 123.2 points per game despite making only 24 3-pointers. The next season, they played the highest-scoring game in league history.
"No one believes that we had zero plays on offense, but Doug would just scream at you, 'Don't hold the ball!"' Bill Hanzlik, who played on those teams, said. "It was pass, move, cut. That style of ball was fast, up and down, and we dominated at home. Fans really loved it."
Great players came and went. Alex English arrived to become the team's career leading scorer. Thompson was traded amid headlines of cocaine addiction. Kiki Vandeweghe was traded for Fat Lever, Calvin Natt and Wayne Cooper. Through it all was Issel, the Horse, the best-known Denver athlete before Elway got rolling in the stadium next door.
"The Nuggets were as popular as the Broncos," said Vic Lombardi, who grew up in Denver, was a Nuggets ball boy in the 1980s and became a local sportscaster and radio personality. "They were just as successful, just as competitive and got just as much attention."
The teams shared a habit of being great to watch but not good enough to win in the end. The Broncos rattled the old stadium in the fall, aspirations crumbling in January. The Nuggets raced down the court on cold winter nights, their hopes melting in the spring.
In 1990, they finished 43-39. Things seemed fine, in a Groundhog Day kind of way.
But the Nuggets fired Moe -- the start of 12 coaching changes in 15 years. If you believe in sports jinxes, Moe's firing might be one.
Or if you believe in phantoms, consider the gutting of the old Auditorium Arena about the same time.
The interior was turned into the lavish Buell Theater. And on the same snowy November Friday night that the theater opened to rave reviews with "The Phantom of the Opera," the Nuggets were at McNichols, opening the season with the first of 58 losses -- 120 losses over a two-year stretch. They were more cursed than Carlotta.
The rest of the 1990s did not go well. The skyline jersey was ditched. There was an anthem flap, a brief Dikembe Mutombo-led resurrection, and eight coaching changes that began and ended with Issel.
But the 1990s were great for other Denver sports. A top N.H.L. team came gift-wrapped from Quebec, was christened the Avalanche and immediately won a Stanley Cup -- the first major championship for the city. The Broncos and Elway finally won a Super Bowl, then another. The expansion Rockies arrived and attracted big crowds at a gem called Coors Field.
And in 2001, early in a seventh-straight losing season for the Nuggets, Issel called a postgame heckler a "Mexican piece of (expletive)" and soon skulked away.
Denver was rolling, without the sad little Nuggets.
Jokic Is Here. What Can Go Wrong?
Nikola Jokic was 4 when Pepsi Center opened in 1999. (Named then for a canned beverage, it is now Ball Arena, named for a canning company.) It went up on the west edge of downtown, near Speer Boulevard and Auraria Parkway, named for the original mining-camp settlement along Cherry Creek.
Inside the arena, in the rafters, the Nuggets are represented on one end, the Avalanche on the other.
The Avs, as they're called, have three Stanley Cup banners, including one from their first season in Denver and one from last season. They hope to repeat this spring.
The Nuggets have no championship banners, but nine division championships and a lot of retired numbers: Issel, Thompson, English, Lever and Mutombo among them. And there is a banner for Moe, marking his 432 victories.
George Karl was hired as the coach in 2005. He led the Nuggets on a Moe-like run of nine consecutive postseasons, the first six with Carmelo Anthony. They were good, fun to watch and almost always lost in the first round.
Karl's last team, 10 years ago, had a mishmash of talent that somehow got to 57 wins, a franchise high in the N.B.A., and were 38-3 at home. Only in hindsight does a first-round upset by the Warriors, with kids named Curry, Thompson and Green making their first playoff appearances, make any sense. Karl was fired.
Karl fell in love with Denver as a visiting A.B.A. player in the 1970s -- the oil-booming downtown, the vociferous fans, the fast-paced style of the early Nuggets, even their logo and colors. He still lives in Denver, and fans revere him, despite years of almosts and not quites.
"Fans do get anxious, they do get angry, they do get fanatical," Karl said. "But they have a lot of respect and love for the game of basketball here in Denver."
A year after Karl's firing, in 2014, the Nuggets used a second-round draft choice, the 41st overall, on a 19-year-old from Serbia named Nikola Jokic. He was 6-foot-11 and played in the Adriatic League.
Draft experts shrugged. Nuggets fans barely noticed. Jokic quietly joined Denver in 2015, the same time as another new coach, Michael Malone.
Jokic made the all-rookie team and eased into superstardom -- his game and humility draw comparisons to Tim Duncan -- and by 2019, he had ARRIVED, in all caps. He was a do-everything All-Star leading the Nuggets to the Western Conference's No. 2 seed. (They lost in the second round.)
Momentum has been building since. In 2020 came an unexpected playoff run. (Denver lost to the Lakers, again, in the conference finals.) In 2021, Jokic was named the league's most valuable player, the first in Nuggets history. (The team lost in the conference semifinals.) In 2022, he was M.V.P. again. (The Nuggets lost in the first round.)
This season, Jokic nearly averaged a triple-double -- double figures in points (24.5), rebounds (11.8) and assists (9.8). The team that revolves around him has gelled, especially guard Jamal Murray and forwards Michael Porter, Jr., and Aaron Gordon, all in their mid-20s.
And now, for the first time since joining the N.B.A. in 1976, the Nuggets will have the top seed in the Western Conference playoffs -- home-court advantage for every round before what would be their first-ever N.B.A. finals.
Not since that last year in the A.B.A., that first year in McNichols Arena, right after Lawrence Welk opened a squatty little paradise since paved into a parking lot, have they been so well positioned for a postseason.
Expectations are tempered. These are the Nuggets, after all. No basketball team spoils the promise of spring quite like them.
But Lombardi, the ball boy turned sportscaster, is adamant.
"If the Denver Nuggets win a championship," Lombardi said, "I contend it would produce the largest downtown parade this city has ever seen."
Could it be in 2023? Jokic is 28. The Nuggets are the best team never to win a title. There is gold to be mined, if they can finally discover it.
Photograph From left: In 1976, a strong Nuggets team ran into Julius Erving in the playoffs; Dikembe Mutombo is a Hall of Famer but never took the team to a title; Michael Malone has brought coaching stability. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MANNY MILLAN/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, VIA GETTY IMAGES; NATHANIEL S. BUTLER/NBAE VIA GETTY IMAGES; DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS); A fan with a sign, top, supporting Nikola Jokic, who wears No. 15 and is the N.B.A.'s two-time reigning most valuable player. Fans have also embraced Denver's rainbow-colored uniforms from the 1980s. Scorned then, they are now iconic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THEO STROOMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A28.

Subject: Football; Stadiums; Coaches & managers; Professional basketball

Location: Colorado; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Denver Nuggets; NAICS: 711211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/16/sports/basketball/denver-nuggets-playoffs-history.html

Title: The Best Franchise Never to Win a Championship Tries Again:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.28

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 16, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801437315

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/best-franchise-never-win-championship-tries-again/docview/2801437315/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Timeline of Snyder's Tumultuous Washington Commanders Tenure: [Sports Desk]

Author: Rhim, Kris; Belson, Ken

Publication info: Rhim, Kris; Belson, Ken. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/timeline-snyders-tumultuous-washington-commanders/docview/2801090141/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Owning one of the N.F.L.'s storied franchises was Dan Snyder's dream. But his 24 years atop the team were marked by defiance, public battles and scandal.
When Daniel Snyder, at 34, became the youngest person to buy an N.F.L. franchise in 1999, he ushered in a wave of optimism and promise for the Washington franchise, a bedrock of the league.
Coming off a 6-10 season, the team still raked in revenue from an ardent fan base that flocked in droves to the suburban Maryland stadium named for its late owner, Jack Kent Cooke. The franchise's biggest worry back then was how to finance parking that would accommodate them all, a concern that didn't seem to trouble Snyder, a lifelong fan who called buying the team "the most wonderful thing that's ever happened to me."
"In my dreams," Snyder said after the sale was confirmed, "we'd win the Super Bowl next year."
By the time he agreed in principle to sell the Washington Commanders for a record $ 6 billion on Thursday, Snyder was ravaged by scandals which drew N.F.L. investigations and legal inquiry. The formerly brash, big-spending owner had been pressured into changing the team's name and logo, buying out his partners and, eventually, to awaken from a dream which had turned into a nightmare for many.
Despite Snyder's dream, the team never won the Super Bowl in his tenure, or even made it as far as a conference championship game.
Here are some key moments from Daniel Snyder's tenure as owner of the N.F.L.'s Washington Commanders.
Snyder spends big on splashy free agents.
Stirring the fan base early, Snyder added future two future Hall of Famers, defensive end Bruce Smith and cornerback Deion Sanders, who signed a seven-year deal worth up to $ 56 million, as well as quarterback Jeff George. The moves backfired: Snyder fired Coach Norv Turner after Week 14, Washington missed the playoffs, and Sanders retired.
Washington becomes the first team to charge for training camp.
In a move that has since become the norm around the N.F.L., the team became the first to charge admission for training camp practices. Snyder said that the $ 10 a person charge would help improve access to players.
A playoff drought begins.
Washington won, 17-10, against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the 2005 N.F.C. Wild Card game, the franchise's last playoff victory.
Washington sues fans for $ 3.6 million.
In the midst of the Great Recession the team sued 125 fans for trying to back out of contracts to purchase season tickets. The team won judgments of $ 2 million against the fans, including many who defaulted on the contracts because of financial losses during the economic downturn.
Fans are barred from bringing signs and banners to games.
After starting the season 2-4, the team stripped head coach Jim Zorn of the responsibility to call plays, handing it to an assistant coach lured out of retirement in Week 5. The team banned spectators from bringing any signs or banners into FedEx Field, citing security and comfort, after an increase in the number of signs critical of Snyder and Vinny Cerrato, a front office executive. Washington lifted the ban a month later.
Snyder sues Washington City Paper for defamation.
Snyder sued The Washington City Paper for $ 1 million alleging that the 2010 article, "The Cranky Redskins Fan's Guide to Dan Snyder," defamed him and included an antisemitic depiction of him. In an interview with The New York Times Magazine, Snyder said that he never read the article, which charted various public missteps, "because he heard all of the details."
After seven months, Snyder dropped the lawsuit.
Unable to sell tickets, the team removes 10,000 seats from the stadium.
The team reduced the capacity of FedEx Field from 91,704, then the second-largest capacity in the N.F.L., to around 82,000 after failing to find takers for many 400-level seats.
Team gets salary cap penalty
An independent arbitrator upheld the N.F.L.'s decision to fine Washington and the Dallas Cowboys for overspending on player contracts during the league's uncapped 2010 season. Washington was penalized $ 18 million a year for two years, and Dallas paid $ 5 million a year for two years.
Snyder joined Jerry Jones in fighting the penalties, one of many times the owners of two of the most valuable franchises bonded on a host of league issues including labor and television rights negotiations. Cornerstones of a bloc of hard line owners, the friends even filmed a Papa John's commercial together in 2010. Jones would remain Snyder's staunchest ally as scandals enveloped the Washington franchise.
Facing protests over the team's name, Snyder says it will "never" change.
For almost 90 years, Washington's pro football team was known as the Redskins, a word that is considered a slur against Native Americans. Facing protests over the name and mascot, and a federal lawsuit over the trademark, Snyder told USA Today that he would never change the name. "It's that simple. Never -- you can use caps," he said.
Cheerleaders accuse the team of sexual harassment.
In 2018, five former cheerleaders told The New York Times that they were sexually harassed and intimidated by the team and sponsors during a trip to Costa Rica for a swimsuit calendar photo shoot. The cheerleaders described being "pimped out" to the team's male sponsors who were invited to photo shoots where the cheerleaders were made to pose for photos while scantily dressed or, in some cases, naked.
After an internal investigation that lasted four months, Washington announced changes to the cheerleading team, including "more conservative outfits," the inclusion of male cheerleaders, and a ban on suite holders at the team's photo shoots. In 2021, the cheerleading program was scrapped in favor a coed dance team.
Pressure from corporate sponsors leads Washington to retire its contentious nickname.
Days after the team's biggest corporate sponsor, FedEx, asked the team to reconsider its name and mascot, Washington announced in a statement that it would drop the name and logo and rebrand. The franchise would be identified as the Washington Football Team until a replacement was decided upon.
The move came weeks after other team sponsors, including Nike and Pepsi, received letters from investors who called on the companies to cut their ties with the team. On July 2, FedEx, which pays about $ 8 million a year to have its name on the team's stadium in Landover, Md., told the team in a letter that if the team did not change its nickname it would ask that "FedEx" be taken off the stadium at the end of the season.
Nike had stopped selling the team's gear, and Walmart, Target and Amazon -- some of the country's largest retailers -- had said they would stop selling Washington's merchandise on their websites.
Female employees detail sexual harassment and verbal abuse.
In July 2020, The Washington Post published an investigation into the mistreatment of the team's female employees, citing 15 former front office workers.
Snyder fired several top executives who were named in the harassment accusations and hired a Washington-based law firm, Wilkinson Stekloff, to look into the allegations. Larry Michael, a play-by-play broadcaster and senior vice president with the team, retired after several women accused him of making derogatory comments to female employees.
The N.F.L. took over the investigation, which "concluded that for many years the workplace environment at the Washington Football Team, both generally and particularly for women, was highly unprofessional." In July 2021 the team was penalized $ 10 million and Snyder agreed to step away from the day-to-day operations of the team, handing the reins to his wife, Tanya.
More employees come forward on sexual misconduct in the workplace.
In August the Washington Post published a report detailing claims from 25 women who said that they experienced sexual harassment while working for the team dating back to 2008, including an allegation that a male staff member recorded lewd videos at cheerleader calendar photo shoots specifically for Snyder. The staff member and Snyder denied the claims.
Jon Gruden's emails to the team president go public.
The New York Times and Wall Street Journal published emails sent between 2011 and 2018 in which Jon Gruden, the former Buccaneers coach turned TV analyst, wrote racist and misogynist comments to Bruce Allen, then the president of the Washington team.
The emails were discovered during a review of workplace misconduct at the Washington Football Team. As the women who brought forward sexual harassment claims against the team lobbied for the N.F.L.'s investigation to be made public, members of Congress sought to review related documents.
FedEx stands collapse on Eagles fans.
Several Philadelphia Eagles fans fell from their seats when a railing near a player tunnel collapsed, nearly landing on Eagles quarterback Jalen Hurts after a game in 2022. The fans sued the Commanders, and the litigation is ongoing.
Washington adopts the name Commanders.
After a two-year search, the team's announcement of a new name and logo were leaked ahead of the official rollout, which included a hype video that showcased the team's former, and potentially offensive, name.
Accusers at Congress implicate Snyder in new harassment claims.
At a congressional round table, two former team employees accused Snyder of creating a toxic workplace, with one claiming that he touched her inappropriately and another stating that he hosted a work event at his Aspen, Colo., home for which team executives hired prostitutes. Snyder called the allegations "outright lies." The N.F.L. opened a second investigation into the team, led by the former S.E.C. chair Mary Jo White.
A congressional subcommittee referred claims of the team's financial improprieties to the F.T.C.
Congress says Snyder conducted a "shadow investigation" of accusers.
In a 29-page memo, the House Committee on Oversight and Reform said Snyder directed a "shadow investigation" to interfere with and undermine the N.F.L.'s investigation, using private investigators to harass and intimidate witnesses, and creating a 100-page dossier targeting victims, witnesses and journalists who had shared "credible public accusations of harassment" against the team.
The memo came ahead of N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell's testimony before the committee, in which he defended the league's inquiry.
Snyder could not be served with a subpoena as he was out of the country. He later sits for a daylong private deposition and, in December, the committee concludes that Snyder impeded the investigation.
An N.F.L. owner calls for Snyder's removal.
At an N.F.L. team owners meeting, Jim Irsay, the owner of the Indianapolis Colts, said that there was "merit" to remove Snyder. Such a move would require at least 24 of the league's 32 owners to agree and would set a precedent for the league.
"We have to act," Irsay said. "He needs to be removed."
Snyders look for buyers for the Commanders.
Snyder announced that he hired bankers to explore a potential sale of some or all of the Commanders.
Federal probe of team's finances added to mounting criminal and civil inquiries.
An ESPN report details that federal prosecutors in Virginia are investigating allegations of financial misconduct by Snyder and the Washington Commanders, stemming from a $ 55 million loan taken without the knowledge of his partners.
Snyder and the team also face several other inquiries, including from the attorney general for the state of Virginia into financial improprieties and two since-settled lawsuits filed by Karl Racine, the Washington D.C. attorney general, over season ticket sales.
Snyder agrees in principle to sell Commanders.
Josh Harris, an owner of the N.B.A.'s Philadelphia 76ers and the N.H.L.'s New Jersey Devils, agreed in principle to buy the Washington Commanders for a record $ 6 billion.
Photograph Deion Sanders, middle, then a new quarterback, with Dan Snyder, left, and the team's head coach, Norv Turner, in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/AFP, VIA GETTY IMAGES); Jim Zorn during a home game in 2009. After starting the season 2-4, the team stripped him of the responsibility to call plays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Walt Harris, cornerback, in 2006, at the N.F.C. Wild Card game. It was the franchise's last playoff victory before a drought began. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STREETER LECKA/GETTY IMAGES); Snyder agreed in principle to sell the Washington Commanders, the N.F.L. team he has owned for 24 years, amid multiple scandals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN KRAUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS); In 2019, Native American leaders called for Snyder to change the name of the team, then the Washington Redskins, immediately. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE KLUCKHOHN/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Former Commanders employees discussing workplace misconduct and the N.F.L.'s failure to prevent sexual harassment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN NEWTON/THE WASHINGTON POST, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (B8) This article appeared in print on page B8.

Subject: Professional football; Franchises; Mascots; Sexual harassment; Tenure; Logos; Coaches & managers; Defamation; Cheerleaders; Litigation; Corporate sponsorship; Female employees

Business indexing term: Subject: Franchises Logos Corporate sponsorship Female employees

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Gruden, Jon; Snyder, Daniel M

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990; Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340; Name: Washington City Paper; NAICS: 513110; Name: Washington Commanders; NAICS: 711211; Name: Washington Football Team; NAICS: 711211; Name: FedEx Corp; NAICS: 484110, 492110, 551114

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/14/sports/fo otball/dan-snyder-washington-commanders-key-moments.html

Title: A Timeline of Snyder's Tumultuous Washington Commanders Tenure:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 15, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2801090141

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/timeline-snyders-tumultuous-washington-commanders/docview/2801090141/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 15, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Following In These Footsteps: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Marsh, Calum

Publication info: Marsh, Calum. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/following-these-footsteps/docview/2798020573/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: "Air" tells the origin story of the iconic brand, but it's long had a hold on Hollywood, from "Do the Right Thing" to "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse."
In "Air," the new biographical sports drama about Nike's 1984 effort to land an endorsement deal with then-N.B.A. rookie Michael Jordan, the Air Jordan is the sneaker holy grail. Designed by the eccentric genius Peter Moore, the sleek, stylish basketball shoe seems not so much created as discovered -- as if, Moore says in the film, "it's always been here," much the way Michelangelo found his sculptures "already complete within the marble block."
The film, directed by Ben Affleck, tells the story of how the Air Jordan came to be. If anything, the movie undersells the Air Jordan's pop cultural significance: Almost as soon as the sneaker was released, it become a phenomenon, not only raising the ceiling for shoe sales but also redefining the very limits of footwear success. In the four decades since its debut, the Air Jordan has continued to thrive: Jordan Brand, now a subsidiary of Nike, earned more than $ 5 billion in sales in 2022. Retro Air Jordan releases often sell out in minutes, with aftermarket demand routinely driving resale prices into four figures and beyond.
Before its reverent screen treatment in "Air," the Air Jordan already had an important place in movie history, as the unheralded star -- sometimes central, sometimes lurking in the background -- of countless motion pictures. To better understand how the shoe's role in pop culture has evolved over the years, we looked back at some of its most notable big-screen appearances.
'Do the Right Thing'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
In a famous scene in Spike Lee's Brooklyn-set "Do the Right Thing," the chippy Buggin Out (Giancarlo Esposito) is looking fresh in a clean pair of Air Jordan 4s -- until a run-in with a boorish local gentrifier (John Savage) leaves them lamentably scuffed. "You stepped on my brand-new white Air Jordans I just bought!" Buggin Out howls in outrage.
It's an unforgivable affront, and one any sneakerhead knows all too well: Like a dent in a new car, a scuff is hard to come back from. And as the scene makes amusingly clear, a brand-new pair of Jordans isn't cheap -- even in 1989. "How much did you pay for those, man?" a friend asks, indignant on Buggin's behalf. Other pals chime in: "A hundred bucks! American dollars! A hundred and eight with tax!"
This scene quickly achieved a kind of immortality among sneaker collectors, and in 2017, Jordan Brand paid tribute to the film with a special-edition release. The exclusive Jordan 4s were designed to look exactly like the ones Buggin Out wore -- complete with replica scuff.
'Space Jam'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
For Jordan's much-anticipated screen debut, it was only reasonable that His Airness should don an exclusive set of kicks. "Space Jam" -- in which Jordan, playing himself, helps Bugs Bunny and the Looney Tunes defeat the evil alien Nerdlucks on the court -- saw the unveiling of the Air Jordan 11 in an exclusive white, black and purple colorway, featured prominently throughout the film's climactic game.
Although the movie came out in 1996, at what was arguably the height of Jordan's N.B.A. career, the shoe was not made available until 2000, when it instantly became a collector's item. (It was rereleased in 2009 and again in 2016.) To this day, the Space Jam Jordan remains one of the most beloved editions of the popular silhouette -- and the film remains one of the most enduring love letters to the beauty of the shoe.
'He Got Game'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
Spike Lee had deep ties with Nike going back to 1986 when he played Mars Blackmon in his debut feature, "She's Gotta Have It," later reprising the role in a series of TV commercials for the Air Jordan. When he set out to make "He Got Game," he leveraged that connection, managing to secure a pair of then-unreleased Jordan 13s months before they were available to the public or even worn by Jordan himself on the court.
Denzel Washington stars as Jake Shuttlesworth, a convict offered a chance for a commuted life sentence if he can persuade his estranged son, Jesus (Ray Allen), one of the country's top high school basketball prospects, to enroll at the governor's alma mater. Shortly after being let out on work release, Jake heads to a sneaker store, where the clerk (Avery Glymph) immediately shows off the latest Jordan model. "I was all about Jordans, and to have those shoes in my hands, knowing I was like the first person to hold them, was kind of cool," Glymph told Andscape magazine in 2019.
'White House Down'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The Air Jordan's appeal is so democratic that in the action blockbuster "White House Down," even the leader of the free world wears them. Jamie Foxx, as President James Sawyer, dons a pair of Air Jordan 4s in the fan-favorite Fire Red colorway, using them to sneak past armed terrorists during an attempted kidnapping and violent White House takeover. ("Get your hands off my Jordans!" Sawyer bellows, as one tenacious bad guy wrestles with him on the floor.) It's a small appearance, but one that makes clear the Jordan's ascendancy from basketball shoe to streetwear staple to common accessory with formal tailoring.
'Kicks'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
When Brandon (Jahking Guillory), a 15-year-old sneakerhead of limited means, lucks into a coveted pair of Air Jordan 1s for pennies on the dollar, they become his most prized possession, lifting his spirits and imbuing him with newfound confidence. He's so in love with the shoes that he's reluctant to do anything in them, sitting out a pickup game for fear they'll get mussed. "They're called Jordans," his friend teases him. "He played basketball!"
"Kicks," an indie drama from the director Justin Tipping, follows Brandon as he tries to track down his Air Jordans after they're stolen by gangsters, an adventure that puts him in danger. The film shows how desperately a kid like Brandon can pine after Jordans, and how Jordans can come to mean much more than footwear. "They're not just shoes," Brandon asserts at one point, and the film compellingly demonstrates that truth.
'Uncle Drew'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The goofy sports satire "Uncle Drew" stars Dallas Mavericks point guard Kyrie Irving as the eponymous elderly basketball legend, a character he played in several popular Pepsi Max commercials in the early 2010s. But the movie is really about Dax (Lil Rel Howery), an amateur basketball coach with lofty aspirations who is struggling to make his sports dreams come true.
Dax works a day job at Foot Locker, where he's prevailed upon by his team's vain and entitled star player, Casper (Aaron Gordon), to use his insider connections to buy every player a matching set of Jordan 11s. It's a staggering expense he can barely afford, and it fails to prevent Casper from ditching his team for a rival's soon afterward. Interestingly, the sneaker itself is the rereleased Space Jam Jordan 11 from 2016, drawing a connection between Irving's Uncle Drew and the classic Michael Jordan film.
'Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse'
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
The single most iconic screen Jordan since "Space Jam" arrived in the animated superhero flick "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse." The new Spider-Man Miles Morales (the voice of Shameik Moore) wears a pair of Air Jordan 1s in the original Chicago colorway, playfully loose, laces untied. (That is remarked upon so often that it becomes a running joke.) The sneakers are variously lingered over, zoomed in on and even featured prominently on the movie's poster. The focus brought new attention to the classic sneaker, and introduced a generation of viewers to a shoe whose original heyday came before many of them were born. To commemorate the film, Jordan Brand released a special edition Jordan 1 with a distinctive webbed pattern, known as the Spider-Man Origin Story.
Photograph PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BUENA VISTA PICTURES; COLUMBIA PICTURES; UNIVERSAL PICTURES) (AR10); Matthew Maher, left, as the sneaker designer Peter Moore and Matt Damon as the sports marketing executive Sonny Vaccaro in "Air." (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMAZON STUDIOS) (AR10-AR11); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COLUMBIA PICTURES; FOCUS FEATURES; LIONSGATE) (AR11) This article appeared in print on page AR10, AR11.

Subject: Athletic shoes; Motion pictures; Shoes & boots; High school basketball

People: Lee, Spike; Jordan, Michael

Company / organization: Name: Nike Inc; NAICS: 315250, 316210, 339920, 424340

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/05/movies/air-jordan-sneaker.html

Title: Following In These Footsteps:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 9, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2798020573

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/following-these-footsteps/docview/2798020573/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Margot Stern Strom, Who Traced the Roots Of Racism, Dies at 81: [Biography]

Author: Sandomir, Richard

Publication info: Sandomir, Richard. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/margot-stern-strom-who-traced-roots-racism-dies/docview/2793848645/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: She started an organization whose curriculums challenge teenagers to understand the roots of the Holocaust, racism, apartheid and other human injustices.
Margot Stern Strom, a former schoolteacher who in the mid-1970s turned her dismay over her lack of knowledge about the Holocaust into a nonprofit educational organization that develops anti-hate curriculums for teenagers, died on Tuesday at her home in Brookline, Mass. She was 81.
Her daughter, Rachel Fan Stern Strom, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.
Ms. Strom was teaching seventh- and eighth-grade language arts and social studies at the Runkle School in Brookline in 1975 when she and a colleague, Bill Parsons, attended a workshop on the Holocaust. It was an unsettling experience, which made them realize how little they knew about the Nazis' murder of six million Jews.
She and Mr. Parsons, she was quoted as recalling on the website of Facing History & Ourselves, the organization they went on to found, felt that they had been "victims of the silence on the Holocaust."
"And now, as teachers," she added, "we were perpetuating that silence."
It was the seed for their creation of Facing History, which uses injustices like the Holocaust, the Armenian genocide, Jim Crow laws that enforced segregation, apartheid in South Africa and the George Floyd killing to help guide eighth to 12th graders' understanding of the motivations behind racism, extremism and antisemitism, as well as their moral implications and the power of people to shape history's course.
"She believed it was important, and possible, to connect the early development of adolescents with some of the larger issues of human experience," Martha Minow, a Harvard Law School professor who sits on Facing History's board of scholars, said by phone. "As a teacher, she recognized them as people who could have important reflections on different subjects."
In 1978, two years after starting Facing History, Ms. Strom said that she understood that teaching the Holocaust was a risk because it raised issues about antisemitism and was not being taught much at the time.
"Good education has to talk about prejudice and racism and conflict, but it is easier not to," she told The Boston Globe's Sunday magazine, New England, in 1978 -- voicing a view that resonates today, with disputes raging in some states about what schools should teach about those issues.
The Holocaust curriculum was used, for example, by a high school class in Chelsea, Mass., "as a case study in why it is we shouldn't turn our backs on someone who is homeless," Carol Resnek, the class's teacher, told The Globe in 1995, and "why we should help people when something is happening that shouldn't be happening."
Ms. Strom faced opposition from the United States Department of Education when she sought federal grants from 1986 to 1988. An outside member of a review panel complained in 1986 that Facing History's curriculum did not represent the views of the Ku Klux Klan and the Nazi Party. The next year, the panel labeled the curriculum "leftist," "antiwar" and "offensive to fundamentalists." The conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly opposed it.
Ms. Strom said the Nazi films and documents that were used in Facing History's curriculum amply demonstrated the horror of the Nazi position. "What in the world is the view of the Nazis, that it's good to murder people?" she asked in an interview with The New York Times in 1989, after the organization's funding had been denied for a third time. "Facing History does not teach that that's an appropriate point of view."
The issue arose again in 1995. Weeks after being hired as the historian of the House of Representatives, Christina Jeffrey was fired by Newt Gingrich, the House speaker, after he learned that she was the review panelist who had criticized the Facing History panel for not giving balance to the Nazi and Ku Klux Klan points of view.
"It's old history," Ms. Strom said at the time, "and I never expected it to return."
Margot Stern was born on Nov. 10, 1941, in Chicago. She was 5 when her parents, Lloyd and Fannye (Wener) Stern, moved to Memphis, where they owned a furniture store.
As a girl, Margot came to understand the realities of living in Memphis, where a sign showed where "coloreds" could enter the zoo; only one Jewish teenager a year was allowed on her high school cheerleader squad; and water fountains were marked "colored" and "white."
"If you're a child, of course you choose 'colored,"' she told The Globe in 1986. "'Colored' means rainbows, blue, red, pink. It's a lot more interesting than white water ... yet you follow the rules of the world. You get pushed toward the white fountain."
She earned a bachelor's degree in history at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1964, then taught middle school in Skokie, Ill., before moving in 1968 to Tampa, Fla., where her husband, Dr. Terry Strom, was serving as a captain in the Air Force. She worked as a model for two years, appearing in print advertisements for Pepsi and other products, then moved to Massachusetts in 1970 and resumed teaching, at the Runkle School. In 1977, she received a certificate of advanced study from a program on moral development at Harvard University's Graduate School of Education.
From the start, Ms. Strom placed an emphasis on training teachers in Facing History's curriculums rather than simply providing the course work to school districts. In 1977, with the program already being taught in Brookline schools, the organization received a $ 58,000 three-year federal grant to train about 400 educators throughout Massachusetts.
As Facing History grew, it provided training to teachers in workshops and seminars and online. The organization says that an estimated 150,000 teachers around the world regularly use its curriculum, as a discrete course or as elements in other courses. It also posts new classroom lessons online as events unfold, like the massacre of 11 people at a Pittsburgh synagogue in 2018.
"Margot knew that to teach a subject like the Holocaust you had to deal with teachers," Carol Gilligan, a professor of humanities and applied psychology at New York University who serves on the organization's board of scholars, said by phone. She added: "If you can teach the Holocaust to children, you can teach anything. The horrors are so great."
Ms. Strom remained the group's executive director until her retirement in 2014. Mr. Parsons, who was the program director until 1988, later became the chief of staff of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Strom is survived by her son, Adam; four grandsons; a sister, Paula Stern; and a brother, Gerald. Her husband, a researcher in organ transplant immunology, died in 2017 at 76.
Ms. Strom said that young people must be trusted to examine some of the most difficult eras in human history.
"It's scary to walk in someone else's shoes," she told Ed., the Harvard Graduate School of Education's magazine, in 2015. "But you can imagine it if you're taught about it. There's a need for truth telling and widening perspectives."
Photograph Margot Stern Strom in 1989. She worked with teenagers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAY FOTO); Ms. Strom, founder of Facing History and Ourselves, guided students' understanding of the Holocaust and other injustices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL PALMER) This article appeared in print on page A17.

ERIC Subject: Adolescents; Language Arts; Federal Aid; Moral Development; Middle Schools; Racial Segregation; Social Studies; Death; Course Content; Resistance (Psychology)

Subject: Holocaust; Racism; Deaths; Teachers; Prejudice

People: Strom, Margot Stern

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/01/us/margot-stern-strom-dead.html

Title: Margot Stern Strom, Who Traced the Roots Of Racism, Dies at 81:   [Biography ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.17

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 3, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Obituary

ProQuest document ID: 2793848645

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/margot-stern-strom-who-traced-roots-racism-dies/docview/2793848645/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 3, 2023

Last updated: 2024-08-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Never Mind About DeSantis: [Op-Ed]

Author: Collins, Gail; Stephens, Bret

Publication info: Collins, Gail; Stephens, Bret. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/never-mind-about-desantis/docview/2788643783/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Bret Stephens: Hi, Gail. I guess we have to talk about Donald Trump's potential indictment and arrest, right? But before we go there: You know how I told you that I'd vote for Ron DeSantis over Joe Biden?
Well, never mind.
Gail Collins: Bret! You're gonna vote for our big-spending president? Student-loan forgiver? Tax-the-richer?
Bret: I'm still holding out faint hope that Nikki Haley or Tim Scott or my friend Vivek Ramaswamy or some other sound and sane Republican long shot somehow gets the nomination.
Gail: Happy to gear up for that fight.
Bret: But for DeSantis to call Russia's invasion of Ukraine a "territorial dispute" in which the United States does not have a "vital interest" tells me that he's totally unfit to be president. He's pandering to the Tucker Carlson crowd.
Gail: The Terrible Tuckerites ...
Bret: He is parroting Kremlin propaganda. He's undermining NATO. He's endangering America by emboldening other dictators with "territorial disputes," starting with China's Xi Jinping. He's betraying the heroism and sacrifice of the Ukrainian people. He's turning himself into a kind of Diet Pepsi to Trump's Diet Coke. He's showing he's just another George Costanza Republican, whose idea of taking a foreign policy stand is to "do the opposite" of whatever the Democrats do.
Gail: Wow, can't believe I've found someone who thinks less of DeSantis than I do.
Bret: So, about Donald: to indict and arrest or not to indict and arrest? That's the question. Where do you come down?
Gail: No real doubts on the guilt front, and I'm pretty confident we'll eventually see an indictment. The question is -- what then? I'm hoping for a procedure in which he has to appear in public to answer the charges but doesn't get treated in any way that'll cause any not-totally-crazy supporters to gather for a riot.
Bret: True, though why do I get the sense that Trump is practically jumping for joy? I mean, the first indictment of a former American president is going to be over what is typically a misdemeanor? I yield to nobody in my disgust with the guy, but so far, this sounds like prosecutorial abuse and political malpractice. Democrats will live to regret it.
But to go from the horrifying to the truly horrifying: How goes your banking crisis?
Gail: Bret, would definitely appreciate this not being "my" banking crisis.
Bret: Give the crisis about six months. Or six weeks. Or maybe six days. It'll be all of ours. Suggest you buy inflation-proof assets, like a rare instrument or 50-year-old Scotch.
Gail: Or some great old wine! Although in my house it'd never outlast the bank bust.
As to a response, I'm in Bidenesque territory -- the government does what it has to do to stabilize the situation, including covering the deposits in delinquent institutions like Silicon Valley Bank. But the only people who get rescued are the depositors.
Bret: The big mistake of the administration was to bail out all the depositors, including a lot of very rich people who ought to have known better, instead of sticking to the F.D.I.C. limit of $ 250,000. Now the Feds have bailed out a bunch of rich, foolish and undeserving Silicon Valley dipsticks while creating an implicit, and systemically dangerous, guarantee for all depositors at all banks.
Gail: I don't love the idea of helping out $ 250,000-plus depositors, even over the short term, but this is not a good moment to destabilize the whole economy.
Over the long term, however, those banks, their managers and big stockholders are going to have to be held accountable. Also Congress, which watered down regulations on midsize banks a few years back.
Bret: Hard to tell whether the real issue was inadequate regulation, a badly run bank or -- my guess -- far deeper problems in the economy. Turns out Silicon Valley Bank didn't even have a full-time chief risk officer for much of last year.
Gail: You will notice I haven't mentioned the Federal Reserve. Saving that for you ...
Bret: The Fed now has two bad problems, both of them largely of its own making. The first is inflation, which remains stubbornly high and was brought on in part because interest rates were too low for way too long. The second is an economy, particularly the banking sector, that seems to be seriously ill prepared for an era of higher rates. A classic Scylla and Charybdis situation, through which Jay Powell is somehow supposed to steer us. My advice to Powell -- other than to tie himself to the mast -- is to continue to raise rates, even if it means recession, and call for fiscal relief in the form of tax breaks for businesses ....
Gail: Stopstopstop. Bret, Congress has to get a budget passed somehow, and the Republican plan is so nutty that even some Republicans don't buy it. You're suggesting that we cut taxes for businesses that are already making handsome profits.
Bret: Businesses may be looking forward to a steep recession and much steeper borrowing costs. It's a recipe for collapsing revenues and mass layoffs for businesses large and small. Better for the government to lighten the load for employers, even if it means piling on additional federal debt. In fact, it could be a good way to solve the debt-ceiling question.
Gail: The people who are demanding this kind of bonanza for the rich are the same ones who are violently opposed to giving the deeply underfunded I.R.S. any new money. What could be worse than efficiently monitoring tax compliance?
Bret: We're both in favor of giving the I.R.S. the funding it needs to answer taxpayer phone calls. But if the economy is about to fall off a cliff, I don't think the answer is to make sure the taxman is at the bottom of it, picking the pockets of the dead and wounded. Gail, this topic is ... getting me down. You wrote a column last week saying that Kamala Harris is definitely staying on Joe Biden's ticket. That gets me down, too, but please explain further.
Gail: Well, we both agreed for quite a while that if Biden ran again, he should pick a different veep.
Bret: Like Gina Raimondo, the commerce secretary, or Michelle Lujan Grisham, the governor of New Mexico, or Danielle Allen, the brilliant Harvard political philosopher who has the added virtue of not being a politician.
Gail: Yes, but then I gave it a long, hard thought -- trying to imagine how that would work out. Tossing Harris off the ticket would be hugely disrespectful. There's nothing she's done that deserves that kind of insult.
Bret: Did Nelson Rockefeller deserve it? Politics is politics.
Gail: There are lots of terrific women in high places -- governors and senators -- who'd be terrific as vice president. But we aren't starting from scratch. Harris has made some errors in her current job, but she's done some good things, too. Just don't think this rises to the occasion of Throw Her Out.
Bret: To me, she's Dan Quayle-level ridiculous -- and George H.W. Bush would have been wise to toss Quayle from the ticket in 1992. You can bet that whoever the Republican nominee is next year will hammer away at Biden's age and her shortcomings -- like saying we have a secure border with Mexico or confusing North and South Korea -- to very good political effect.
Gail: Let's go back to the president you ... may be willing to vote to re-elect. He's fighting hard to reduce federal student debt payments for low- and moderate-income people. I remember your not loving this idea in the past. Any change of heart?
Bret: Nope. The problem we have with the banks stems from what economists call moral hazard -- basically, encouraging risky behavior. Pardoning student debt is another form of moral hazard: It encourages people to take out loans unwisely in the expectation that they might one day be forgiven. If we are forgiving college loans now, why not forgive mortgages next? Also, it's an unconstitutional usurpation of Congress's legislative prerogatives. Democrats objected when Trump steered Defense Department money to building the border wall without congressional authorization; Democrats shouldn't further establish a bad precedent.
Assuming you see it otherwise.
Gail: Yeah. A lot of these people have been making loan payments for decades without making much progress in erasing the actual debt. None of them are rich, and a lot are struggling endlessly.
I can understand the resentment from folks who made a great effort and did pay off their loans. But we're talking, in general, about people who were given the impression that borrowing large amounts of money to get a no-frills degree was a great investment that always paid off.
Bret: If the government is expected to backstop everybody's bad or dumb decisions, the country would bankrupt itself in a week. Part of living in a free society is being responsible for your choices, including your mistakes.
Gail: I'm looking at this as a one-time shot that's worth taking. But I have to admit I don't love the idea of Biden acting without congressional authorization. Even though he wouldn't have gotten it.
Sigh.
Bret: Never mind Congress -- I can't see this getting past the Supreme Court, so what we're really talking about is another phony campaign promise.
Gail: Well, I guess it's a case of what ought to be versus what can be. But I still think there should be loan forgiveness for those who've spent half their lives trying to pay off a debt they were generally too young and uninformed to realize they should avoid.
Really, Bret, who wants to perpetually punish people who fell for the siren call of "borrow money for your education"?
Bret: In the meantime, Gail, we have Wyoming outlawing abortion pills. We'll need to devote more time to the subject soon, but all I'll say for now is: When the world goes to hell, it has a way of getting there fast.
Gail: I've been thinking about Wyoming so much, Bret. Let's go at it in depth next week. But if you hear that I was caught growling in public, you'll know why.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A25.

Subject: Moral hazard; Banking industry; Territorial issues; Political parties; Student debt; Presidents; Banks; Interest rates; Loans; Recessions; Presidential elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Moral hazard Banking industry Student debt Banks Interest rates Loans Recessions

Location: United States--US

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr; Trump, Donald J; DeSantis, Ron

Company / organization: Name: Silicon Valley Bank-Santa Clara CA; NAICS: 522110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/20/opinion/ron-desantis-trump-silicon-valley-bank.html

Title: Never Mind About DeSantis:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.25

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 21, 2023

column: The Conversation

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2788643783

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/never-mind-about-desantis/docview/2788643783/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

One Russian's Path From Quiet Life to Trenches: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Macfarquhar, Neil; Mazaeva, Milana

Publication info: Macfarquhar, Neil; Mazaeva, Milana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/one-russians-path-quiet-life-trenches/docview/2783549588/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Pvt. Ivan Ovlashenko was one of at least 16,000 Russians who have died in Ukraine, more than in the Soviets' Afghan war. It's getting hard for the Kremlin to cover that up.
Soon after he deployed to Ukraine last fall, Pvt. Ivan A. Ovlashenko filmed a short video of himself wearing camouflage fatigues and an olive green fleece hat, sitting in a woods flecked with yellowing leaves while fellow soldiers nearby readied an artillery round to fire toward the Ukrainian lines.
"I am recording everything right," he said, grinning before shouting a warning, "Mortar!" The clip was meant to reassure relatives back in Russia that his sudden transition to frontline artilleryman was coming along just fine.
Until it wasn't.
Last September, President Vladimir V. Putin ordered the mobilization of 300,000 men to bolster sagging Russian defenses in Ukraine. At the time, the hordes of men who fled Russia to avoid conscription attracted the most attention. Yet hundreds of thousands of Russians like Private Ovlashenko -- factory laborers and electricians, medical orderlies and basketball players, tractor drivers and school workers -- went off to war.
The promise of payouts of $ 3,000 or $ 4,000 a month proved a huge incentive, along with appeals to machismo and the defense of the motherland. "What am I, not a man?" Mr. Ovlashenko told two women, his sister and his former wife. "I need to protect my country, my daughter."
In lengthy interviews, the women said they were surprised how Mr. Ovlashenko, largely apolitical to this point, suddenly began parroting the government's far-fetched talking point about the West planning to use Ukraine as a staging ground to attack Russia. If he did not fight in Ukraine, he said, he would have to battle the enemy on the streets of Bataysk, his hometown, a railroad hub just outside the southwestern city of Rostov-on-Don.
The mobilization shifted the calculus of the war. It was no longer some distant "military operation," as the Kremlin still calls it, fought by contract soldiers, mercenaries and Ukrainian separatists press-ganged into service. Suddenly, ordinary Russians were thrust into the trenches.
Now, more than five months later, the tempo of dead and wounded returning to Russia is picking up, with zinc coffins arriving in places like Bataysk. It is a pattern repeating itself across Russia, even if the dead remain largely hidden.
"The numbers are secret," said Max Trudolyubov, a Russian political analyst and newspaper columnist based in Vilnius, Lithuania. "The mobilized are from small towns, faraway places. The strategy is to spread the losses as thinly as possible across the country."
Western intelligence officials estimate that 200,000 soldiers on the Russian side have been killed or wounded in the war. Of those, more than 16,000 have been confirmed dead in public sources, according to a project conducted jointly by Mediazona, an independent Russian news outlet, the BBC News Russian Service and volunteer researchers. While the true number is undoubtedly far higher, even that figure already exceeds the official death toll during the Soviet Union's nine-year war in Afghanistan.
The dead include more than 1,366 new recruits, according to the project. Private Ovlashenko, 30, was one of them.
He grew up in Bataysk, a descendant of a long line of railroad workers, and was just 16 months younger than his sister, Valentina, with whom he was very close.
Valentina Strelkova, her married name, remembers her brother as a skinny, agile, fearless child -- a potential circus acrobat. He remained devoted to his sister throughout his life, she said, dropping whatever he was doing whenever she needed him.
After he completed his compulsory military service, he went to work for Pepsi in merchandising.
Valeria Ovlashenka worked for Pepsi, too, in sales. When she spurned his advances, he gave a party for the entire staff, greeting her with a bouquet. He soon proposed, and the next day she discovered that she was pregnant. They married in March 2017, and their daughter, Polina, was born later that summer.
They quarreled frequently, not least over how to raise their daughter. Ms. Ovlashenka sought to replicate her own strict upbringing, while her husband made Polina the center of his life. He ironed her diapers and put her to sleep. He bought her toys and candy, took her to see the sea, and taught her to pick mushrooms in the deep northern forests. "It was always a holiday for the child," she said.
They divorced after two years but neither dated anybody else, and Ms. Ovlashenka always hoped that they would reunite.
The mobilization summons on Sept. 26 came as a shock to his ex-wife and his sister, especially since Mr. Ovlashenko signed it immediately. "He was never interested or involved in political news," said his sister.
He told his ex-wife of his decision to enlist when he was bringing their daughter back after a weekend, saying that he was leaving the next day. "He said it with such a smirk, as if he was leaving for a sanitarium," she said, "I tried to talk him out of it." She called the whole situation meaningless, arguing that he should stay home to raise Polina.
"I didn't see my husband as a patriot," she said. "I think that he just wanted a change of scenery."
Mr. Ovlashenko's father and sister drove to the training camp, more than an hour away, every day. They were given a list of necessities to rustle up -- basically, everything except his flak jacket and helmet. They bought him warmer clothes, kneepads, a sleeping bag, a backpack and two balaclavas, among other equipment, spending more than $ 1,200. He was embarrassed, but grateful, and eventually the local regional government reimbursed them.
Mr. Ovlashenko was unexpectedly dispatched to Donetsk after just a week at the camp, his family said. During his earlier military service, he had been a driver. This time, he was assigned to an artillery unit. The newly mobilized soldiers received no training at the training center, he told them: "Everything I learned, I learned at the front."
He never shared exactly where he was, but with each call, the sound of big guns rumbled ever louder. For the most part, he said things were "fine," although he let the mask slip once. "'You cannot imagine what I am doing here,"' he told his sister, sounding terrified. Then he clammed up.
Outwardly, his face became more masculine, sterner, his former wife said, while his eyes often got a frantic look that she recognized from their marital spats.
He did not talk about the dead much. Once, when his ex-wife asked about the commotion she could hear in the background, he said that the soldiers were drinking to commemorate fallen comrades. Another time he allowed that he had seen a lot of "cold" corpses, but few recently killed.
In December, after he suffered a light shrapnel wound in the shoulder, his calls became more frequent and more emotional. "It was like he burst," said Ms. Ovlashenka. He sent money constantly for Polina -- for clothes, a tree for the holidays, the circus and a ski trip.
When his ex-wife broached the topic of their reuniting, however, he backed off, and they postponed the discussion until he returned.
New Year's Eve was the last time his sister spoke to him. "He was very cheerful, upbeat, positive," she said. On Jan. 6, he called his former wife to ask if Polina liked her presents.
The last sign of life came on Jan. 9. When he could not talk, he would text an emoji like a smiley face.
Starting Jan. 10, there was a troubling silence. His sister dialed all the numbers he had called from, but nobody knew anything. Private Ovlashenko hugged her in a dream so vivid that she felt he had come to say goodbye.
On Jan. 14, the family learned from the Bataysk military recruitment office that he had been killed when a tank shell exploded in his trench near Makiivka, Ukraine.
They were told that his corpse had been shipped to nearby Rostov, to the main military morgue, but the military told them not to visit. The explosion had ripped his body apart, and they were having trouble identifying him. The family hoped that they had the wrong guy, but a fingerprint soon confirmed that it was him.
There was no open coffin at the funeral on Jan. 20. An honor guard fired off a salute in the muddy cemetery, and his father emitted a strangled cry, "Vanyuk!" -- his son's nickname -- as they buried him, according to 161.ru, a regional online newspaper.
Polina, 5, was not at the funeral, but she knew about the war. Her mother initially told her that her father was on a long business trip, but Polina figured out from the calls that he was at the front.
At school, they took up a small collection, and they always mentioned her father when they talked about war heroes. Polina misses him terribly, and often encourages her mother to find her a new daddy. "I tell her, 'Daughter, we don't have a store where we can get a new daddy,"' she said. "There will always be one daddy. He's in heaven."
In late February, the family held the traditional ceremony marking 40 days since his death. They skipped the normal ritual of leaving food on his grave, as the local priest said it would be better to donate it to needy families.
"He had chosen a peaceful life, a peaceful profession, a nonmilitary specialty," his sister said. "But his life completely disintegrated in a different way."
Photograph Pvt. Ivan Ovlashenko in a photo provided by his family. "I think that he just wanted a change of scenery," his former wife said. (A1); Ivan A. Ovlashenko, his former wife, Valeria Ovlashenka, and their child, Polina, in a family photo. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF FAMILY) (A9) This article appeared in print on page A1, A9.

Subject: Military service; Training; Military personnel

Business indexing term: Subject: Training

Location: Russia; Ukraine

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/06/world/europe/russia-soldier-casualties.html

Title: One Russian's Path From Quiet Life to Trenches:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 7, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2783549588

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/one-russians-path-quiet-life-trenches/docview/2783549588/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

He Heeded Russia’s Call to Enlist. Five Months Later, He Was Dead.

Author: MacFarquhar, Neil; Mazaeva, Milana

Publication info: MacFarquhar, Neil; Mazaeva, Milana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-heeded-russia-s-call-enlist-five-months-later/docview/2783485450/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Soon after he deployed to Ukraine last fall, Pvt. Ivan A. Ovlashenko filmed a short video of himself wearing camouflage fatigues and an olive green fleece hat, sitting in a woods flecked with yellowing leaves while fellow soldiers nearby readied an artillery round to fire toward the Ukrainian lines.
“I am recording everything right,” he said, grinning before shouting a warning, “Mortar!” The clip was meant to reassure relatives back in Russia that his sudden transition to frontline artilleryman was coming along just fine.
Until it wasn’t.
In September, President Vladimir Putin ordered the mobilization of 300,000 men to bolster sagging Russian defenses in Ukraine. At the time, the hordes of men who fled Russia to avoid conscription attracted the most attention. Yet hundreds of thousands of Russians like Ovlashenko — factory laborers and electricians, medical orderlies and basketball players, tractor drivers and school workers — went off to war.
The promise of payouts of $3,000 or $4,000 a month proved a huge incentive, along with appeals to machismo and the defense of the motherland. “What am I, not a man?” Ovlashenko told two women, his sister and his former wife. “I need to protect my country, my daughter.”
In lengthy interviews, the women said they were surprised how Ovlashenko, largely apolitical to this point, suddenly began parroting the government’s far-fetched talking point about the West planning to use Ukraine as a staging ground to attack Russia. If he did not fight in Ukraine, he said, he would have to battle the enemy on the streets of Bataysk, his hometown, a railroad hub just outside the southwestern city of Rostov-on-Don.
The mobilization shifted the calculus of the war. It was no longer some distant “military operation,” as the Kremlin still calls it, fought by contract soldiers, mercenaries and Ukrainian separatists press-ganged into service. Suddenly, ordinary Russians were thrust into the trenches.
Now, more than five months later, the tempo of dead and wounded returning to Russia is picking up, with zinc coffins arriving in places like Bataysk. It is a pattern repeating itself across Russia, even if the dead remain largely hidden.
“The numbers are secret,” said Max Trudolyubov, a Russian political analyst and newspaper columnist based in Vilnius, Lithuania. “The mobilized are from small towns, faraway places. The strategy is to spread the losses as thinly as possible across the country.”
Western intelligence officials estimate that 200,000 soldiers on the Russian side have been killed or wounded in the war. Of those, more than 16,000 have been confirmed dead in public sources, according to a project conducted jointly by Mediazona, an independent Russian news outlet, the BBC News Russian Service and volunteer researchers. While the true number is undoubtedly far higher, even that figure already exceeds the official death toll during the Soviet Union’s nine-year war in Afghanistan.
The dead include more than 1,366 new recruits, according to the project. Ovlashenko, 30, was one of them.
He grew up in Bataysk, a descendant of a long line of railroad workers, and was just 16 months younger than his sister, Valentina, with whom he was very close.
Valentina Strelkova, her married name, remembers her brother as a skinny, agile, fearless child — a potential circus acrobat. He remained devoted to his sister throughout his life, she said, dropping whatever he was doing whenever she needed him.
After he completed his compulsory military service, he went to work for Pepsi in merchandising.
Valeria Ovlashenka worked for Pepsi, too, in sales. When she spurned his advances, he gave a party for the entire staff, greeting her with a bouquet. He soon proposed, and the next day she discovered that she was pregnant. They married in March 2017, and their daughter, Polina, was born later that summer.
They quarreled frequently, not least over how to raise their daughter. Ovlashenka sought to replicate her own strict upbringing, while her husband made Polina the center of his life. He ironed her diapers and put her to sleep. He bought her toys and candy, took her to see the sea, and taught her to pick mushrooms in the deep northern forests. “It was always a holiday for the child,” she said.
They divorced after two years but neither dated anybody else, and Ovlashenka always hoped that they would reunite.
The mobilization summons on Sept. 26 came as a shock to his ex-wife and his sister, especially since Ovlashenko signed it immediately. “He was never interested or involved in political news,” said his sister.
He told his ex-wife of his decision to enlist when he was bringing their daughter back after a weekend, saying that he was leaving the next day. “He said it with such a smirk, as if he was leaving for a sanitarium,” she said, “I tried to talk him out of it.” She called the whole situation meaningless, arguing that he should stay home to raise Polina.
“I didn’t see my husband as a patriot,” she said. “I think that he just wanted a change of scenery.”
Ovlashenko’s father and sister drove to the training camp, more than an hour away, every day. They were given a list of necessities to rustle up — basically, everything except his flak jacket and helmet. They bought him warmer clothes, kneepads, a sleeping bag, a backpack and two balaclavas, among other equipment, spending more than $1,200. He was embarrassed, but grateful, and eventually the local regional government reimbursed them.
Ovlashenko was unexpectedly dispatched to Donetsk after just a week at the camp, his family said. During his earlier military service, he had been a driver. This time, he was assigned to an artillery unit. The newly mobilized soldiers received no training at the training center, he told them: “Everything I learned, I learned at the front.”
He never shared exactly where he was, but with each call the sound of big guns rumbled ever louder. For the most part he said things were “fine,” although he let the mask slip once. “‘You cannot imagine what I am doing here,’” he told his sister, sounding terrified. Then he clammed up.
Outwardly, his face became more masculine, sterner, his former wife said, while his eyes often got a frantic look that she recognized from their marital spats.
He did not talk about the dead much. Once, when his ex-wife asked about the commotion she could hear in the background, he said that the soldiers were drinking to commemorate fallen comrades. Another time he allowed that he had seen a lot of “cold” corpses, but few recently killed.
In December, after he suffered a light shrapnel wound in the shoulder, his calls became more frequent and more emotional. “It was like he burst,” said Ovlashenka. He sent money constantly for Polina — for clothes, a tree for the holidays, the circus and a ski trip.
When his ex-wife broached the topic of them reuniting, however, he backed off, and they postponed the discussion until he returned.
New Year’s Eve was the last time his sister spoke to him. “He was very cheerful, upbeat, positive,” she said. On Jan. 6, he called his former wife to ask if Polina liked her presents.
The last sign of life came on Jan. 9. When he could not talk, he would text an emoji like a smiley face.
Starting Jan. 10, there was a troubling silence. His sister dialed all the numbers he had called from but nobody knew anything. Ovlashenko hugged her in a dream so vivid that she felt he had come to say goodbye.
On Jan. 14, the family learned from the Bataysk military recruitment office that he had been killed when a tank shell exploded in his trench near Makiivka, Ukraine.
They were told that his corpse had been shipped to nearby Rostov, to the main military morgue, but the military told them not to visit. The explosion had ripped his body apart, and they were having trouble identifying him. The family hoped that they had the wrong guy, but a fingerprint soon confirmed that it was him.
There was no open coffin at the funeral on Jan. 20. An honor guard fired off a salute in the muddy cemetery, and his father emitted a strangled cry, “Vanyuk!” — his son’s nickname — as they buried him, according to 161.ru, a regional online newspaper.
Polina, 5, was not at the funeral, but she knew about the war. Her mother initially told her that her father was on a long business trip, but Polina figured out from the calls that he was at the front.
At school, they took up a small collection, and they always mentioned her father when they talked about war heroes. Polina misses him terribly, and often encourages her mother to find her a new daddy. “I tell her, ‘Daughter, we don’t have a store where we can get a new daddy,’” she said. “There will always be one daddy. He’s in heaven.”
In late February, the family held the traditional ceremony marking 40 days since his death. They skipped the normal ritual of leaving food on his grave, as the local priest said it would be better to donate it to needy families.
“He had chosen a peaceful life, a peaceful profession, a nonmilitary specialty,” his sister said. “But his life completely disintegrated in a different way.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Military service; Training; Military personnel

Business indexing term: Subject: Training

Location: Russia; Ukraine

Identifier / keyword: World; Putin, Vladimir V; Macfarquhar, Neil; British Broadcasting Corp; Mediazona (Web Site); Vilnius (Lithuania); Afghanistan; Donetsk (Ukraine); Lithuania; Makiivka (Ukraine); Pepsico Inc; Ussr (Former Soviet Union); Ukraine; Russia; Death And Dying; Pregnancy And Childbirth; Protective Clothing And Gear; Christmas; Men And Boys; Explosions (Accidental); Circuses; Newspapers; International Relations; Deaths (Fatalities); Movies; Cemeteries; Fines (Penalties); Funerals And Memorials; Russian Invasion Of Ukraine (2022); Defense And Military Forces; Politics And Government

Title: He Heeded Russia’s Call to Enlist. Five Months Later, He Was Dead.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 6, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-06 @ 18:35

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2783485450

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/he-heeded-russia-s-call-enlist-five-months-later/docview/2783485450/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

South Florida In the Fast Lane: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Wilhelm, Kent M

Publication info: Wilhelm, Kent M. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/south-florida-fast-lane/docview/2779829681/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Last summer, die-hards and newbies sweated it out in the hot sun for a brief glimpse of pure speed.
You can feel the energy rushing toward you, a telekinetic current through the sea of spectators. Carbon fiber hammerheads cut through the thick air, leaving elevated heart rates in their wake.
It doesn't matter if you're in the grandstands, general admission or the exclusive paddock; even the most expensive ticket won't get you a view of the whole circuit.
The Formula 1 Grand Prix is a touring spectacle that attracts hundreds of thousands of people from all over the planet for one weekend. Last year, the premier motorsport championship came to Miami for the first time in its 70-year existence, part of Formula 1's latest effort to tap into the lucrative American market.
The sport's thrill and glamour draw an audience from across the socioeconomic spectrum, though all would agree: The weekend costs a fortune. Single-day tickets can go for thousands of dollars, on top of travel and hotel prices that reflect the host city's sudden surge in population.
In attendance are grade schoolers and retirees, veteran fans from the bygone era of bellowing V12 engines and fresh converts from Netflix's "Drive to Survive." They cheer for country, driver, team or some mix of the three.
A mélange of colors signifies everyone's allegiances. Specks of Aston Martin emerald and Mercedes teal, worn by supporters of the mighty (Sir) Lewis Hamilton, dot the pointillistic legion. Those are mere accents to the two-tone wave of Red Bull navy blue and Dutch orange, for the reigning world champion, Max Verstappen.
They are all engulfed by Rosso Corsa red, a color that just looks fast, worn by the Tifosi, disciples of the national motor religion of Italy: Ferrari.
The sprawling circuit cultivates a music-festival atmosphere. When there is no action, you make your own. Many wander the vast landscape, paying a premium for officially licensed Charles Leclerc caps and Diet Pepsi as they seek the most valuable resource: shade.
The buzz of the turbo-hybrid engines crescendos with every gear shift as Daniel Ricciardo and Fernando Alonso dart down the track. Whether you're gazing at a Jumbotron, perching atop a sturdy branch or clinging to a chain-link fence, creativity and zeal are key to catching a glimpse.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT ROSSI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page AR44.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/20/arts/the-fast-and-the-curious-at-formula-1s-miami-grand-prix.html

Title: South Florida In the Fast Lane:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.44

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 26, 2023

column: Audience Report

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2779829681

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/south-florida-fast-lane/docview/2779829681/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Big Soda's Hard Turn: [Correction]

Author: Alcorn, Ted

Publication info: Alcorn, Ted. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-sodas-hard-turn/docview/2778162286/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: JOHNSON CITY, Tenn. -- On a quiet street corner, a sign marks the birthplace of a beverage behemoth: Here, in 1954, the Tri-City Beverage Corporation bottled its first case of Mountain Dew.
The soda was originally uncolored and lemon-lime flavored, and its inventors used it as a mixer with bourbon. "Mountain dew" is also a nickname for moonshine, which farmers sometimes processed from leftover crops. Labels on early soda bottles promised it was "specially blended in the traditional hillbilly style."
It wasn't until after PepsiCo bought the company in 1964 and eventually built a global youth-oriented brand, one marketed by extreme sports athletes, that the soft drink left its Appalachian roots behind.
In a way, Mountain Dew came full-circle last year when PepsiCo turned the brand toward a new alcoholic beverage: Hard Mtn Dew. At a One Stop Wine and Spirits frequented by students from East Tennessee State University, the new 24-ounce cans are prominently displayed. Although the brew bears little resemblance to its ancestor, its alcoholic content is "exactly what Mountain Dew is all about," Charles Gordon Jr., owner of Tri-City Beverage, said.
Hard Mtn Dew reflects a major change in the alcohol industry, which for the last century mainly produced drinks categorized as beer, wine or spirits. In recent years, those lines have blurred, and a fourth category of ready-to-drink beverages has emerged -- hard seltzers and other flavored malt beverages, wine coolers and canned cocktails. Although these products differ in primary ingredients and how the alcohol is processed, all typically are flavored and packaged for casual consumption.
This isn't the first time a new type of alcoholic beverage exploded in popularity but some earlier fads were associated with single products like Zima, Smirnoff Ice or Four Loko. "It's only really in the last three to four years that it's become a major category," Nadine Sarwat, a beverage analyst at Bernstein Research, said.
Sales of hard seltzers and ready-to-drink canned cocktails were valued at nearly $ 10 billion in 2021 by the Grand View Research firm, which expects them to grow by double digits in coming years. And in a major shift, PepsiCo and Coca-Cola have debuted alcoholic products in the U.S. market. In February, Monster Beverage, a maker of energy drinks, began rolling out its first line of alcoholic drinks called The Beast Unleashed.
But as alcohol-related deaths in America reach record highs, regulators and public health experts are voicing concern that the new class of drinks and the expanding industry could alter how people buy and drink alcohol. Some also expressed worry that the convenience of the new products could reverse the long-term decline in alcohol consumption by young people. And recent studies show that consuming even one alcoholic drink a day increases a person's risk of cancer and heart disease.
Coca-Cola and Monster Beverage declined repeated requests for comment, and PepsiCo referred questions about products bearing its brands to the independent companies that it had licensed to manufacture and market them.
Pamela Trangenstein, a scientist with the alcohol research group at the Public Health Institute in California, recently supervised a study at college football games. She described a sea of empty White Claw hard seltzer cans covering the floor of a student section at one stadium.
"The carbonation and sugar content can make it taste like you aren't drinking alcohol," she said.
A tantalizing opportunity
Americans' drinking habits have been shifting over time. The popular practice of avoiding calories and carbs has been driving down beer's market share for years, said Bonnie Herzog, a Goldman Sachs managing director who analyzes the beverage industry. At the same time, alcohol companies are vying to win back people under 30, who are consuming less alcohol than previous generations at that age. And the coronavirus pandemic supercharged sales of portable products as consumers sought beverages they could drink at home.
"Health and wellness, variety, convenience -- that's the appeal," Ms. Herzog said.
Hard Mtn Dew exemplifies these trends. It is sugar- and caffeine-free, and taps into consumers' connection to a brand they've known for years. Although the new product is 5 percent alcohol by volume, a 24-ounce can contains the equivalent of two standard drinks. Fans who got an early taste seemed to like it. "I drank Hard Mountain Dew and felt like I was staring at God," an online reviewer wrote.
Major alcohol producers like Anheuser-Busch InBev and Diageo have invested heavily in this category, but the moment has also presented traditional soda makers with a tantalizing new market, Ms. Herzog said. In addition, manufacturers and distributors make a higher profit per case of alcoholic beverages than for nonalcoholic drinks, according to Kevin Asato, a beverage industry consultant.
In 2018, Coca-Cola dipped a toe in the market when it introduced Lemon-Dou in Japan, the first hard drink among its brands since the 1980s. In 2020, the company paired with Molson Coors Brewing Co. to make Topo Chico Hard Seltzers, and last year, Coca-Cola entered into agreements to produce Fresca Mixed cocktails, Simply Spiked Lemonade and a canned Jack & Coke.
On an earnings call on Feb. 14, James Quincey, chief executive of Coca-Cola, cited its "early alcohol experiments" like Jack & Coke, scheduled for sale in California at the end of next month, as a way for the company to be "a total beverage company -- everywhere."
By licensing its soft drink brands to established alcohol makers for sale through existing distributors, Coca-Cola kept within the lanes of the regulatory firewalls that separate alcohol producers, distributors and retailers. This three-tier system has characterized the U.S. alcohol industry since the repeal of Prohibition and is intended to prevent a single company from vertically integrating and suppressing its competitors.
PepsiCo, in contrast, has attached fewer of its brands to new alcoholic drinks -- just Hard Mtn Dew and Lipton Hard Iced Tea, so far -- but has shown greater willingness to disrupt the status quo.
The company established a wholly owned subsidiary, Blue Cloud Distribution, to keep more control over sales and marketing, and a greater share of the profits. The venture involved hiring more than 250 employees, obtaining individual state licenses to distribute alcohol and a fleet of trucks.
To comply with the three-tier system, PepsiCo licensed Mountain Dew's brand to the Boston Beer Co. and provided it with Mountain Dew flavoring. That way, PepsiCo is independent from production and can instead control distribution.
Not all states have approved of the arrangement. Last spring, regulators in Kentucky and Georgia denied Blue Cloud distributor licenses, ruling that Blue Cloud had blurred the lines between manufacturer and distributor. Indiana regulators denied Blue Cloud a comparable license last month.
Jeff Birnbaum, a spokesman for Blue Cloud, pointed out that Hard Mtn Dew and Lipton Hard Iced Tea are both manufactured and marketed by separate companies, in accordance with the three-tier system.
Local beer distributors have also tried to block the new competition. In October, beer wholesalers in Nevada and Virginia filed complaints with regulators asking them to revoke Blue Cloud's licenses.
And in December, independent beer distributors appealed to federal regulators, calling on the Treasury Department's alcohol and tobacco tax bureau to investigate whether retailers were giving soft drink companies more favorable treatment of their alcoholic products. Soda companies routinely pay retailers so-called slotting fees for prominent placement of their products, but doing so for alcoholic beverages would violate the three-tier system, the distributors argued.
They also provided photographs of what they called "inappropriate placement" of Hard Mtn Dew in stores, shown next to children's juice boxes and toy cars.
Mr. Birnbaum, a spokesman for Blue Cloud, said the company did not dictate to retailers how to display its drinks, but urged them to avoid confusing alcoholic and nonalcoholic products and to correct improper placement. He also noted Hard Mtn Dew was priced and packaged in line with other malt-based ready-to-drink alcohol beverages, and "boldly says on its label that it is for individuals 21 and older."
Mary Ryan, administrator of the alcohol tax and trade bureau, said her office had not received evidence of any violations. The bureau is accepting public comments until June 7 on whether it should revise regulations that assess the independence of retailers, among others.
Ms. Sarwat, the beverage analyst, expressed doubt that the tactics employed by Blue Cloud and PepsiCo would lead to abandoning the three-tier regulatory system -- but she didn't dismiss their influence.
"Any time Pepsi or Coke do anything, given how deep their pockets are, it is one to watch closely," she said.
The effects on health
Excess drinking already kills more than 140,000 Americans each year, according to the latest estimates, far surpassing drug overdoses or firearm deaths.
Alcohol experts take heart at the growing ranks of openly "sober-curious" young people, and beverage companies are trying to tap that group with a profusion of new nonalcoholic products, including zero-proof wines and nonalcoholic aperitivos. But some public health experts have expressed concerns that the widening variety of alcoholic drinks could reverse those trends.
The long-term effects on drinking habits will not be known for years, according to Matt Rossheim, an associate professor at the University of North Texas Health Science Center. "In public health, it's constantly this game of Whac-A-Mole, as industry is just so quick to innovate and launch things, and then it takes us years and years to figure out what happened," he said.
Of the few government surveys measuring drinking behaviors, none collect detailed data on the new alcoholic beverages, Marissa Esser, who leads the alcohol program at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said.
The Monitoring the Future survey, which measures substance use among eighth-, 10th- and 12th-grade U.S. students, will include questions about hard seltzers and ready-to-drink cocktails for the first time this fall.
Because these types of drinks tend to be inexpensive, packaged in single-serve containers and sold in places like gas stations and convenience stores, they are likely to appeal to young people, Mr. Rossheim suggested.
Industry executives acknowledged the marketing benefit that springboards off familiar brands. On an earnings call in November, Rodney Sacks, the chief executive of Monster Beverage, pointed out that the new line's products featured "mean green," "white haze," "peach perfect" and "scary berries" -- all "based on Monster's well known and popular flavor profiles."
And women are a coveted consumer. Katherine Keyes, a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University, said the push into hard sodas appeared to target the female drinker, whose alcohol intake has been catching up to men's in recent years. "A low-calorie, flavored alcohol beverage has been their tried-and-true approach to attracting a female market," she said.
Still, these options should not be marketed as healthy alternatives, experts said.
"The harms from alcohol don't mainly come from calories," Bill Kerr, a senior scientist at the Public Health Institute's alcohol research program, said. "They come from the alcohol."
Photograph Mountain Dew was originally uncolored and lemon-lime flavored, used as a mixer with bourbon. "Mountain dew" is also a nickname for moonshine. (D1); Recognition of Mountain Dew's birthplace in Johnson City, Tenn., top. Above, Charles Gordon Jr., owner of Tri-City Beverage, which still makes Dr. Enuf soda but which sold Mountain Dew to PepsiCo in 1964. Above right, an artifact from the Mountain Dew Collection of the Reece Museum of East Tennessee State University. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE BELLEME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) This article appeared in print on page D1, D4.

Subject: Drug overdose; Trends; Beverage industry; Public health; Licenses; Alcohol; Sales; Beer; Liquor industry; Alcoholic beverages; Product development; Soft drinks; Breweries

Business indexing term: Subject: Beverage industry Sales Liquor industry Alcoholic beverages Product development Breweries

Location: United States--US; California

Company / organization: Name: PepsiCo Inc; NAICS: 312111

Title: Big Soda's Hard Turn:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: D.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 21, 2023

Section: D

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2778162286

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/big-sodas-hard-turn/docview/2778162286/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 21, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-24

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Dictator's Shrine Becomes a Temple of Hope for the Future: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Higgins, Andrew

Publication info: Higgins, Andrew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dictators-shrine-becomes-temple-hope-future/docview/2777961376/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: An enormous pyramid was long a reminder of a brutal regime and decades of disappointments. Now, it's a symbol of a city aspiring to be the high-tech "Tel Aviv of the Balkans."
TIRANA, Albania -- Built in the 1980s to commemorate a dead tyrant in Pharaonic style, the concrete and glass pyramid in the center of Albania's capital, Tirana, was falling apart by the time engineers and construction workers arrived to rescue it.
The windows were broken. Homeless people were sleeping in its cavernous hall, which was daubed with graffiti and stinking of urine. Empty bottles and syringes littered the floor, which was covered in polished marble when the pyramid -- a shrine to Albania's late Communist dictator, Enver Hoxha -- first opened in 1988, but had since been stripped bare by vandals and thieves.
"The place was a wreck," Genci Golemi, the site engineer, recalled of his first visit. "Everything had been stolen."
Now, after two years of reconstruction work, the building is a glistening temple to Albania's ambitious hopes for the future.
For Tirana's mayor, Erion Veliaj, the $ 22 million makeover of the pyramid points to how he imagines the capital: as "the Tel Aviv of the Balkans," a high-tech hub offering jobs and promise to a country that was so impoverished and cut off from the modern world under Mr. Hoxha, who died in 1985, that typewriters and color TVs were banned.
"Instead of being a blast from the past, it will be blast off into the future," the mayor said of the pyramid, brushing aside the fact that Albania is still one of Europe's poorest countries and better known as a source of economic migrants than software engineers.
Still, after decades of failed grand plans for the pyramid, hope is running high. It is being repurposed as a space for classrooms, cafes and tech company offices, and is scheduled to open to the public later this year.
"Hoxha will be rolling in his grave to see his memorial turned into a celebration of capitalism, jobs and the future," Mr. Veliaj said, standing atop the pyramid, which is about 70 feet tall, near a hole in the roof that used to be filled with a giant red star made of glass. The outline of the star is still visible in the concrete that housed it, a ghostly reminder of Albania's four decades under brutal Communist rule.
Many countries on Europe's formerly Communist eastern fringe have wrestled with the question of what to do with massive structures left over from a past most people would like to forget.
Winy Maas, the principal architect of MVRDV, a Dutch firm that led the redesign of the Tirana pyramid, said that dealing with structures erected to celebrate tyranny has always involved "difficult decisions" but added that no matter how baleful a building's beginnings, demolition is "rarely a good option."
He said he had been inspired by the reconstruction of the Reichstag in Berlin by the British architect Norman Foster, who added a glass dome to a building long associated with Germany's Nazi past and turned it into a light-filled symbol of the country's modern democracy.
Albania was the last nation in Europe to ditch Communism, doing so in 1991 with a frenzy of attacks on statues of Mr. Hoxha, his memorial hall and everything he stood for.
But hopes of a new era of democratic prosperity quickly turned into yet more upheaval when a network of financial Ponzi schemes collapsed in 1997, setting off violent nationwide protests that pushed the country toward civil war.
Tempers eventually calmed, opening the way for Albania to apply to join the European Union in 2009 and win candidate status in 2014 for future entry to the bloc, which it has yet to join.
Throughout this turbulent journey, the Hoxha pyramid loomed over Tirana, slowly decaying and seemingly taunting each new Albanian government with its memories of a Stalinist system that few wanted to bring back but whose replacement had fed so much disappointment.
"The ghost of Hoxha was everywhere and terrifying for everyone," recalled Frrok Cupi, a journalist who was appointed in 1991 to manage the pyramid, which was supposed to become a cultural center.
One of his first and most daunting tasks, Mr. Cupi said, was to somehow get rid of a 22-ton marble statue of the dictator in the main hall. Its removal, he believed, offered the only hope of saving the pyramid from angry anti-Communist mobs that wanted to destroy the whole building.
The statue was so big and heavy that moving it risked breaking the floor and bringing down the pyramid. The Italian Embassy proposed hoisting the statue out through the roof by helicopter. Others suggested cutting it to pieces with a special saw. In the end, Llesh Biba, a young theater director working as a carpenter at the pyramid, set upon Hoxha with a sledgehammer, bashing away with gusto at his head and body.
"It felt great to hit Hoxha," Mr. Biba, now a sculptor, recalled in an interview in his Tirana studio. "Nobody else dared. They were all worried about saving their own skins." After finishing his work, however, Mr. Biba checked into a hospital suffering serious lung problems from breathing in shards of marble and dust.
Mr. Biba's health crisis established what became a long pattern of misfortune associated with a building that "seemed cursed," according to Martin Mata, the co-head of the Albanian-American Investment Fund, which helped finance the reconstruction work.
With no money to keep the pyramid operating as a cultural center, the authorities turned it into a rental property.
Albania's first nightclub took space there in the early 1990s. The United States aid agency USAID, a television station and Pepsi moved into office space in the basement, followed by NATO, which set up an office there during the 1999 war in neighboring Kosovo.
Over the years, the pyramid started falling apart, taken over by squatters and swarming with young people who used its sloping concrete outer walls as slides. Bold plans to give the structure a new purpose came and went, including a failed project promoted by an Albanian former prime minister, Sali Berisha, to turn the pyramid into a new national theater.
By 2010, the pyramid had become such an embarrassing symbol of failure that legislators demanded it be torn down and asked Austrian architects to come up with a plan to build a new Parliament building on its land. That effort, too, fizzled.
The current renovation finally broke the streak of failure.
Driving the current effort is Tirana's mayor, Mr. Veliaj, a close political ally of Albania's prime minister for the past decade, Edi Rama, a former artist who has won plaudits, even from some political rivals, for shaking off the country's reputation for chaos.
The mayor, 43, recalled visiting the pyramid as a schoolboy soon after it opened in 1988 as a lugubrious memorial to Mr. Hoxha. "It was like going to a scary funeral," he said, describing how a floodlit red star in the roof "looked down on us all, like the eye of Big Brother."
Mr. Maas, the architect, said that in the renovation, he tried to "overcome the past, not destroy it" by preserving the pyramid's basic structure while opening it up more to sunlight and modernizing the interior to purge it of associations with Albania's grim past.
In a concession to the happy memories many Tirana residents have of sliding down the pyramid's slopes, the new design includes a small area for sliding. Most of the outer walls, however, are now covered with steps so that visitors can walk to the top. There is also an elevator.
Not everyone likes the new design. Mr. Biba, who demolished Mr. Hoxha's marble statue more than 30 years ago, scorned the reconstructed pyramid as a flashy public relations stunt by the prime minister.
But that is a minority view. Mr. Cupi, who, after his cultural center flopped, supported demands that the building be torn down, now praises the redesign as a sign that Albania can overcome its Communist ghosts and post-Communist demons.
"We all wanted to be part of the West but did not really know what this meant," he said. "The pyramid has now been totally transformed, and that gives me hope for this country."
Fatjona Mejdini contributed reporting.
Photograph A pyramid in Tirana, Albania's capital, opened in 1988 as a memorial to the dictator Enver Hoxha. It fell into disrepair during post-Communist tumult.; Renovation work last month at the building, whose marble floors had been stripped by thieves. It is to hold classrooms, cafes and tech company offices.; "It felt great to hit Hoxha," said Llesh Biba, who smashed a statue of the leader during a 1990s effort to repurpose the pyramid. "Nobody else dared."; ERION VELIAJ, mayor of Tirana (below, on the pyramid's roof), referring to the Communist autocrat Enver Hoxha. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A4.

Subject: Reconstruction period-US; Cultural centers; Theater directors & producers; Marble; Homeless people; Employment; Communism; Renovation & restoration; Architecture; Architects; Prime ministers; High tech industries; Engineers

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment Architecture Architects High tech industries

Location: Israel; Albania; Tel Aviv Israel; Europe

People: Hoxha, Enver

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/19/world/europe/tirana-albania-hoxha-pyramid.html

Title: A Dictator's Shrine Becomes a Temple of Hope for the Future:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 20, 2023

column: Albania Dispatch

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2777961376

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/dictators-shrine-becomes-temple-hope-future/docview/2777961376/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Despised Dictator’s ‘Scary’ Shrine Becomes a Bet on Albania’s Future

Author: Higgins, Andrew

Publication info: Higgins, Andrew. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/despised-dictator-s-scary-shrine-becomes-bet-on/docview/2777846578/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TIRANA, Albania — Built in the 1980s to commemorate a dead tyrant in Pharaonic style, the concrete and glass pyramid in the center of Albania’s capital, Tirana, was falling apart by the time engineers and construction workers arrived to rescue it.
The windows were broken. Homeless people were sleeping in its cavernous hall, which was daubed with graffiti and stinking of urine. Empty bottles and syringes littered the floor, which was covered in polished marble when the pyramid — a shrine to Albania’s late communist dictator, Enver Hoxha — first opened in 1988, but had since been stripped bare by vandals and thieves.
“The place was a wreck,” Genci Golemi, the site engineer, recalled of his first visit. “Everything had been stolen.”
Now, after two years of reconstruction work, the building is a glistening temple to Albania’s ambitious hopes for the future.
For Tirana’s mayor, Erion Veliaj, the $22 million makeover of the pyramid points to how he imagines the capital — as “the Tel Aviv of the Balkans,” a high-tech hub offering jobs and promise to a country that was so impoverished and cut off from the modern world under Hoxha, who died in 1985, that typewriters and color TVs were banned.
“Instead of being a blast from the past, it will be blast off into the future,” the mayor said of the pyramid, brushing aside the fact that Albania is still one of Europe’s poorest countries and better known as a source of economic migrants than software engineers.
Still, after decades of failed grand plans for the pyramid, hope is running high. It is being repurposed as a space for classrooms, cafes and tech company offices, and is scheduled to open to the public later this year.
“Hoxha will be rolling in his grave to see his memorial turned into a celebration of capitalism, jobs and the future,” Veliaj said, standing atop the pyramid, which is about 70 feet tall, near a hole in the roof that used to be filled with a giant red star made of glass. The outline of the star is still visible in the concrete that housed it, a ghostly reminder of Albania’s four decades under brutal communist rule.
Many countries on Europe’s formerly communist eastern fringe have wrestled with the question of what to do with massive structures left over from a past most people would like to forget.
Winy Maas, the principal architect of MVRDV, a Dutch firm that led the redesign of the Tirana pyramid, said that dealing with structures erected to celebrate tyranny has always involved “difficult decisions” but added that no matter how baleful a building’s beginnings, demolition is “rarely a good option.”
He said he had been inspired by the reconstruction of the Reichstag in Berlin by British architect Norman Foster, who added a glass dome to a building long associated with Germany’s Nazi past and turned it into a light-filled symbol of the country’s modern democracy.
Albania was the last country in Europe to ditch communism, doing so in 1991 with a frenzy of attacks on statues of Hoxha, his memorial hall and everything he stood for.
But hopes of a new era of democratic prosperity quickly turned into yet more upheaval when a network of financial Ponzi schemes collapsed in 1997, setting off violent nationwide protests that pushed the country toward civil war.
Tempers eventually calmed, opening the way for Albania to apply to join the European Union in 2009, and win candidate status in 2014 for future entry to the bloc, which it has yet to join.
Throughout this turbulent journey, the Hoxha pyramid loomed over Tirana, slowly decaying and seemingly taunting each new Albanian government with its memories of a Stalinist system that few wanted to bring back but whose replacement had fed so much disappointment.
“The ghost of Hoxha was everywhere and terrifying for everyone,” recalled Frrok Cupi, a journalist who was appointed in 1991 to manage the pyramid, which was supposed to become a cultural center.
One of his first and most daunting tasks, Cupi said, was to somehow get rid of a 22-ton marble statue of the late dictator in the main hall. Its removal, he believed, offered the only hope of saving the pyramid from angry anti-communist mobs that wanted to destroy the whole building.
The statue was so big and heavy that moving it risked breaking the floor and bringing down the pyramid. The Italian Embassy proposed hoisting the statue out through the roof by helicopter. Others suggested cutting it to pieces with a special saw. In the end, Llesh Biba, a young theater director working as a carpenter at the pyramid, set upon Hoxha with a sledgehammer, bashing away with gusto at his head and body.
“It felt great to hit Hoxha,” Biba, now a sculptor, recalled in an interview in his Tirana studio. “Nobody else dared. They were all worried about saving their own skins.” After finishing his work, however, Biba checked into a hospital suffering serious lung problems from breathing in shards of marble and dust.
Biba’s health crisis established what became a long pattern of misfortune associated with a building that “seemed cursed,” according to Martin Mata, the co-head of the Albanian-American Investment Fund, which helped finance the reconstruction work.
With no money to keep the pyramid operating as a cultural center, authorities turned it into a rental property.
Albania’s first nightclub took space there in the early 1990s. The United States aid agency, USAID, a television station and Pepsi moved into office space in the basement, followed by NATO, which set up an office there during the 1999 war in neighboring Kosovo.
Over the years, the pyramid started falling apart, taken over by squatters and swarming with young people who used its sloping concrete outer walls as slides. Bold plans to give the structure a new purpose came and went, including a failed project promoted by Albania’s former prime minister, Sali Berisha, to turn the pyramid into a new national theater.
By 2010, the pyramid had become such an embarrassing symbol of failure that legislators demanded it be torn down and asked Austrian architects to come up with a plan to build a new parliament building on its land. That effort, too, fizzled.
The current renovation finally broke the streak of failure.
Driving the current effort is Tirana’s mayor, Veliaj, a close political ally of Albania’s prime minister for the past decade, Edi Rama, a former artist who has won plaudits, even from some political rivals, for shaking off the country’s reputation for chaos.
The mayor, 43, recalled visiting the pyramid as a schoolboy soon after it opened in 1988 as a lugubrious memorial to Hoxha. “It was like going to a scary funeral,” he said, describing how a floodlit red star in the roof “looked down on us all like the eye of Big Brother.”
Maas, the architect, said that in the renovation, he tried to “overcome the past, not destroy it” by preserving the pyramid’s basic structure while opening it up more to sunlight and modernizing the interior to purge it of associations with Albania’s grim past.
In a concession to the happy memories many Tirana residents have of sliding down the pyramid’s slopes, the new design includes a small area for sliding. Most of the outer walls, however, are now covered with steps so that visitors can walk to the top. There is also an elevator.
Not everyone likes the new design. Biba, who demolished Hoxha’s marble statue more than 30 years ago, scorned the reconstructed pyramid as a flashy public relations stunt by the prime minister.
But that is a minority view. Cupi, who, after his cultural center flopped, supported demands that the building be torn down, now praises the redesign as a sign that Albania can overcome its communist ghosts and post-communist demons.
“We all wanted to be part of the West but did not really know what this meant,” he said, “The pyramid has now been totally transformed and that gives me hope for this country.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Reconstruction period-US; Cultural centers; Theater directors & producers; Marble; Homeless people; Employment; Renovation & restoration; Communism; Architecture; Architects; Prime ministers; Engineers

Business indexing term: Subject: Employment Architecture Architects

Location: New York; United States--US; Israel; Albania; Tel Aviv Israel; Europe

People: Hoxha, Enver

Identifier / keyword: World; Higgins, Andrew; Pepsico Inc; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; European Union; Balkan States; Kosovo; Germany; Tel Aviv (Israel); United States; Austria; Great Britain; Netherlands; Hoxha, Enver; Berlin (Germany); Rama, Edi; United States Agency For International Development; Europe; Tirana (Albania); Albania; Computers And The Internet; Real Estate (Commercial); Respiratory Diseases; Relocation Of Business; Squatters; Local Government; Ponzi And Pyr amid Schemes; Poverty; Engineering And Engineers; Robberies And Thefts; Art; Demolition; Concrete; Theater; Hiring And Promotion; Architecture; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Albanian Americans; Finances; Labor And Jobs; Accidents And Safety; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Deaths (Fatalities); Television; International Relations; Monuments And Memorials (Structures); Egyptian Civilization; Elections

Title: Despised Dictator’s ‘Scary’ Shrine Becomes a Bet on Albania’s Future

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 19, 2023

Dateline: 2023-02-19 @ 17:54

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2777846578

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/despised-dictator-s-scary-shrine-becomes-bet-on/docview/2777846578/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Yes, There's a Game Today: [Sports Desk]

Author: Shpigel, Ben

Publication info: Shpigel, Ben. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yes-theres-game-today/docview/2775347493/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When is the kickoff? What time will Rihanna perform? Who are the players to watch? Cheesesteak or barbecue? We have answers.
What time is the Super Bowl?
The official kickoff time is listed as 6:30 p.m. Eastern time on Sunday, although the bonanza of pregame coverage begins at 1 p.m. on Fox and several eternities earlier in other corners of sports television.
The scheduled kickoff time translates to 5:30 p.m. Central time, 4:30 p.m. Mountain time, 3:30 p.m. Pacific time and 1:30 p.m. Hawaii time.
Where is the Super Bowl?
The game will be played at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Ariz., northwest of downtown Phoenix. It looks like a spaceship in the middle of the desert and usually hosts Arizona Cardinals games.
The weather forecast for the Phoenix area -- partly cloudy on Sunday -- doesn't really matter much. Even if a haboob strikes, the stadium's roof can be closed.
What channel is the game on, and how can I stream it?
The game will be broadcast on Fox in English and Fox Deportes in Spanish. Streaming is available on the Fox Sports app, the Fox Sports website and Fubo. Kevin Burkhardt and Greg Olsen, a former N.F.L. tight end, will provide the commentary.
You can -- and you should! -- also follow along with New York Times reporters as we discuss the game, the ads and the halftime show.
Among the broadcasters worldwide are Seven Network (Australia), CTV (Canada), L'Équipe (France), DAZN (Germany), A1 Max (Bulgaria) and ITV1 (Britain).
Who is playing?
The Kansas City Chiefs, playing in their third Super Bowl in four seasons, went 14-3 in the regular season and slipped past the Cincinnati Bengals to win the A.F.C. championship. The Philadelphia Eagles, who also went 14-3, advanced to their second Super Bowl in six seasons by walloping the San Francisco 49ers in the N.F.C. championship game.
This is the first time in five years that the top seeds from both conferences have reached the Super Bowl.
The winner will have won more games at State Farm Stadium this season (two) than its main tenant, the Arizona Cardinals (one).
Who will perform at the Super Bowl halftime show?
The N.F.L. found its headliner in a hopeless place. Rihanna had rebuffed past invitations in support of Colin Kaepernick, the former 49ers quarterback who accused the league of blackballing him because he protested police brutality and racial injustice by kneeling during the national anthem.
Rihanna is scheduled to perform publicly for the first time since the 2018 Grammy Awards. Her presence is quite the coup for Apple Music, which has replaced Pepsi as the primary sponsor of the halftime show.
What time is the halftime show?
It depends on how long the first half of the game takes, but probably around 8 p.m. Eastern. And yes, we fully understand that the concert is the main event for plenty of people.
How much are tickets?
It's not polite to talk about money! Haven't we taught you anything?
Come on. How much?
OK. A lot of money. Like, a lot. Like, thousands of dollars. One ticket marketplace, Vivid Seats, is listing its cheapest seats at $ 3,863.
Has either team won a Super Bowl?
Kansas City won its first Super Bowl in 1970 and its second in 2020, when quarterback Patrick Mahomes became our benevolent overlord. The team has also lost two Super Bowls, the first one in 1967 and another in 2021.
Philadelphia has also lost in the Super Bowl twice, in 1981 and 2005. It won its lone Super Bowl in 2018, inspiring a victory parade that lasted approximately nine weeks and four days.
Will history be made?
We're glad you asked. This is the first Super Bowl to feature two Black starting quarterbacks, a celebratory -- and overdue -- moment for a league that for decades teemed with inequities. Perceived in the past as lacking the leadership qualities or intelligence to excel at the position, Black football players were often discouraged from playing quarterback, and it took until the 22nd Super Bowl for a Black quarterback, Doug Williams of Washington, to start a Super Bowl and win.
But Patrick Mahomes and Jalen Hurts -- along with Baltimore's Lamar Jackson, Arizona's Kyler Murray, Chicago's Justin Fields and Denver's Russell Wilson, who won a Super Bowl with Seattle -- are among the quarterbacks, Black or otherwise, redefining how the position is played in 2023.
What should I know about Jalen Hurts?
Hurts is still rehabilitating a sprained right shoulder, sustained on Dec. 18, that cost him two regular-season games. But he has developed, in his second full season as Philadelphia's starter, into the team's franchise quarterback. Elusive and powerful, Hurts demands defenses account for his mobility, and he has blossomed as a pocket passer.
This season, he joined Cam Newton and Kyler Murray as the only players ever to have thrown for 3,700 yards and 20 touchdowns and also run for 10 scores. Had he stayed healthy for all 17 regular-season games, Hurts very well might have been selected as the league's most valuable player. Instead, he finished second in the balloting, with the honor going to....
Patrick Mahomes, again?
Yeah. Mahomes was named the league's most valuable player on Thursday night, becoming the first Black quarterback to win that prize twice.
Mahomes, just 27 and set to play in his third Super Bowl, is already one of the greatest quarterbacks ever. The dude is a cheat code. Even on a sprained ankle, like in Kansas City's two playoff games, he routinely makes history when he touches the football. And will do so again on Sunday.
Does Kansas City have other good players?
Nope.
Just kidding! It has loads of them, but especially tight end Travis Kelce and the defensive linemen Chris Jones and Frank Clark. They crush souls and dreams on a regular basis.
Patrick Mahomes probably has inspired the most fan tattoos, though.
How about Philadelphia?
The Eagles' roster is stacked, with receivers A.J. Brown and DeVonta Smith, running back Miles Sanders, edge rusher Haason Reddick, right tackle Lane Johnson and the cornerbacks James Bradberry and Darius Slay.
But the team's emotional compass is its beer-chugging, Christmas-song-crooning All-Pro center Jason Kelce, who -- clad in a bedazzled costume worn by the city's famed Mummers -- commandeered the podium at the Eagles' 2018 Super Bowl victory parade and warbled, "We're from Philly, [expletive] Philly. No one likes us, we don't care." He might be Philadelphia's most beloved athlete.
Kelce, Kelce, Kelce ... that name sounds familiar.
Yes, Jason's younger brother, Travis, plays for Kansas City. They are the first brothers to play against each other in the Super Bowl. But this is probably the first you're hearing about that, right?
Well, in case you've missed the brother vs. brother stories in every news outlet, Travis is one of the best tight ends of this generation, as crafty a receiver as he is prolific. Plus, he fights for his right to party. In the gleeful aftermath of defeating the Bengals in the A.F.C. title game, he called Mayor Aftab Pureval of Cincinnati a jabroni (he deserved it). And he once had his own dating show, "Catching Kelce," in which he dated women from all 50 states.
I'm feeling lucky. How can I bet on the Super Bowl?
If you live in one of the 36 states (or the District of Columbia) where betting on games is legal and underway, you've probably seen many ads for online sports books. (That's thanks, in part, to the N.F.L. itself, which has had a tricky relationship with sports betting.) Of course, the wide availability of sports betting comes with significant risks.
If you are going to bet, the Eagles are a 1.5-point favorite. Here's our pick against the spread.
You can also set up a box pool -- also known as squares -- and then rue the money you flushed away by drawing a 2 and a 2. If you want to know just how lousy your chances are on winning at squares, here's a site that looks at the probability of each number combination coming up (0 and 7 is your best spot, at about 3.5 percent -- have fun with all that).
Who will be coaching in the Super Bowl?
Two men who never played a down in the N.F.L.
Andy Reid joined Kansas City in 2013, four days after his 14-year tenure ended in -- wait for it -- Philadelphia. Nick Sirianni, in his second season with the Eagles, spent the first four years of his N.F.L. coaching career as an assistant in Kansas City but then wasn't retained by -- wait for it -- Andy Reid.
Awk-ward.
What should we be watching for in the game on Sunday?
So very much:
Will Haason Reddick, Brandon Graham, Josh Sweat and the rest of Philadelphia's ferocious defensive front be able to pressure Patrick Mahomes and contain him in the pocket? Where will Kansas City's Chris Jones, probing for mismatches, line up? How will the Eagles defend Travis Kelce over the middle?
Can Kansas City's cornerbacks hold up in coverage against A.J. Brown and DeVonta Smith on the outside? Will the Eagles' diversified running game torment Kansas City?
Will Mahomes account for eleventy touchdowns?
Will league officials grease any and all poles and columns at State Farm Stadium to deter rowdy Eagles fans from scaling them?
What's this I hear about Eagles fans?
For the uninitiated, Philadelphia's professional football team has a rather passionate following, one that tends to celebrate momentous sporting achievements by climbing objects that shouldn't be climbed. The police tend to slather street poles and the like with Crisco (or similar substances) as a deterrent. Note: It doesn't work.
Who has the best cheesesteak in Philly?
Team Dalessandro's and Team Woodrow's here.
And the best BBQ in K.C.?
Love you, Q39. You too, Joe's.
What about the best recipes for food I can serve at my Super Bowl party?
What am I, NYT Cooking?
Back to the important stuff: Who's singing the national anthem?
The honor of singing "The Star-Spangled Banner" goes to the country star Chris Stapleton. "America the Beautiful" will be performed by the R&B singer Babyface.
How much did Super Bowl ads cost this year?
Several companies, according to Variety, paid more than $ 7 million for a 30-second spot. That's at least $ 233,333 per second. Or, roughly, the cost of three seats in Section 455 at State Farm Stadium.
What's with the Roman numerals?
The N.F.L. says that Super Bowls are numbered (this is No. 57) because the game is played in the calendar year after the regular season, and "Super Bowl 2023" could be ambiguous. Also, Roman numerals look cool, and no one matriculated the ball downfield better than Cicero.
Is Tom Brady playing?
He just retired (again), so no, he won't be playing. But don't worry, he'll still win.
Photograph Kansas City and the Eagles will square off on Sunday for the Vince Lombardi Trophy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER CASEY/GETTY IMAGES); Patrick Mahomes will be playing in his third Super Bowl in the last four seasons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY BIGGERSTAFF/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS); A Kansas City fan receiving an impressive tattoo of Mahomes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SHPIGEL/THE NEW YORK TIMES); Fans in Philadelphia celebrated for a really long time after the Eagles' Super Bowl victory in 2018. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE GUSTAFSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Jalen Hurts has emerged as a star in his second full season as Philadelphia's starter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) This article appeared in print on page A27.

Subject: Professional football; Gambling

Location: United States--US; Kansas City Missouri; Arizona

People: Murray, Kyler; Hurts, Jalen; Mahomes, Patrick; Reid, Andy

Company / organization: Name: Arizona Cardinals; NAICS: 711211; Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/10/sports/its-time-to-answer-your-questions-about-super-bowl-lvii.html

Title: Yes, There's a Game Today:   [Sports Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.27

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347493

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/yes-theres-game-today/docview/2775347493/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Senators Raise Breaking Up Live Nation 'Monopoly,' After Bungled Sale of Taylor Swift Tickets: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Sisario, Ben; Stevens, Matt

Publication info: Sisario, Ben; Stevens, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/senators-raise-breaking-up-live-nation-monopoly/docview/2768944210/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Judiciary Committee, responding to the bungled sale of Taylor Swift concert tickets, heard the company apologize and its critics trace the problem to the industry's lack of competition.
Live Nation Entertainment, the concert industry giant that owns Ticketmaster, came under withering attack during a Senate Judiciary hearing on Tuesday, with committee members from both parties criticizing it for the botched sale of tickets to Taylor Swift's latest tour and calling the company a monopoly that hinders competition and harms consumers.
Over nearly three hours, senators pilloried a top Live Nation executive, Joe Berchtold, over the handling of Ms. Swift's tickets last November and over longstanding allegations that the company badgers its competitors to win new business. Such bullying would be a violation of a Justice Department agreement that set conditions on the merger of Live Nation and Ticketmaster in 2010.
"This is all the definition of monopoly," said Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota. "Live Nation is so powerful that it doesn't even need to exert pressure. It doesn't need to threaten. Because people just fall in line."
Some at the hearing went so far as to question whether the two companies, whose agreement with the Justice Department expires in 2025, should be broken up.
Mr. Berchtold, Live Nation's president and chief financial officer, acknowledged the problems with a presale for Ms. Swift's tour, and apologized to the singer and her fans. When those tickets went on sale, millions of people were turned away. Technical problems also caused tickets to disappear from the online baskets of customers -- whom Ticketmaster had approved through its Verified Fan system -- as they were trying to buy them.
Mr. Berchtold largely attributed Ticketmaster's failings to an assault from online bots: automated programs, run by scalpers, that seek to snatch up tickets before they ever make their way to consumers. That drew a largely skeptical response from the senators.
"This is unbelievable," Senator Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, said, with more than a hint of anger in her voice. "Why is it," she added, "that you have not developed an algorithm to sort out what is a bot and what is a consumer?"
Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, was even more blunt. "The way your company handled the ticket sales with Ms. Swift," he said, "was a debacle."
The merger of Live Nation and Ticketmaster united the world's most powerful concert promoter and the biggest ticketing platform, creating a colossus without equal in the multibillion-dollar live music business.
In 2019, the last full year unaffected by the Covid-19 pandemic for which Live Nation has reported data, the company put on more than 40,000 events around the world and sold 485 million tickets. It owns or otherwise controls more than 300 venues around the world, far more than any other player in the business.
In part because of its bulk and global reach, Live Nation has long been the target of complaints from competitors, who contend that the company's size, and its control of Ticketmaster, give it an unfair advantage.
Jerry Mickelson, a longtime independent concert promoter in Chicago, told the senators that a common frustration among the market's smaller players is that Live Nation can profit from concerts put on by rival promoters because it still makes money through its control of Ticketmaster. "Pepsi doesn't earn money from Coke," he said. "But our competitor, Live Nation, makes money from selling tickets to our concerts."
Objections to Live Nation's business have grown louder since 2019, when the Justice Department said that the company had "repeatedly violated" the terms of its regulatory agreement, called a consent decree.
Justice Department investigators said that Live Nation had threatened venues that it would withhold tours under the company's control if those venues did not sign deals with Ticketmaster, in violation of a key provision in the decree. Live Nation did not admit any wrongdoing, but in early 2020 the Justice Department extended the decree by five years.
Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, was among those at the hearing who raised the question of whether Live Nation's merger with Ticketmaster should be undone.
"If the Department of Justice establishes violations of the consent decree," he said, "then unwinding the merger ought to be on the table."
Mr. Berchtold pushed back against many of the accusations, saying that Live Nation does not threaten venues; that those venues hold a great deal of leverage in negotiating ticketing contracts; and that new entrants like SeatGeek, a rival ticketing platform, have kept Ticketmaster on its toes. According to various estimates cited by the senators, Ticketmaster controls the ticketing at 70 to 80 percent of major concert venues in the United States. Mr. Berchtold said Live Nation's estimate is 50 to 60 percent and he attributed its market share to the quality of its product.
"We believe ticketing has never been more competitive," he said.
At the hearing, called "That's the Ticket: Promoting Competition and Protecting Consumers in Live Entertainment," witnesses included other players in the concert business who described great difficulties competing against Live Nation.
Jack Groetzinger, the chief executive of SeatGeek, said that venues are afraid of losing Live Nation concert tours if they do not sign with Ticketmaster. He said that is an obstacle for smaller companies like his in winning new business -- though SeatGeek has been one of the more successful upstarts in ticketing in recent years, signing major clients like the Dallas Cowboys and Jujamcyn Theaters, one of the major Broadway theater owners.
The panel also included a musician, Clyde Lawrence, of a small New York band called Lawrence. Dressed in a black suit, and with a scruffy head of hair, he joked that he could only dream of the crushing ticket demand enjoyed by Ms. Swift. But he described frustrations in dealing with Live Nation, such as the backstage costs it charges musicians, and the opacity of ticket surcharges, for which his band gets nothing.
He described a typical show, where the face value of the ticket was $ 30, plus $ 12 in fees. Yet out of that $ 42 paid by the consumer, $ 30 was eaten up by the venue, Live Nation and Ticketmaster, and another $ 6 went to the band's touring expenses. "So that leaves us with $ 6 for an eight-piece band, pretax," he said, "and we also have to pay our own health insurance."
In his questioning, Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri, honed in on a facet of Ticketmaster's business, the resale marketplace that exists seamlessly within its online ticket sales platform, "where you're forcing everyone in the resale market to come into your ecosystem."
"This is how monopolies work," Mr. Hawley added. "You leverage market power in one market to get market power in another market -- and it looks like you're doing that in, frankly, multiple markets."
Ms. Klobuchar, who called the hearing, said in a summation that some of the problems in ticketing, such as fighting bot traffic, could be dealt with through legislation. But she said that the larger question, of whether to take action against Live Nation as a monopoly, was best handled by the Justice Department. The near-unanimous criticism from lawmakers on Tuesday may put pressure on the Justice Department to act.
The most remarkable aspect of the hearing may have been the display of consensus by a panel often split along partisan lines. Mr. Blumenthal summed that up with a mocking salute to Mr. Berchtold.
"I want to congratulate and thank you for an absolutely stunning achievement," he said. "You have brought together Republicans and Democrats in an absolutely unified cause."
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Consent decrees; Ticket sales; Consumers; Musical performances; Congressional hearings; Investigations; Singers

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers

Location: United States--US

People: Swift, Taylor

Company / organization: Name: SeatGeek; NAICS: 518210; Name: Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc; NAICS: 561599; Name: Department of Justice; NAICS: 922130; Name: Live Nation Entertainment Inc; NAICS: 711320; Name: Committee on the Judiciary-Senate; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/24/arts/music/ticketmaster-taylor-swift-senate-hearing.html

Title: Senators Raise Breaking Up Live Nation 'Monopoly,' After Bungled Sale of Taylor Swift Tickets:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 25, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2768944210

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/senators-raise-breaking-up-live-nation-monopoly/docview/2768944210/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 25, 2023

Last updated: 2024-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ticketmaster Cast as a Powerful ‘Monopoly’ at Senate Hearing

Author: Sisario, Ben; Stevens, Matt

Publication info: Sisario, Ben; Stevens, Matt. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ticketmaster-cast-as-powerful-monopoly-at-senate/docview/2768822392/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Live Nation Entertainment, the concert industry giant that owns Ticketmaster, came under withering attack during a Senate Judiciary hearing Tuesday, with committee members from both parties criticizing it for the botched sale of tickets to Taylor Swift’s latest tour and calling the company a monopoly that hinders competition and harms consumers.
Over nearly three hours, senators pilloried a top Live Nation executive, Joe Berchtold, over the handling of Swift’s tickets in November and over long-standing allegations that the company badgers its competitors to win new business. Such bullying would be a violation of a Justice Department agreement that set conditions on the merger of Live Nation and Ticketmaster in 2010.
“This is all the definition of monopoly,” said Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn. “Live Nation is so powerful that it doesn’t even need to exert pressure. It doesn’t need to threaten. Because people just fall in line.”
Some at the hearing went so far as to question whether the two companies, whose agreement with the Justice Department expires in 2025, should be broken up.
Berchtold, Live Nation’s president and chief financial officer, acknowledged the problems with a presale for Swift’s tour, and apologized to the singer and her fans. When those tickets went on sale, millions of people were turned away. Technical problems also caused tickets to disappear from the online baskets of customers — whom Ticketmaster had approved through its Verified Fan system — as they were trying to buy them.
Berchtold largely attributed Ticketmaster’s failings to an assault from online bots: automated programs, run by scalpers, that seek to snatch up tickets before they ever make their way to consumers. That drew a largely skeptical response from the senators.
“This is unbelievable,” Sen. Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn., said, with more than a hint of anger in her voice. “Why is it,” she added, “that you have not developed an algorithm to sort out what is a bot and what is a consumer?”
Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., was even more blunt. “The way your company handled the ticket sales with Ms. Swift,” he said, “was a debacle.”
The merger of Live Nation and Ticketmaster united the world’s most powerful concert promoter and the biggest ticketing platform, creating a colossus without equal in the multibillion-dollar live music business.
In 2019, the last full year unaffected by the COVID-19 pandemic for which Live Nation has reported data, the company put on more than 40,000 events around the world and sold 485 million tickets. It owns or otherwise controls more than 300 venues around the world, far more than any other player in the business.
In part because of its bulk and global reach, Live Nation has long been the target of complaints from competitors, who contend that the company’s size, and its control of Ticketmaster, give it an unfair advantage.
Jerry Mickelson, a longtime independent concert promoter in Chicago, told the senators that a common frustration among the market’s smaller players is that Live Nation can profit from concerts put on by rival promoters because it still makes money through its control of Ticketmaster. “Pepsi doesn’t earn money from Coke,” he said. “But our competitor, Live Nation, makes money from selling tickets to our concerts.”
Objections to Live Nation’s business have grown louder since 2019, when the Justice Department said that the company had “repeatedly violated” the terms of its regulatory agreement, called a consent decree.
Justice Department investigators said that Live Nation had threatened venues that it would withhold tours under the company’s control if those venues did not sign deals with Ticketmaster, in violation of a key provision in the decree. Live Nation did not admit any wrongdoing, but in early 2020 the Justice Department extended the decree by five years.
Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., was among those at the hearing who raised the question of whether Live Nation’s merger with Ticketmaster should be undone.
“If the Department of Justice establishes violations of the consent decree,” he said, “then unwinding the merger ought to be on the table.”
Berchtold pushed back against many of the accusations, saying that Live Nation does not threaten venues; that those venues hold a great deal of leverage in negotiating ticketing contracts; and that new entrants like SeatGeek, a rival ticketing platform, have kept Ticketmaster on its toes. According to various estimates cited by the senators, Ticketmaster controls the ticketing at 70% to 80% of major concert venues in the United States. Berchtold said Live Nation’s estimate is 50% to 60% and he attributed its market share to the quality of its product.
“We believe ticketing has never been more competitive,” he said.
At the hearing, called “That’s the Ticket: Promoting Competition and Protecting Consumers in Live Entertainment,” witnesses included other players in the concert business who described great difficulties competing against Live Nation.
Jack Groetzinger, CEO of SeatGeek, said that venues are afraid of losing Live Nation concert tours if they do not sign with Ticketmaster. He said that is an obstacle for smaller companies like his in winning new business — although SeatGeek has been one of the more successful upstarts in ticketing in recent years, signing major clients like the Dallas Cowboys and Jujamcyn Theaters, one of the major Broadway theater owners.
The panel also included a musician, Clyde Lawrence, of a small New York band called Lawrence. Dressed in a black suit, and with a scruffy head of hair, he joked that he could only dream of the crushing ticket demand enjoyed by Swift. But he described frustrations in dealing with Live Nation, such as the backstage costs it charges musicians, and the opacity of ticket surcharges, for which his band gets nothing.
He described a typical show, where the face value of the ticket was $30, plus $12 in fees. Yet out of that $42 paid by the consumer, $30 was eaten up by the venue, Live Nation and Ticketmaster, and another $6 went to the band’s touring expenses. “So that leaves us with $6 for an eight-piece band, pretax,” he said, “and we also have to pay our own health insurance.”
In his questioning, Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., honed in on a facet of Ticketmaster’s business, the resale marketplace that exists seamlessly within its online ticket sales platform, “where you’re forcing everyone in the resale market to come into your ecosystem.”
“This is how monopolies work,” Hawley added. “You leverage market power in one market to get market power in another market — and it looks like you’re doing that in, frankly, multiple markets.”
Klobuchar, who called the hearing, said in a summation that some of the problems in ticketing, such as fighting bot traffic, could be dealt with through legislation. But she said that the larger question, of whether to take action against Live Nation as a monopoly, was best handled by the Justice Department. The near-unanimous criticism from lawmakers on Tuesday may put pressure on the Justice Department to act.
The most remarkable aspect of the hearing may have been the display of consensus by a panel often split along partisan lines. Blumenthal summed that up with a mocking salute to Berchtold.
“I want to congratulate and thank you for an absolutely stunning achievement,” he said. “You have brought together Republicans and Democrats in an absolutely unified cause.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Bands; Professional football; Technological change; Ticket sales; Corporate presidents; Consumers; Market positioning; Musical performances; Consent decrees; Corporate profits; Congressional committees

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate presidents Consumers Market positioning Corporate profits

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc; NAICS: 561599; Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120; Name: SeatGeek; NAICS: 51 8210; Name: Live Nation Entertainment Inc; NAICS: 711320

Identifier / keyword: Business; Minnesota; Dallas Cowboys; Sisario, Ben; Connecticut; United States; Missouri; Tennessee; Pepsico Inc; Blackburn, Marsha; Democratic Party; Lawrence (Music Group); Jujamcyn Theaters; Swift, Taylor; Kennedy, John Fitzgerald; New York State; Seatgeek Inc; Klobuchar, Amy; Republican Party; Justice Department; Senate; Ticketmaster; Live Nation Entertainment Inc; Company Reports; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; E Commerce; Theater; Law And Legislation; Pop And Rock Music; Ticket Scalping; Music; Box Office Sales; Politics And Government; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov)

Title: Ticketmaster Cast as a Powerful ‘Monopoly’ at Senate Hearing

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 24, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-24 @ 18:11

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2768822392

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ticketmaster-cast-as-powerful-monopoly-at-senate/docview/2768822392/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 24, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

F.T.C. Seeks to Ban Noncompete Deals: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Scheiber, Noam

Publication info: Scheiber, Noam. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/f-t-c-seeks-ban-noncompete-deals/docview/2761006552/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A sweeping proposal by the Federal Trade Commission would block companies from limiting their employees' ability to work for a rival.
In a far-reaching move that could raise wages and increase competition among businesses, the Federal Trade Commission on Thursday unveiled a rule that would block companies from limiting their employees' ability to work for a rival.
The proposed rule would ban provisions of labor contracts known as noncompete agreements, which prevent workers from leaving for a competitor or starting a competing business for months or years after their employment, often within a certain geographic area. The agreements have applied to workers as varied as sandwich makers, hairstylists, doctors and software engineers.
Studies show that noncompetes, which appear to directly affect roughly 20 percent to 45 percent of U.S. workers in the private sector, hold down pay because job switching is one of the more reliable ways of securing a raise. Many economists believe they help explain why pay for middle-income workers has stagnated in recent decades.
Other studies show that noncompetes protect established companies from start-ups, reducing competition within industries. The arrangements may also harm productivity by making it hard for companies to hire workers who best fit their needs.
The F.T.C. proposal is the latest in a series of aggressive and sometimes unorthodox moves to rein in the power of large companies under the agency's chair, Lina Khan.
President Biden hailed the proposal on Thursday, saying that noncompete clauses "are designed simply to lower people's wages."
"These agreements block millions of retail workers, construction workers and other working folks from taking a better job, getting better pay and benefits, in the same field," he said at a cabinet meeting.
The public will be allowed to submit comments on the proposal for 60 days, at which point the agency will move to make it final. An F.T.C. document said the rule would take effect 180 days after the final version was published, but experts said it could face legal challenges.
The agency estimated that the rule could increase wages by nearly $ 300 billion a year across the economy. Evan Starr, an economist at the University of Maryland who has studied noncompetes, said that was a plausible wage increase after their elimination.
Dr. Starr said noncompetes appeared to lower wages both for workers directly covered by them and for other workers, partly by making the hiring process more costly for employers, who must spend time figuring out whom they can hire and whom they can't.
He pointed to research showing that wages tended to be higher in states that restrict noncompetes. One study found that wages for newly hired tech workers in Hawaii increased by about 4 percent after the state banned noncompetes for those workers. In Oregon, where new noncompetes became unenforceable for low-wage workers in 2008, the change appeared to raise the wages of hourly workers by 2 percent to 3 percent.
Although noncompetes appear to be more common among more highly paid and more educated workers, many companies have used them for low-wage hourly workers and even interns.
About half of states significantly constrain the use of noncompetes, and a small number have deemed them largely unenforceable, including California.
But even in such states, companies often include noncompetes in employment contracts, and many workers in these states report turning down job offers partly as a result of the provisions, suggesting that these state regulations may have limited effects. Many workers in those states are not necessarily aware that the provisions are unenforceable, experts say.
"Research shows that employers' use of noncompetes to restrict workers' mobility significantly suppresses workers' wages -- even for those not subject to noncompetes, or subject to noncompetes that are unenforceable under state law," Elizabeth Wilkins, the director of the F.T.C.'s office of policy planning, said in a statement.
The commission's proposal appears to address this issue by requiring employers to withdraw existing noncompetes and to inform workers that they no longer apply. The proposal would also make it illegal for an employer to enter into a noncompete with a worker or to try to do so, or to suggest that a worker is bound by a noncompete when he or she is not.
The proposal covers not just employees but also independent contractors, interns, volunteers and other workers.
Defenders of noncompetes argue that employees are free to turn down a job if they want to preserve their ability to join another company, or that they can bargain for higher pay in return for accepting the restriction. Proponents also argue that noncompetes make employers more likely to invest in training and to share sensitive information with workers, which they might withhold if they feared that a worker might quickly leave.
A ban "ignores the fact that, when appropriately used, noncompete agreements are an important tool in fostering innovation," Sean Heather, a senior vice president at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement.
At least one study has found that greater enforcement of noncompetes leads to an increase in job creation by start-ups, though some of its conclusions are at odds with other research.
Dr. Starr said that noncompetes did appear to encourage businesses to invest more in training, but that there was little evidence that most employees entered into them voluntarily or that they were able to bargain over them. One study found that only 10 percent of workers sought to bargain for concessions in return for signing a noncompete. About one-third became aware of the noncompete only after accepting a job offer.
Michael R. Strain, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, said that while there were good reasons to scale back noncompetes for lower-wage workers, the rationale was less clear for better-paid workers with specialized knowledge or skills.
"If your job is to make minor tweaks to the formula for Coca-Cola and you're one of 25 people on earth who knows the formula," Dr. Strain said, speaking hypothetically, "it makes total sense that Coca-Cola might say, 'We don't want you to go work for Pepsi."'
He said that it might be possible to satisfy an employer's concerns with a less blunt tool, like a nondisclosure agreement, but that the evidence for this was lacking.
In a video call with reporters on Wednesday, Ms. Khan said she believed the F.T.C. had clear authority to issue the rule, noting that federal law empowers the agency to prohibit "unfair methods of competition."
But Kristen Limarzi, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher who previously served as a senior official in the antitrust division of the Justice Department, said she believed such a rule could be vulnerable to a legal challenge. Opponents would probably argue that the relevant federal statute is too vague to guide the agency in putting forth a rule banning noncompetes, she said, and that the evidence the agency has on their effects is still too limited to support a rule.
At the helm of the F.T.C. since last year, Ms. Khan has tried to use the agency's authority in untested ways to rein in the power and influence of corporate giants. In doing so, she and her allies hope to reverse a turn in recent decades toward more conservative antitrust law -- a shift that they say enabled runaway concentration, limited options for consumers and squeezed small businesses.
Ms. Khan has brought lawsuits in recent months to block Meta, Facebook's parent company, from buying a virtual reality start-up and Microsoft from buying the video game publisher Activision Blizzard. Both cases employ less common legal arguments that are likely to face heavy scrutiny from courts. But Ms. Khan has indicated she is willing to lose cases if the agency ends up taking more risks.
Ms. Khan and her counterpart at the Justice Department's antitrust division, Jonathan Kanter, have also said they want to increase the focus of the nation's antitrust agencies on empowering workers. Last year, the Justice Department successfully blocked Penguin Random House from buying Simon & Schuster using the argument that the deal would lower compensation for authors.
One question looming over the discussion of noncompetes is what effect banning them may have on prices during a period of high inflation, given that limiting noncompetes tends to raise wages.
But the experience of the past two years, when rates of quitting and job-hopping have been unusually high, suggests that noncompetes may not currently be as big an obstacle to worker mobility as they have traditionally been. Partly as a result, banning them may not have much of a short-term effect on wages.
Instead, some economists say, the more pronounced effect of a ban may come in the intermediate and long term, once the job market softens and workers no longer have as much leverage. At that point, noncompetes could begin to weigh more heavily on job switching and wages again.
"Doing something like this is a way to help sustain the increase in worker power over the last couple of years," said Heidi Shierholz, president of the liberal Economic Policy Institute, who was chief economist at the Labor Department during the Obama administration.
David McCabe contributed reporting.
David McCabe contributed reporting.
Photograph Lina Khan has made aggressive moves since becoming chair of the F.T.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAEME SLOAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1); The F.T.C. said a ban on noncompete clauses could increase wages by nearly $ 300 billion a year across the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFANI REYNOLDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Agreements; Antitrust; Bans; Workers; Employers; Startups; Employees; Employment; Empowerment; Wages & salaries

Business indexing term: Subject: Antitrust Workers Employers Startups Employees Employment Wages & salaries

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Federal Trade Commission--FTC; NAICS: 926150

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/05/business/economy/ftc-noncompete.html

Title: F.T.C. Seeks to Ban Noncompete Deals:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 6, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761006552

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/f-t-c-seeks-ban-noncompete-deals/docview/2761006552/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions