____________________________________________________________

Book Listings: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/book-listings/docview/2865442128/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Even if the equinox, and official start to autumn, is a few days away, a season of new books is upon us.
Here are 67 books to watch for this fall. Whether you like novels or nonfiction, stories or memoir, historical fiction or evolutionary science (really!), there's certainly a book you'll love.
Beyond the Wall: A History of East Germany, by Katja Hoyer
A historian turns her eye to the country of her birth in this political history of the German Democratic Republic, which existed from 1949 to 1990. Contrary to common depictions, Hoyer presents a picture of a vibrant society that weathered intense state suppression but also enacted solidarity.
Basic Books, Sept. 5
Crossings: How Road Ecology Is Shaping the Future of Our Planet, by Ben Goldfarb
Humans have built 40 million miles of road on earth, which have profoundly influenced our world. Goldfarb's account examines roads in context of the environment around them -- touching on the Trans-Canada highway that conservationists called "the meatmaker," and even the mountain lions trapped in California's Santa Monica Mountains -- and profiles the scientists, engineers and organizers seeking to mitigate their ecological harm.
Norton, Sept. 12
Do You Remember Being Born?, by Sean Michaels
When an aging poet realizes that her critical acclaim hasn't translated to financial stability, she agrees to train a poetry A.I. program named Charlotte at a tech company's campus in California. Over the course of a week, she grapples with questions of art, family and connection.
Astra House, Sept. 5
Elon Musk, by Walter Isaacson
The best-selling author of "Steve Jobs" returns with a biography of the richest man on earth. Isaacson spent two years shadowing Musk, the head of X (formerly Twitter), Tesla and SpaceX, and interviewing both his friends and foes. The resulting book delves deep into the billionaire's demons, including childhood bullies and a difficult father, and interrogates their relationship to his success.
Simon & Schuster, Sept. 12
The Fraud, by Zadie Smith
Smith's new novel centers on a trial that divided Victorian England, in which a lower-class Australian butcher claimed the right to a huge estate. This roving work of historical fiction examines who has the right to tell a story, who is taken seriously and who is remembered.
Penguin Press, Sept. 5
Glossy: Ambition, Beauty, and the Inside Story of Emily Weiss's Glossier, by Marisa Meltzer
The cosmetics behemoth Glossier began in 2010, with the lifestyle blog "Into the Gloss." Meltzer emphasizes the entrepreneurial savvy of the brand's founder, Emily Weiss, who blogged in the mornings before her internship at Vogue and eventually secured funding from the same venture capital firm as Apple and Google, turning Glossier into the rare billion-dollar company helmed by a woman.
Atria/One Signal, Sept. 12
Holly, by Stephen King
The private investigator Holly Gibney appeared in "The Outsider," "Mr. Mercedes" and other novels, and King has said she "stole" his heart. Now, she takes center stage as she works to recover a missing girl and uncover the gruesome secret held by two retired professors.
Scribner, Sept. 5
Daughter, by Claudia Dey
Dey's third novel follows Mona, whose father is a novelist. After he makes her complicit in an affair with his publicist, the other women in her family hold her responsible. Leaping between Mona's narration and her family's, Dey examines estrangement from multiple perspectives as decades of betrayal accumulate.
Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Sept. 12
A House for Alice, by Diana Evans
In the wake of the 2017 fire at Grenfell Tower, in London, and the death of her estranged husband, a woman named Alice considers returning to Nigeria in hopes of leaving behind the "disagreement of place" she feels with Britain.
Pantheon, Sept. 12
Larry McMurtry: A Life, by Tracy Daugherty
A celebrated literary biographer takes on the life of McMurtry, a fellow Texan known for his Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, "Lonesome Dove," and other best selling Westerns. Daugherty's perceptive analysis brings alive McMurtry's trademark wit -- he often wore a shirt that said "minor regional novelist" -- along with his solitary tendencies and disciplined approach to writing.
St. Martin's, Sept. 12
Normal Rules Don't Apply: Stories, by Kate Atkinson
Atkinson's first story collection in years features 11 related selections with the feel of fairy tales. They are populated by a recurring cast of characters: the rakish, aimless Franklin Fletcher; Princess Aoife; Dame Phoebe Hope-Waters; and a chorus of talking animals.
Doubleday, Sept. 12
Rouge, by Mona Awad
In this Gothic tale set in modern-day Los Angeles, a young woman grieves her beauty-obsessed mother and is saddled with her debts. Eventually, she becomes entangled with the cultlike spa that consumed her mother's life.
Simon & Schuster/Marysue Rucci, Sept. 12
The Vaster Wilds, by Lauren Groff
Groff's new novel is a wilderness epic about a servant girl who must survive a bitter winter after fleeing a colonial settlement in 1600s Virginia.
Riverhead, Sept. 12
The Young Man, by Annie Ernaux. Translated by Alison L. Strayer.
Ernaux received the Nobel Prize in Literature last year, becoming the first Frenchwoman to receive the prize. This book chronicles an affair she had when she was in her 50s with a much younger man, which led her to revisit how her own life unfolded: "With him I traveled through all the ages of life, my life."
Seven Stories, Sept. 12
Bright Young Women, by Jessica Knoll
The year is 1978, and the All-American Sex Killer, as the papers refer to the criminal, is on a murder spree. After a pair of young women go missing in Seattle and a student finds two of her sorority sisters dead in Tallahassee, two women linked by tragedy go on a shared mission to catch the culprit.
Simon & Schuster/Marysue Rucci, Sept. 19
Father and Son: A Memoir, by Jonathan Raban
Raban died in January, but this meditative memoir tells two parallel stories: Raban's own, coming to terms with the limitations of his body after suffering a stroke at 68; and his father's, who was evacuated at the Battle of Dunkirk during World War II and with whom his relationship was distant for many years.
Knopf, Sept. 19
Mr. Texas, by Lawrence Wright
Wright, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and longtime resident of Texas, spins a satirical story about his state's politics. After Sonny's heroic actions during a fire, a lobbyist approaches him about running for his district's seat in the Texas state Legislature. As Sonny, who cares deeply about doing the right thing, ventures deeper into his campaign, he must decide how far he's willing to go to get ahead and save his ranch (and his marriage).
Knopf, Sept. 19
Night Watch, by Jayne Anne Phillips
At the Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum in West Virginia -- which operates under Dr. Thomas Story Kirkbride's surprisingly progressive "moral treatment" principles -- 12-year-old ConaLee and her mother take back their lives in the wake of the Civil War.
Knopf, Sept. 19
The Pole, by J.M. Coetzee
This new book by the Nobel laureate traces the constantly shifting power imbalance in a love affair between a Polish pianist, Wittold Walccyzkiecz, and his beloved, Beatriz, who is a married philanthropist.
Liveright, Sept. 19
Wellness, by Nathan Hill
Hill (known for his earlier book, "The Nix") tells the story of Jack and Elizabeth's marriage, from their courtship in the '90s Chicago art scene to their life as parents decades later. According to Hill, the novel is most concerned with the question: "How much can something change before it's no longer fundamentally itself?"
Knopf, Sept. 19
American Gun: The True Story of the AR-15, by Cameron McWhirter and Zusha Elinson
Two Wall Street Journal reporters dig into the history of this controversial weapon, which was invented in a 1950s California garage, used widely by the U.S. military during the Vietnam War and adopted by mass shooters in the 2000s. The book's measured examination considers how World War II, pop culture and profit contributed to the AR-15's proliferation.
Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Sept. 26
Germany 1923: Hyperinflation, Hitler's Putsch, and Democracy in Crisis, by Volker Ullrich. Translated by Jefferson Chase.
This history investigates the forces that led to the Weimar Republic's eventual collapse, many of which came to a head in 1923. Economic pressures, along with occupation by French troops and Hitler's failed coup all made for a "year of lunacy," Ullrich writes, though such forces would not succeed in toppling Germany's first democracy for another decade.
Liveright, Sept. 26
Land of Milk and Honey, by C Pam Zhang
In a version of the future where the world is blanketed in smog and everyday foods (even fresh strawberries) have become scarce, a young chef travels to a mountain colony on the Italian-French border to cook meals of rare ingredients for the ultrawealthy. There, she rediscovers the pleasures of food and forms a curious bond with her boss's daughter.
Riverhead, Sept. 26
People Collide, by Isle McElroy
Eli and Elizabeth are a couple living in Bulgaria, but one day, Eli leaves the apartment to discover he's in his wife's body -- and his wife, presumably in his body, is missing. As Eli searches for his wife across Europe, he re-examines his marriage, his lived experience and even the basic tenets of his identity.
HarperVia, Sept. 26
Thicker Than Water: A Memoir, by Kerry Washington
The star of "Scandal" and "Little Fires Everywhere" offers a view into her private life and identity. Her memoir touches on childhood traumas, the mentors who helped her career, the motivations behind her political advocacy and her tumultuous but satisfying path to finding her authentic self.
Little Brown Spark, Sept. 26
The Unsettled, by Ayana Mathis
Mathis follows three generations of a Black family in 1985. Ava Carson moves into a Philadelphia shelter after leaving an abusive marriage, along with her son, Toussaint. In Alabama, Ava's estranged mother is a once-promising blues singer whose hometown is rapidly changing. But when Toussaint's father, Cass -- a Black Panther -- returns to town with a vision of building a local health clinic and commune, he brings hope and a sense of danger.
Knopf, Sept. 26
Alfie and Me: What Owls Know, What Humans Believe, by Carl Safina
The author, an ecologist, and his wife rescued a screech owl in bad shape, expecting it would be well on its way soon. But the owl's prolonged stay, which coincided with the Covid-19 pandemic, brought a sense of "consistent magic," prompting Safina to reflect on nature, spirituality and human existence.
Norton, Oct. 3
Brooklyn Crime Novel, by Jonathan Lethem
Spanning nearly 100 years, Lethem's latest work views the borough through a lens of the crimes -- both literal and figurative -- underpinning its gentrification.
Ecco, Oct. 3
Collision of Power: Trump, Bezos, and The Washington Post, by Martin Baron
The former executive editor of the Post details the many difficult decisions involved in maintaining journalistic integrity during the years he ran the paper, from 2013-2021. Especially fascinating is Baron's inside analysis of the forces at play when Jeff Bezos bought the Post in 2013, and three years later, when Donald Trump became president and expected Bezos to censor it.
Flatiron, Oct. 3
A Day in the Life of Abed Salama: Anatomy of a Jerusalem Tragedy, by Nathan Thrall
A Palestinian father desperately looks for his 5-year-old son after his school bus crashes outside of Jerusalem. As his search is slowed down by bureaucratic hurdles and a scattered emergency response, Thrall depicts the agony of losing a child and how it's intensified by the discrimination Palestinians face under Israeli rule.
Metropolitan, Oct. 3
Eve: How the Female Body Drove 200 Million Years of Human Evolution, by Cat Bohannon
Bohannon traces the development of mammalian milk from a field mouse that lived 200 million years ago, investigates the biological mystery of menopause and provides evidence that women utilized tools before men in this comprehensive book, which synthesizes a wide breadth of scientific research to reframe the story of evolution around the female body.
Knopf, Oct. 3
Extremely Online: The Untold Story of Fame, Influence, and Power on the Internet, by Taylor Lorenz
The Washington Post reporter presents a history of social media, "the greatest and most disruptive change in modern capitalism." She reports on "mommy bloggers" and the birth of influencers, catalogs the rise and fall of platforms that have shaped online culture and offers a sober assessment of their toll on our collective mental health.
Simon & Schuster, Oct. 3
Going Infinite: The Rise and Fall of a New Tycoon, by Michael Lewis
Lewis, the author of "The Big Short" and other books cataloging financial breakdowns, first met Sam Bankman-Fried after a friend asked him to vet Bankman-Fried's cryptocurrency platform FTX. About a year later, both men were in the Bahamas when Bankman-Fried was arrested and charged with fraud. This new book, based on many months of interviews, chronicles the meteoric rise and fall of both the company and the man.
Norton, Oct. 3
How to Say Babylon: A Memoir, by Safiya Sinclair
"The scorch-marks of his anger were everywhere I looked, my family withered and blistered," the Jamaican poet recalls. As she recounts her upbringing under the surveillance of a restrictive and volatile Rastafari father, she reflects on childhood trauma, colonialism and her growing affinity for poetry.
37 Ink, Oct. 3
Making It So: A Memoir, by Patrick Stewart
Stewart reflects on not only his years in the Royal Shakespeare Company and his famous "Star Trek" role as Picard (about which his feelings have changed), but also his working-class childhood in northern England, his changing relationship to family and even his love for nearly-burned toast. Now 83, the actor insists he has no intention of retiring from his lifelong calling: "Why would I stop?"
Gallery, Oct. 3
A Man of Two Faces: A Memoir, a History, a Memorial, by Viet Thanh Nguyen
The Pulitzer Prize-winning writer pushes the boundary of genre in his new memoir, which investigates his personal history as a Vietnamese refugee forced to flee at age 4, as well as the many narratives that form the idea of America itself. Film criticism, poetry and self-effacing jokes are involved, but ultimately, "this is a war story," he writes.
Grove, Oct. 3
The Maniac, by Benjamín Labatut
Labatut's first novel written in English is a trio of stories about real-life geniuses and scientific breakthroughs that disrupted the fabric of human reality. His subjects include the Austrian physicist Paul Ehrenfest; Johnny von Neumann, who collaborated on the Manhattan Project; and Lee Sodol, a South Korean master of the game Go, who in 2016 retired after a defeat by artificial intelligence.
Penguin Press, Oct. 3
Blackouts, by Justin Torres
The unnamed narrator first met Juan while undergoing treatment at a psychiatric hospital. A decade later, Juan is dying, and the narrator has signed on to finish his research. Interspersed throughout the book are passages of a fictional biography, poems and playful references to queer art and literature.
Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Oct. 10
The Hive and the Honey, by Paul Yoon
Yoon's haunting, evocative new collection centers on themes of migration, displacement, collective memory and the Korean diaspora.
Simon & Schuster/Marysue Rucci, Oct. 10
The Leftover Woman, by Jean Kwok
Jasmine arrives in the United States in search of her daughter, whom her abusive husband gave up for adoption. Soon, she learns the child was taken in by a wealthy New York publishing family. Balancing shifts as a cocktail waitress to pay down her debts to the human traffickers who brought her to America, she must field threats that could reveal her secret.
Morrow, Oct. 10
Madonna: A Rebel Life, by Mary Gabriel
At over 800 pages long, Gabriel's detailed biography seems to follow every peak and valley of Madonna's life, tracing her childhood in 1960s Michigan and the loss of her mother at 5 years old; rise to fame in the nascent years of MTV; AIDS advocacy; and much more.
Little, Brown, Oct. 10
Normal Women, by Ainslie Hogarth
When Dani realizes that she and her daughter would be financially adrift without her husband's income, she takes a job at the Temple -- a local yoga center that might also be a brothel -- under the guidance of its leader, Renata. But then Renata disappears, and it's up to Dani to find her.
Vintage, Oct. 10
The Canceling of the American Mind: Cancel Culture Undermines Trust and Threatens Us All -- But There Is a Solution, by Greg Lukianoff and Rikki Schlott
Lukianoff, an author of "The Coddling of the American Mind," explains the phenomenon of cancel culture, shows how it's employed by liberals and conservatives alike and explores its context within a greater struggle for status and power in America. Along with Schlott, a columnist at The New York Post, he provides suggestions for reclaiming free speech.
Simon & Schuster, Oct. 17
The Exchange, by John Grisham
This sequel to Grisham's 1991 novel, "The Firm," revisits the lawyer Mitch McDeere in the years since he and his wife, Abby, exposed a Memphis law firm's ties to the criminal underworld. Now, 15 years later, Mitch is a partner at one of New York's biggest law firms. After a friend is kidnapped in Libya, a hostage negotiation places him at the center of an international emergency.
Doubleday, Oct. 17
Judgment at Tokyo: World War II on Trial and the Making of Modern Asia, by Gary J. Bass
After World War II ended, Japanese military leaders were put on trial for war crimes, an attempt to reckon with atrocities that took more than two years. Bass's history shows that, unlike its more famous counterpart in Nuremberg, the Tokyo trial provided few decisive resolutions, and argues that its legacy still reverberates today.
Knopf, Oct. 17
Tremor, by Teju Cole
Composed of vignettes, Cole's new novel traces a weekend through the eyes of Tunde, a Nigerian photography professor, as he meditates on art, race and history.
Random House, Oct. 17
Vengeance Is Mine, by Marie NDiaye. Translated by Jordan Stump.
Maître Susane is a lawyer living quietly in Bordeaux, until a man approaches her with a request: Could she represent his wife, who has been accused of murdering their children? As the case threatens to upend her life, she puzzles over whether she knows this man from her past.
Knopf, Oct. 17
Worthy, by Jada Pinkett Smith
Pinkett Smith described her upcoming memoir as "an adventure, a search for love and self-worth." In it, she opens up about her early life in Baltimore, her marriage to Will Smith and addresses the "falsehoods" she says have circulated about her life over the past several years.
Dey Street, Oct. 17
America Fantastica, by Tim O'Brien
This is the first novel in 20 years from O'Brien, a National Book Award winner, who is best known for his 1990 collection, "The Things They Carried." The story is a madcap heist/road-trip starring a bank robber (who used to be a journalist) and his spitfire hostage, Angie. In hot pursuit are a bumbling private eye, a drug-fueled billionaire and a wannabe Charles Manson.
Mariner, Oct. 24
I Must Be Dreaming, by Roz Chast
"I am creating them. So why, as they unfold, am I always so surprised?" the renowned cartoonist asks about her dreams in this inspired graphic narrative. She enlists everyone and everything she can -- Aristotle, Freud, neuroscientists -- in her quest to find out, in vivid color.
Bloomsbury, Oct. 24
Let Us Descend, by Jesmyn Ward
Ward, the National Book Award-winning author of "Sing, Unburied, Sing," and "Salvage the Bones," returns with a story that riffs on Dante's "Inferno," following an enslaved teenager named Annis who is separated from her mother and sold by her white father. "It took years and multiple drafts to understand how Annis and enslaved people might have retained their sense of self, their sense of hope, in a time and place that attempted to negate both, day in and out," Ward said of the book.
Scribner, Oct. 24
Romney: A Reckoning, by McKay Coppins
Romney has played many political roles -- Massachusetts governor, presidential candidate, senator from Utah. He granted Coppins, a staff writer at The Atlantic who has covered the Republican Party and religion for years, access to private journal entries, emails and texts and sat for interviews. Coppins said he was "astonished by his level of candor" while working on this biography.
Scribner, Oct. 24
Tupac Shakur: The Authorized Biography, by Staci Robinson
Robinson, who knew Shakur in high school, draws on the rapper's letters and notebooks along with interviews with close family and friends, in the first biography authorized by the Shakur estate. It includes photos, handwritten lyrics, and other artifacts from the estate's archives.
Crown, Oct. 24
Absolution, by Alice McDermott
This new novel, from a National Book Award winner, unfolds in 1963 Saigon. After a miscarriage, Tricia joins Charlene's efforts to help Vietnamese civilians. Decades later, when Charlene's daughter reaches out to reconnect, Tricia reckons with the implications of her friend's altruism, both for their lives and on a wider scale.
Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Oct. 31
Being Henry: The Fonz ... and Beyond, by Henry Winkler
Winkler is known for his role on the beloved 1970s sitcom "Happy Days," and he's been a television fixture for decades; his performance on "Barry" won an Emmy in 2018. His new memoir chronicles the vagaries of his career, his struggle with dyslexia, his experience writing children's books and more.
Celadon, Oct. 31
A Shining, by Jon Fosse. Translated by Damion Searls.
Fosse, a Norwegian writer, has become something of a literary sensation after the popularity of his dark-horse Septology series. In his new novel, a man makes a series of wrong turns, gets out of his car, starts walking through the forest and becomes dazzled by the titular "shining" and other near-death hallucinations.
Transit Books, Oct. 31
Class: A Memoir of Motherhood, Hunger, and Higher Education, by Stephanie Land
In this follow-up to "Maid," a best-selling memoir about her grueling life as a domestic worker in Washington State, Land recounts the years in which she juggled her pursuit of a writing career with the reality of life as a single parent "who struggled to make ends meet in endless, sometimes impossible ways."
Atria/One Signal, Nov. 7
To Free the Captives: A Plea for the American Soul, by Tracy K. Smith
Smith, a former U.S. Poet Laureate, draws on her personal and family history to make sense of the "din of human division and strife" in America. Beginning with her grandfather's experience as a World War I veteran in Sunflower, Ala., and touching on her own spiritual life, she offers searching questions about the nation's future.
Knopf, Nov. 7
My Name is Barbra, by Barbra Streisand
This book has been hotly anticipated since its announcement years ago. Streisand offers a highly detailed (nearly 1,000 pages) account of her life. It covers her early struggles to become an actress, the hardships she endured as a Jewish woman directing in Hollywood, her friendships with fellow celebrities and much more.
Viking, Nov. 7
Same Bed Different Dreams, by Ed Park
Park spent nine years working on his new surrealist novel, which imagines an alternate political reality. In this world, the Korean Provisional Government, a resistance organization formed in March 1919, is still working toward a unified Korea.
Random House, Nov. 7
The Vulnerables, by Sigrid Nunez
Set during the spring of 2020, an unnamed female narrator -- similar to the narrator of Nunez's National Book Award-winning novel, "The Friend" -- contemplates the meaning of life, connection and self-mythology in pandemic-era New York.
Riverhead, Nov. 7
World Within a Song: Music That Changed My Life and Life That Changed My Music, by Jeff Tweedy
The frontman and a founding member of Wilco reflects on 50 songs that have shaped his life and art, including tracks by Joni Mitchell, Otis Redding and Billie Eilish, as he meditates on what compels us to listen to and create music.
Dutton, Nov. 7
Broken Code: Inside Facebook and the Fight to Expose Its Harmful Secrets, by Jeff Horwitz
Horwitz, a technology reporter at The Wall Street Journal, has written award-winning investigations of how Facebook shielded its elite users, enabled human and drug trafficking and amplified anger on the platform. He expands on that reporting in this book, providing a view of the company's operations and highlighting the employees who identified concerns, proposed solutions and fought efforts to slow them.
Doubleday, Nov. 14
Chasing Bright Medusas: A Life of Willa Cather, by Benjamin Taylor
Taylor's biography captures Cather's early life in Virginia and Nebraska in the late 19th century, and covers her development as a journalist and writer who eschewed contemporary fashions. It offers a thoughtful analysis of her work and makes a case for its relevance today.
Viking, Nov. 14
Day, by Michael Cunningham
Told over the course of three days -- April 5 in 2019, 2020 and 2021 -- this new novel explores how Dan, Isabel, their children and Isabel's brother change over the course of a tumultuous period, which was profoundly shaped by Covid-19. Cunningham received a Pulitzer Prize for his novel "The Hours."
Random House, Nov. 14
The New Naturals, by Gabriel Bump
In the wake of their child's death, a couple founds a utopian society inside an abandoned restaurant in western Massachusetts, drawing a colorful group of members from all walks of life. But as with all counterculture experiments, the group soon wonders whether utopia is truly possible.
Algonquin, Nov. 14
Milton Friedman: The Last Conservative, by Jennifer Burns
Burns, a historian at Stanford and the author of an intellectual biography of Ayn Rand, gives Friedman, a driving force in the postwar embrace of free-market economics, similar treatment in this rigorous account. She draws on archival material to trace his influences, assess his work and recount the struggles and triumphs that shaped his life.
Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Nov. 14
This article appeared in print on page AR61, AR62.

Subject: Stroke; Pulitzer prizes; Autobiographies; Novels; Biographies; Books; Decades; World War II; Women; Nobel prizes; Historical fiction

Location: Texas; United States--US; Germany; East Germany; California

People: Bankman-Fried, Sam

Company / organization: Name: Simon & Schuster Inc; NAICS: 513130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/06/17NEW-LISTINGS-BOOKS-PRINT.html

Title: Book Listings:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.61

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 17, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2865442128

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/book-listings/docview/2865442128/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-11-03

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Unlikely Landing Pad For Prestige Media Alumni: [Style Desk]

Author: Kurutz, Steven

Publication info: Kurutz, Steven. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unlikely-landing-pad-prestige-media-alumni/docview/2853182184/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: When Graydon Carter started his digital newsletter, Air Mail, in 2019, the initial advertisers included Hermès, Ralph Lauren and Standard Industries.
The first two names on that list made perfect sense, given the worlds of Hollywood, celebrity and international society that Mr. Carter covered exhaustively while he was editor of Vanity Fair for 25 years -- a mix he has since transported to Air Mail.
The third was a head scratcher. Standard Industries? It sounded like a shadowy multinational corporation in a James Bond film.
By 2021, Standard was not only an advertiser in Air Mail but also an investor in the publication. That year, while speaking to a reporter from Business Insider, Mr. Carter shed some light on his publication's new benefactor. He described Standard as "a very glamorous roofing company."
Over the past few years, Standard, described on its website as a "global industrial company," has become a backer of several media start-ups in addition to Air Mail.
They include Pushkin Industries, the podcasting network co-founded by Malcolm Gladwell; Cabana, a lushly produced twice-yearly shelter magazine and e-commerce site; Spiegel & Grau, a book publisher established by two veteran Random House publishers; and Puck, a digital publication that covers wealth and power and has a profit-sharing arrangement with its writers.
A roofing business investing in buzzy media start-ups seemed curious, to say the least. But surprisingly, the connections between Standard and the media world -- and the lost kingdom of Vanity Fair under Mr. Carter in particular -- don't end there.
Several former Vanity Fair employees -- what Mr. Carter, in an email, called the VF diaspora -- have gone to work for Standard. They include Beth Kseniak, the magazine's longtime communications director; Sara Switzer, a publicist; and Dan Gilmore, an articles editor and a former assistant to Mr. Carter.
Jon Kelly, a founder of Puck and another of Mr. Carter's former assistants, even compared Standard to his former employer.
"The vibe of the office feels like Vanity Fair," Mr. Kelly told The New Yorker last year when interviewed about his new media venture. "People are sharp and sophisticated. It's just classy."
How did a roofing company come to be a player in the media business and the next career step for high-achieving magazine veterans?
The answer, it seems, is as much about the aspirations and evolution of Standard as it is about the extinction of the type of career once offered by legacy print media.
More Than a Roofer
Standard Industries' headquarters are in Midtown Manhattan, and the company is far more than a roofer. Its website says it operates in more than 80 countries and has about 20,000 employees. In 2021, Forbes ranked it the 46th largest private company in the United States.
The business dates to the early 1980s, when Samuel Heyman, a corporate raider, bought GAF Corporation, a manufacturer of roofing materials in New Jersey, and took the company private. GAF later became mired in asbestos-related lawsuits. When Mr. Heyman died unexpectedly in 2009, his sons-in-law, David Millstone and David Winter, who at the time were both 32 and already working for their father-in-law, took over the roofing company.
That same year "the Davids," as they are referred to internally, founded Standard Industries as a holding company to build upon GAF and Winter Properties, a real estate company in New York started by Benjamin Winter Sr., Mr. Winter's great-grandfather. The men have added subsidiaries, acquiring W.R. Grace, a chemicals company that has faced its own asbestos lawsuits; Braas Monier, a European roofing manufacturer; and Icopal, a Danish maker of high-end roofing products.
Mr. Millstone and Mr. Winter declined to comment for this article, through a spokesman. (The company also declined to speak on the record but provided background information to The Times.) According to several former employees and associates of Standard, the Davids have aspirations to shake up the humdrum business of roofing and to become technology-focused innovators and disrupters.
Mr. Millstone studied philosophy at Yale, where he rowed crew, and attended Harvard Law School. He is said to be a big fiction reader interested in issues of sustainability and social justice. He and his wife, Jennifer, live in Aspen, Colo., and are philanthropists for public service and Jewish causes.
Mr. Winter grew up in Rye, N.Y., and studied economics and political science at the University of Pennsylvania. He is the one who is most interested in media, associates say. Mr. Winter is divorced from Mr. Heyman's daughter, Liz, and lives in Manhattan. He is on the boards of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Carnegie Hall and Conservation International.
In a rare interview, Mr. Winter told Forbes in 2021 that he and Mr. Millstone aimed to "crack rooftop solar" and unseat Elon Musk and Tesla as the new kings of the green technology. Standard recently introduced solar roofing shingles that it said need only a nail gun to install. Another project involves making roofing materials that incorporate 5G technology.
While doing things that felt familiar to the core business, the Davids were also expanding Standard Investments, an investment arm they established, which now manages more than $ 4 billion. The majority of that money is invested in the public markets, in other industrial companies like Shell. But through Standard Investments, the Davids have also invested in businesses further afield, like MyForest Foods, which makes plant-based meat alternatives; Saildrone, which operates ocean drones for mapping and data; and the electric carmaker Rivian.
Given Standard's early involvement in Air Mail and its many links to Vanity Fair, one might assume that Mr. Carter, 74, is the person who wooed the Davids to invest in his new media venture and then others.
But in an email from Italy, where he was on vacation with his family, Mr. Carter dispelled that idea. Asked if he made introductions to Mr. Kelly and others who received funding from Standard, or put in a good word for former employees who have gone to work there, Mr. Carter said, "Not at all."
He said the person responsible for that was Hamilton South, a veteran public relations executive who has worked at Giorgio Armani and Ralph Lauren and later helped found (and eventually sold) HL Group, a communications and consulting agency with fashion and corporate clients.
"Hamilton was on the front lines in this," Mr. Carter said. "He brought in Beth Kseniak to handle communications and, before you know it, the place was filled with the VF diaspora."
Stylish and well connected, Mr. South, 59, is also a Vanity Fair alum. He was hired at the magazine in 1989 under the editor Tina Brown, and became one of the few staff members from that incarnation to earn Mr. Carter's admiration and to stay on when he took over in 1992.
An Enticing Pitch
Mr. South came to Standard as chief of staff in September 2017; the company had previously been a client at HL Group. He has since become Standard's vice chairman.
He counts Diane von Furstenberg and Barry Diller as close friends. He and his husband, Manuel Bellod Álvarez de Lorenzana, a retired investment banker, own multiple homes in the United States and Spain.
Several people echoed Mr. Carter's account that it was Mr. South who acted as a consigliere to the Davids, helping to remake Standard's corporate culture. That makeover was achieved, in large part, by importing the staff and culture that Mr. Carter had built at Vanity Fair, starting soon after he ended his reign as editor in late 2017 and was replaced by Radhika Jones.
In 2018, as part of companywide cost cutting at Condé Nast, which owns Vanity Fair, about 20 of its staff members were let go. Among them were longtime members of Mr. Carter's inner circle, including Ms. Kseniak along with a deputy editor, Dana Brown. The mass firing, which happened on Feb. 14, has become known in Vanity Fair circles as "the St. Valentine's Day Massacre."
Many who lost their jobs had benefited from the largess of Condé Nast -- and, to some extent, Mr. Carter -- and were staring down uncertain professional lives after years on the mountaintop. Enter Mr. South, who began contacting former staff members with an enticing pitch to work at a company on the rise and at a salary significantly higher than their media jobs.
Mr. Brown, who worked at Vanity Fair for more than two decades, starting as Mr. Carter's assistant in 1994, said that working there partly required you to be a polymath -- to have "specific knowledge" of different industries and social scenes and to know "how the world works." The job also involved being a living embodiment of the stylish world created by its top editors.
Now, according to Mr. South's pitch, Standard needed culturally astute storytellers and worldbuilders. People who could burnish the reputation of a company with a subsidiary, Siplast, that worked on the roofs of notable buildings like the Metropolitan Museum of Art and Moynihan Train Hall.
Ms. Kseniak consulted initially and came aboard in late 2019. Already on staff was Harrison Vail, a member of her team at Vanity Fair whom Mr. South had contacted. Others, like Ms. Switzer and Mr. Gilmore, who is now chief of staff for Mr. Millstone, soon followed.
Mr. Vail is now back working for Mr. Carter as the communications director at Air Mail. Ms. Kseniak, Ms. Switzer, Mr. Gilmore and Mr. South, through a spokesman for Standard, declined to comment for this article.
Mr. Brown, 50, who chronicled his time at Vanity Fair in a memoir, "Dilettante," was initially surprised when he heard some former colleagues were working for an industrial firm, he said, but he understood the appeal. By then, the golden age of magazine publishing was over, killed by the internet and social media, and the famously lavish budgets and salaries were vanishing.
"I tell you, if I had gotten a call from Standard Industries, offering me a job with a great salary and benefits, I would have been, like, 'Screw it. I'm in the roofing business now,"' Mr. Brown said. (Some of his colleagues who left Vanity Fair did transition into jobs more similar to what they had been doing. Aimée Bell, a deputy editor, became a vice president at Gallery Books, a Simon & Schuster imprint. Krista Smith, the magazine's executive West Coast editor, went to work for Netflix.)
Another former Vanity Fair staff member who heard Mr. South's pitch was Lizzie Wolff, who also worked in communications with Ms. Kseniak and joined the digital newsletter theSkimm after Vanity Fair. Ms. Wolff, 40, said she was hesitant to make the switch from media.
"I worked at a place where we did the biggest party in the world," she said, referring to the annual Vanity Fair Oscar party. "You can imagine me at a cocktail party. 'Solar, investments, this and that."'
But after speaking to the Davids, she added, "I remember thinking these were really engaged and engaging guys. They were interested in transforming their business, but also had ideas and an interesting vision." As at Vanity Fair, Ms. Wolff worked with Ms. Kseniak at Standard. She left the company earlier this year to consult and raise her children.
In 2019, Standard started a webcast speaker series that treated employees in its trucking and roofing subsidiaries -- and anyone who wanted to watch online -- to events featuring "innovators and thought leaders" in conversation with Mr. Millstone and Mr. Winter. Participants included the author Jennifer Egan discussing curiosity and fiction and the TV host Seth Meyers musing on fatherhood. Two Vanity Fair alumni, Matt Ullian and Jane Sarkin, who now run an events company, Boldface Partners, were hired to wrangle some guests.
At the same time, Ms. Kseniak and her team of former Vanity Fair staff members sought interesting stories within Standard's many businesses to pitch to mainstream media outlets like Forbes to raise the company's profile.
The team also had to develop relationships with people from the roofing industry and trade publications, which sometimes made for fish-out-of-water moments.
In 2020, Mr. Vail found himself in Dallas to attend the International Roofing Expo. At Vanity Fair, he had also traveled for work -- to the South of France, for the Cannes Film Festival.
Building a Media Portfolio
As Mr. South helped remake Standard's corporate culture in the image of Vanity Fair's, he also leveraged his connections to bring the Davids opportunities to invest in media -- an industry that, though diminished, still had a certain pizazz and power associated with it. (Consider Jeff Bezos and other billionaires who have bought media companies -- or Mr. Carter, who left Vanity Fair only to return to media.)
Jacob Weisberg, the former editor of Slate and a founder of Pushkin, which produces such podcasts as "Broken Record" and "Revisionist History," said he has known Mr. South since his early days working in media. He said that relationship was ultimately how Pushkin's pitch deck ended up with the Davids in late 2018.
Mr. Kelly has known Mr. South since he was an assistant at Vanity Fair. Mr. South invited him to meet the Davids in May 2018 and, not long after, Mr. Kelly contacted Mr. South to see if Standard wanted to invest in the business that became Puck.
Julie Grau and Cindy Spiegel used to work with Mr. South's sister, Mary South, at Riverhead Books. In early 2021, the women pitched to Standard their idea for a "content-forward, format-agnostic" publisher that would take a boutique approach to releasing books, as well as create original podcasts and audiobooks.
"We spoke to David Millstone and he communicated very clearly that he believed in what we were doing and that he wanted to support it," Ms. Grau said.
As for Mr. Carter, he was having dinner with Mr. South in 2021 after completing the initial funding round for Air Mail. Mr. South "mentioned that if we went out for another round," Standard would be interested, Mr. Carter said in an email.
The media investments represent a tiny fraction of Standard's portfolio -- about $ 25 million of the investment arm. But they seem to hold a sizable interest for Mr. Millstone and Mr. Winter, who recently made another investment in Puck.
"He's not there for the wrong reasons," Mr. Weisberg said of Mr. Winter, who sits on Pushkin's board, and is a board observer at Puck. "He's there to learn and because it's interesting. He gets it. He's truly curious about how media works."
In 2020, Standard moved offices, into the space that Mr. Kelly likened to Vanity Fair's glamorous offices back in the golden days.
The company, which needed more space for staff, relocated from the 30th floor of the Solow Building on West 57th Street, where tenants include Chanel and Apollo Global Management, to the 46th and 47th floors.
The newly designed, open-plan office, which Standard declined to show to The Times in person, features light wood floors, artwork by Ed Ruscha and views of Midtown and Central Park.
"Quiet luxury, as they say these days," Mr. Carter said of Standard's headquarters.
Vanity Fair has also moved offices.
In another cost-cutting move, Condé Nast reduced its 1.2 million square feet of office space at One World Trade Center and subleased several floors. As a result, Vanity Fair relocated from a floor-through space on the building's 40th floor down to the 25th floor, where the staff is now squeezed together with the staffs of Vogue, GQ, Glamour, Self, Allure and other titles.
Photograph Top, David Winter, left, and David Millstone, the chief executives of Standard Industries, in 2021. Above left, the International Roofing Expo in Dallas, attended by former Vanity Fair staff members. Above right, Hamilton South, center, now at Standard Industries, at a 2013 gala. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL PRINCE/THE FORBES COLLECTION, VIA CONTOUR RA BY GETTY IMAGES; INFORMA MARKETS; SCOTT RUDD/PENSKE MEDIA, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page ST8.

Subject: Roofing; Art galleries & museums; Corporate culture; Magazines; Startups; Personal profiles; Employees; Editors; Employment; Diaspora

Business indexing term: Subject: Corporate culture Startups Employees Employment

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/18/style/standard-industries-vanity-fair.html

Title: An Unlikely Landing Pad For Prestige Media Alumni:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 20, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2853182184

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/unlikely-landing-pad-prestige-media-alumni/docview/285 3182184/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Clean Energy Future Is Roiling Both Friends and Foes

Author: Tankersley, Jim; Plumer, Brad; Swanson, Ana; Penn, Ivan

Publication info: Tankersley, Jim; Plumer, Brad; Swanson, Ana; Penn, Ivan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/clean-energy-future-is-roiling-both-friends-foes/docview/2852831973/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
If there is anywhere in the country primed to welcome the clean energy transition, it is Penobscot Bay in Maine. Electricity prices there are high and volatile. The ocean waters are warming fast, threatening the lobster fishery. Miles offshore, winds blow strong enough to heat every home and power every car in the state.
For more than 15 years, researchers at the University of Maine have been honing scale models of floating wind turbines inspired by oil rigs. They are now confident they can mass-produce turbine blades the length of football fields and float them miles into the ocean. It is the kind of breakthrough in clean energy technology that is allowing a much faster transition to renewables than many believed possible, aided by state officials eager to pioneer a floating wind industry.
One key to harnessing that wind lies at the end of a causeway jutting into the bay, on a mostly undeveloped island where eagles fish offshore and people walk in the quiet shade. Many officials see this spot, known as Sears Island, as the ideal site to build and launch a flotilla of turbines that could significantly lessen Maine’s reliance on fossil fuels.
Standing in their way are environmental groups and local residents, all of whom are committed to a clean energy future and worried about the rapid warming of the Earth. Still, they want the state to pick a different site for its so-called wind port, citing the tranquility of Sears Island and its popularity and accessibility as a recreation destination.
On a recent summer morning one conservationist against the plan, Scott Dickerson, sat on a picnic bench and predicted environmental groups would sue to thwart development of the island, as they had many times in the past.
“And that, as you can imagine, is going to run the clock,” he said, costing the state valuable time that could be saved by looking elsewhere.
After years of fits and starts, the transition to renewable energy like wind and solar power is finally shifting into full gear in many parts of the world, including the United States, which has been buoyed by massive new subsidies from the Biden administration. But around the country, the effort is being slowed by a host of logistical, political and economic challenges.
Breaks in supply chains have stalled big projects. Historically low unemployment makes it hard to hire workers to build or install new turbines or solar panels. Shortcomings in the power grid can block newly generated electricity from reaching customers. Federal, state and local regulations, including often byzantine permitting requirements, threaten to delay some construction for years. So do the court battles that almost inevitably follow those permitting decisions.
These problems are not unique to the United States. In Europe, orders for new turbines dropped unexpectedly last year as developers struggled with inflation and sluggish permitting. In parts of China, a growing fraction of electricity from turbines and solar panels is being wasted because the grid lacks capacity. In Australia, clean energy companies have complained about a shortage of skilled workers.
At the same time, it tends to take longer to build solar arrays, wind farms, car chargers and transmission lines in the United States than in China, India and Europe, a recent analysis by the International Energy Agency found.
But no hurdle to a clean energy transition at the speed and scale scientists say is needed to avert catastrophic warming is easier to see than the growing local backlash to large-scale wind and solar projects, like the one roiling Sears Island.
The problem boils down to this: If lawmakers want to ramp up renewables as fast and cheaply as possible, they’ll need to bulldoze or build over some places that people treasure.
While Americans broadly support renewable energy, polls show, they are less enthusiastic about having it in their backyard. One survey from 2021 found that only 24% of Americans were willing to live within 1 mile of a solar farm; the number dropped to 17% for wind farms.
Such resistance is often rooted in anxieties about broader social and economic change in communities where families have lived for generations. But in some cases, like lawsuits trying to stop wind farm development off Massachusetts, groups with funding from fossil fuel interests have stoked fear. Those efforts are their own sort of obstacle to renewables: an attempt by incumbent energy players to protect their market share, even if the economics have turned against them.
A recent analysis found that it would cost less for electric utilities to build new wind and solar farms than to operate most of the existing coal-fired power plants — a stunning shift from 15 years ago, when burning coal was the cheapest way to make electricity.
But after years of rapid growth, installations of wind, solar and batteries slowed by 15% last year, according to the American Clean Power Association, a trade group.
“There’s a lot of capital ready to flow,” said Gregory Wetstone, president of the American Council on Renewable Energy, another trade group. “But to get these projects going, you need to get them permitted, you need to get them connected to the grid, you need workers, you need access to supply chains. All of that can still be quite difficult.”
In Maine, many of those challenges are concentrated at one choke point: where to put a new wind port, which state officials have not decided on.
Offshore turbines need a large slab of land where they can be built and launched to sea. That site must connect to highways, to truck in materials, but also sit beside deep water.
The state’s two main contenders are in Searsport, about 30 miles south of Bangor.
One site is an industrial area, Mack Point, clearly visible from Sears Island. It is the spot many locals and conservationists prefer. The company that owns it says it could be easily converted to build and ship offshore turbines.
But some officials have warned that it could be difficult for Mack Point to secure needed permits from the Environmental Protection Agency, the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal agencies in order to dredge the bay and build new port facilities.
In Searsport, many residents fear that state officials will bypass Mack Point, which sits on private land and would need to be leased for millions of dollars a year — costs that would probably be passed on to utility customers.
Sears Island, in contrast, is owned by the state. Under a previous agreement with conservation groups, two-thirds of its woods and beaches are to be a nature preserve. The other third is zoned for a port.
Supporters of choosing the island site include Habib Dagher, a godfather of Maine’s offshore wind efforts and the founding executive director of the University of Maine’s Advanced Structures and Composites Center. He suggested it was worth trading the existing open space of the island for lower energy prices and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
“All of us would like to think that we can have renewable energy with zero impact on the environment — as you know, it’s not possible, right?” Dagher said in an interview at his wind lab. “So our goal, and our challenge, is: How do we minimize impact on environment as we embark on this transformational energy system?”
Conservation groups have fought development on Sears Island for decades, beating back a nuclear power plant, a gas import terminal and more. They reject the idea that they must lose that fight now — even as they lament climate change.
Rolf Olsen is a retired marketing executive and an avid day hiker. He kayaks and likes to swim in Penobscot Bay after mowing his lawn. He drives a white plug-in Toyota Prius and is vice president of a group called Friends of Sears Island, and he sat on a state advisory panel over where to locate the wind port, which he says should be at Mack Point.
On a recent hike, he described what a Sears Island port might look like, in place of the oaks and the birches.
“I have a picture in my mind’s eye. You know, it’s huge, flat, towering concrete and steel,” he said. “It saddens me.”
So, he added, does the warming of the planet.
“I have a granddaughter who’s 3. She’s going to have to live in a different world.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Ports; Clean technology; Electricity distribution; Wind farms; Environmental impact; Offshore; Industrial plant emissions; Climate change; Nuclear power plants; Turbines; Alternative energy; Electricity; Wind; Energy industry; Renewable resources; Supply chains; Emission standards; Coal-fired power plants

Business indexing term: Subject: Ports Energy industry Renewable resources Supply chains Coal-fired power plants

Location: Maine; Sears Island; Europe; New York; United States--US; Kansas; China; Penobscot Bay

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: University of Maine; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: Electric Light And Power; Automobiles; Sustainable Living; Global Warming; States (Us); Supply Chain; Energy And Power; Massachusetts; Shortages; Searsport (Me); Air Pollution; United States; Agriculture And Farming; Alternative And Renewable Energy; Lobsters; Energy Efficiency; International Trade And World Market; Penobscot Bay (Me); Sears Holdings Corporation; Armada Oil Inc; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Europe; Environment; Outsourcing; Nuclear Energy; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Army Corps Of Engineers; Environmental Protection Agency; Decisions And Verdicts; Wind Power; Federal State Relations (Us); Advertising And Marketing; Toyota Motor Corp; International Energy Agency; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; International Relations; Maine; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Factories And Manufacturing; Polls And Public Opinion; Home Repairs And Improvements; Fish Farming; India; Coal; Solar Energy; Australia; Conservation Of Resources; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Economy; University Of Maine; Fish And Other Marine Life; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: The Clean Energy Future Is Roiling Both Friends and Foes

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 18, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-18T22:50:55Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodica ls--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2852831973

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/clean-energy-future-is-roiling-both-friends-foes/docview/2852831973/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

'A Jacuzzi Is a Person, Not a Machine': [Style Desk]

Author: Solomon, Saskia

Publication info: Solomon, Saskia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jacuzzi-is-person-not-machine/docview/2849425733/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Candido Jacuzzi didn't set out to turn his last name into a global brand. Nor did he intend to power a business which, though it created the family fortune, nearly tore them apart. He just wanted to ease the physical pain suffered by his son, any way he could.
The Jacuzzi -- that vessel of bubbling water known and loved the world over -- may now be geared for backyard socializing, a must-have for yachts, hotels and chalets, spring break parties and cruise liners, but its technology was conceived with just one person in mind: Kenneth Jacuzzi, a boy under 2 years old, stricken with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis after a severe case of strep throat.
This empire starts, and ends, with family -- seven brothers, to be exact, Candido being the seventh. It begins long before his son's diagnosis in 1943, although that was the catalyst.
The Jacuzzis were, at the turn of the 20th century, a large clan in Casarsa, a farming commune in Northern Italy. Growing up on this hilltop surrounded by vineyards, the siblings began work early and wore wooden shoes, saving handmade slippers for Mass.
Though money was often scarce, the family had as pillars their deeply religious parents: Teresa, who didn't work outside the home, and Giovanni, a carpenter. They were descendants of farmers and dock workers, and not only raised seven sons, but also six daughters. These were, in order: Rachele, Valeriano, Francesco, Giuseppe, Gelindo, Giocondo, Felicità, Angelina, Ancilla, Candido, Cirilla, Stella and Gilia. They were an ambitious baker's dozen; the boys studied to become engineers, and the girls trained to become seamstresses.
As change swept through Europe, and war threatened, Giovanni hatched a plan to get his sons to the United States. The brothers headed wherever there was work. For some this meant rural Idaho; for others, sun-dappled California, where eventually the entire family would settle.
"They dug ditches, built railroads, did everything they could to make a buck and send it back to Italy, and try to get the rest of the family over," said Paulo Jacuzzi, 54, the grandson of Valeriano Jacuzzi, the second oldest of the thirteen children and the first to arrive in America.
It was a gradual exodus, starting in 1907 and ending in 1920. "The sisters came over in the second wave," Paulo added.
The brothers, speaking only basic English, worked first in the California orange groves, before banding together and using their background as mechanical engineers to establish a machine shop in Berkeley in 1915, working under the name Jacuzzi Brothers Incorporated.
After a period of stagnancy, facing debts incurred by the loss of the expensive plane, the brothers redirected their focus to the land. They worked on developing irrigation systems for orchards and designed a line of deep-well injector pumps, later selling their patents to large corporations in exchange for royalty deals, and began manufacturing swimming pool supplies.
The move to water made them well placed to venture into hydrotherapy when, in 1943, Candido's 15-month-old son fell ill.
The prognosis was grim, and doctors were uncertain he would live past 8. The boy was once active and healthy, but doctors told the family that he would slowly lose mobility and be unable to live independently.
Devastated, Candido and his wife, Inez, tried everything, including a full-body cast in an attempt to coax his limbs to grow straight, and even the "gold treatment," in which gold salts are injected into the body.
But it was their introduction to hydrotherapy by way of the Hubbard tank at the Herrick hospital in Berkeley that gave them a glimmer of hope. The Hubbard was an oval-shaped vessel with a wooden bench, through which water would swirl and pummel the patient's body to relieve stiffness and improve flexibility.
This form of hydrotherapy made such an immediate difference to the boy's well-being that they took him there twice a week. But the hourlong drive was a strain for Inez, and painful for Ken, who would writhe in agony during the commute. "So she comes home to Candido and says, 'Hey, I'm doing all of this driving, why can't you make something like this at home?" Paulo recalled. "And that's exactly what they did."
A Leisure Activity's Rise and Fall
The J-300 was a pump designed by Candido that created a similar whirl of warm water to the Hubbard and could be attached to a bath. But Ken could stretch his whole body out, whereas he had to sit upright in the Hubbard.
Once they understood the pump's health potential, and made structural improvements to the design, the brothers began selling the units in 1949, through bath supply shops and pharmacies, before widening their focus to the broader commercial market in the mid 1950s.
An ad campaign promoted it as a "lightweight, portable, hydromassage unit," perfect for "the tired businessman or harried housewife, for the golfer with sore muscles, for the aches and pains of senior citizens, for frolicking youngsters and for those who just want to relax and pamper themselves with a hydromassage bath."
To some consumers the idea of mixing an electrical device with water was worrisome, so the Jacuzzis started making bath units with the technology built-in, the first of which became the original whirlpool, known as the Roman Bath (the family now has more than 50 patents). These early models featured multiple wall-mounted jet fittings, heaters and recirculation pump filters, as well as skid-proof steps and an optional safety rail.
Hence, the Jacuzzi was born.
By adding fiberglass panels, the Jacuzzi could be configured in various shapes and sizes, resulting in the 1966 Luxury Line Hydro-Therapy Pool, the same year it made its film debut in "The Fortune Cookie," directed by Billy Wilder and starring Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon.
By the '80s, Jacuzzis were globally recognized. The business had opened factories in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile and Italy, as well as in the United States, choosing Lonoke, Ark., as its hub.
All of the children and grandchildren were expected to chip in during school and college vacations: working the assembly lines, packing boxes and answering the phones. "There was always that 'you have to do it for the family' kind of thing," Paulo said of the Jacuzzi family's sense of unity.
"If you have a hot tub, especially if you are like a straight man, you're making a statement about yourself, and you want to seem very cool and suave," said Rax King, who writes about pop culture in her book "Tacky" and hosts a podcast called "Low Culture Boil."
By the end of the 20th century it was a given that even a middling hotel, chalet or fitness club would have a Jacuzzi. Its craterlike form has been featured in teen dramas, '70s crime movies and '80s soap operas. A time-traveling hot tub was the basis for an entire movie. "Saturday Night Live" used them in a recurring skit, and among the most memorable scenes in "Scarface" was Al Pacino submerged in a bedroom hot tub. More recently, there was the tub-side class tension in the Oscar-nominated film "The Triangle of Sadness."
But these days, the allure of the Jacuzzi is increasingly clouded. Like stretch limousines, refrigerators with ice dispensers, it has come to represent the aspirational lifestyle of a recent past. The hot tub is no longer as desired as, say, a Tesla, the latest pair of statement boots or a host of less tangible digital innovations. Its ubiquity seemed to make it less of a luxury: As the market grew, similar designs emerged, which all became known as "jacuzzis."
While they sparkled when they were first introduced, they weren't always without their problems. If a hot tub isn't cleaned regularly, there is the risk of harmful microbes, mold and waterborne illnesses, such as Legionnaire's disease.
Though some people bought hot tubs during the pandemic to stave off boredom during quarantine, they had become less of a magnet in recent decades. Perhaps it's a problem of image: Jacuzzis, once fun, exciting and new, eventually became associated with a kind of suburban banality. In 2023 you're more likely to find aspirational mood boards for cold plunges than bubbling Jacuzzis.
"For the first 30 or so years of its existence, the hot tub was an exotic object: you could transport a hot spring into your house," Ms. King said in a phone interview. "And now we're all just kind of like, yeah, you can do that. You can bring the hot spring into your house, but you can also get an infection from it if someone doesn't clean it properly, and, in my circle, at least, nobody has the space."
By the late 1970s, the Jacuzzi family was a dynasty divided. There were 257 family members associated with the business by then and as the company grew they started to hire outsiders for senior positions, changing the internal dynamic.
Their story was not without "blemishes and blunders," as Paulo's father Remo Jacuzzi, 87, son of Valeriano, wrote in his 2007 biography, "Spirit, Wind & Water," explaining that "there were some dark moments in the Jacuzzi family history when a few family members made most of the decisions and the rest felt the repercussions."
Candido increasingly became dictatorial in his leadership style, according to Remo's book, and as was revealed later, had begun making deals behind his brothers' backs and had made the executive decision to establish a holding company named JacBros in Switzerland in 1959.
"It seemed to some that Candido forgot that it was not he, but Uncle Rachele, who had founded Jacuzzi Brothers," Remo writes, recalling an incident at a wedding where a guest innocently asked Candido if he was a member of the Jacuzzi clan. To which Candido snapped, "I am THE Jacuzzi."
Tensions had been building under the surface for some time. In a 1961 lawsuit (with the memorable title) Jacuzzi vs. Jacuzzi, one half of the family sued the other, accusing Candido's side of selling assets without proper consultation and stripping them of their pensions.
Courtroom proceedings began in 1967, more than five years after the complaint was filed. Some members found, to their great disquiet, that they were being trailed by private investigators hired by their own flesh and blood.
Indicted by a U.S. grand jury on five counts of income tax evasion, which had been flagged to the I.R.S. during the lawsuit, Candido fled first to Italy in 1969, then to South America. In a rare 1975 interview with Sports Illustrated, he lamented the decision to include nonfamily members on the board, who he felt had complicated matters. "When there were just us brothers, we'd put a bottle of wine on the table and solve our problems," he said. "Today, there are too many of us to do that."
They sold the business for $ 73 million in 1979 to the manufacturing conglomerate Walter Kidde & Company, and with it lost the right to use the family name on all future spa products. Roy Jacuzzi, a son of Candido's brother Joseph, was the only person left from the original company.
While it pains Paulo to recall the events that led to this breakdown, he doesn't seem bitter. "I think sometimes you need to clear the way for the next thing," he said. "It was still good, but there were so many strings pulling at it. At that time they weren't just doing bathtubs, or spas, gas grills, and propellers. They were also doing all these complementary lifestyle products. Their focus was gone."
For several members of the family, including Remo -- who had by that point been working for the firm for more than two decades -- the company's mission had strayed from its original purpose.
After working for Jacuzzi Inc.'s new owners for a couple of years, Remo left and in 1982 founded Jason International in an effort to return to the invention's therapeutic qualities. Paulo, his son, later served as president for six years until 2021.
"For me," Remo writes in his book, "a Jacuzzi is a person, not a machine. A Jacuzzi is a member of my family."
'He made me an offer I couldn't refuse.'
At the Jason International factory in North Little Rock, Ark., it's easy to see that, much like the family, the business relies on a particular rhythm.
"Behind Every Jason Bath Stands a Jacuzzi," one tagline read. "A product so good I wish I could put my name on it," was another, joined by Remo's elaborate signature.
"We had a few cease-and-desist orders," Paulo said, chuckling. His father, who has settled into a retirement home with his wife of 60 years, sent him to the library to read up on copyright law. "But there was nothing they could do. A "Jacuzzi" was a buzzword for hot tubs, and they couldn't claim exclusive copyright."
"It's brilliant Remo was gutsy enough to put that on there," said Sandy Morehead, the customer experience director of Jason, referring to the company's tagline. He used to tell me it was the best money he ever spent."
Paulo said: "You are selling the story, as well as a product, and that is a benefit when selling a commodity." It made sense for the extroverted Paulo, who is the youngest of six children, to work front of house. "They were like, 'We're going to get him to tell the family story, and sell the product.' My charge was make sure, beyond your generation, we carry forward your father's legacy, and more importantly your family's legacy, because it's not just because of one man -- it's about the entire family."
"We always used to joke that the Jacuzzi was my father's seventh, and favorite, child, who could do no wrong," said Paulo, who agreed to speak on his father's behalf. "My father never said it out loud, but it was understood that family is the most important thing you have."
This was why he took the top job at Jason in 2015 after years of working at an addiction center in Texas. "Besides," he added, leaning forward and adopting an exaggerated Italian American accent, gesturing with his hand contracted like a closed tulip, "he made me an offer I couldn't refuse."
Two years ago, Paulo felt he had reached a crossroads in his role at the family firm. Half of the family had already set up business in other industries, like Jacuzzi Family Vineyards.
Finally a decision was made, with Remo in agreement, to sell Jason International but keep shares in the company.
When Robert Easter, the president of American Industrial Brands, which bought Jason in 2021, first considered buying the company, he wanted to test the product. He had two Jason whirlpool baths installed in his office headquarters in northern Florida and soaked in both. He said that many of their customers now purchase the indoor whirlpool spas for therapeutic reasons, like the alleviation of severe eczema pain -- a return to the Jacuzzi's original purpose.
"Rome may have invented the bath, but it took a Jacuzzi to perfect it," Mr. Easter said. "It's an American story, but it's also an international story."
Ken, the boy who started it all, surprised doctors by living far beyond the age of 8, though he became wheelchair bound. He got married, earned an MBA and worked for a time as a Jacuzzi manager in Italy. He died in 2017 at 75.
Mr. Easter was conscious that he was buying not just another brand but also an entire heritage, and tried to put the family at ease.
This extended to the factory's appearance. The front of the building was remodeled, and its faux stonework, veranda and locked wooden shutters over nonexistent windows resembles a villa. Built into the wall next to the front door is a colorful mosaic of the Jacuzzi family crest. Running through its center, almost like a spine, their self-appointed motto: "Aqua Vita Est."
Water is life.
Photograph Above, Rachele Jacuzzi, right, who led the Jacuzzi brothers into the aviation industry. Above right, Candido Jacuzzi with his son, Kenneth, whose rheumatoid arthritis was the reason for the development of the hydromassage. Right, at the Jason International factory in 1983. (ST8); Far left, the Jacuzzi brothers and their pumps. Left, producing portable spas at Jason International in Little Rock, Ark., in 1983. Below, Remo C. Jacuzzi. Below left, a worker at the Little Rock plant last month. The ubiquity of the Jacuzzi, bottom eventually seemed to make it less of a luxury. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAULO JACUZZI; WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST8-ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Saunas & hot tubs; Families & family life; Hydrotherapy; Design; Patents; Sons; 20th century; Legionnaires' disease

Business indexing term: Subject: Patents

Location: Italy; California; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/11/style/the-frothy-saga-of-the-jacuzzi-family.html

Title: 'A Jacuzzi Is a Person, Not a Machine':   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 13, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849425733

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/jacuzzi-is-person-not-machine/docview/2849425733/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 13, 2023

Last updated: 2024-12-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Frothy Saga of the Jacuzzi Family

Author: Solomon, Saskia

Publication info: Solomon, Saskia. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/frothy-saga-jacuzzi-family/docview/2849647556/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Candido Jacuzzi didn’t set out to turn his last name into a global brand. Nor did he intend to power a business that, although it created the family fortune, nearly tore them apart. He just wanted to ease the physical pain suffered by his son, any way he could.
The Jacuzzi — that vessel of bubbling water known and loved the world over — may now be geared for backyard socializing, a must-have for yachts, hotels and chalets, spring break parties and cruise liners, but its technology was conceived with just one person in mind: Kenneth Jacuzzi, a boy under 2 years old, stricken with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis after a severe case of strep throat.
This empire starts, and ends, with family — seven brothers, to be exact, Candido being the seventh. It begins long before his son’s diagnosis in 1943, although that was the catalyst.
The Jacuzzis were, at the turn of the 20th century, a large clan in Casarsa, a farming commune in Northern Italy. Growing up on this hilltop surrounded by vineyards, the siblings began work early and wore wooden shoes, saving handmade slippers for Mass.
Although money was often scarce, the family had as pillars their deeply religious parents: Teresa, who didn’t work outside the home, and Giovanni, a carpenter. They were descendants of farmers and dock workers, and not only raised seven sons but six daughters. These were, in order: Rachele, Valeriano, Francesco, Giuseppe, Gelindo, Giocondo, Felicità, Angelina, Ancilla, Candido, Cirilla, Stella and Gilia. They were an ambitious baker’s dozen; the boys studied to become engineers, and the girls trained to become seamstresses.
As change swept through Europe, and war threatened, Giovanni hatched a plan to get his sons to the United States. The brothers headed wherever there was work. For some, this meant rural Idaho; for others, sun-dappled California, where eventually the entire family would settle.
“They dug ditches, built railroads, did everything they could to make a buck and send it back to Italy, and try to get the rest of the family over,” said Paulo Jacuzzi, 54, the grandson of Valeriano Jacuzzi, the second oldest of the thirteen children and the first to arrive in America.
It was a gradual exodus, starting in 1907 and ending in 1920. “The sisters came over in the second wave,” Paulo added.
The brothers, speaking only basic English, worked first in the California orange groves, before banding together and using their background as mechanical engineers to establish a machine shop in Berkeley in 1915, working under the name Jacuzzi Brothers Inc.
After a period of stagnancy, facing debts incurred by the loss of the expensive plane, the brothers redirected their focus to the land. They worked on developing irrigation systems for orchards and designed a line of deep-well injector pumps, later selling their patents to large corporations in exchange for royalty deals, and began manufacturing swimming pool supplies.
The move to water made them well placed to venture into hydrotherapy when, in 1943, Candido’s 15-month-old son fell ill.
The prognosis was grim, and doctors were uncertain he would live past 8. The boy was once active and healthy, but doctors told the family that he would slowly lose mobility and be unable to live independently.
Devastated, Candido and his wife, Inez, tried everything, including a full-body cast in an attempt to coax his limbs to grow straight, and even the “gold treatment,” in which gold salts are injected into the body.
But it was their introduction to hydrotherapy by way of the Hubbard tank at the Herrick hospital in Berkeley that gave them a glimmer of hope. The Hubbard was an oval-shaped vessel with a wooden bench, through which water would swirl and pummel the patient’s body to relieve stiffness and improve flexibility.
This form of hydrotherapy made such an immediate difference to the boy’s well-being that they took him there twice a week. But the hourlong drive was a strain for Inez, and painful for Ken, who would writhe in agony during the commute. “So she comes home to Candido and says, ‘Hey, I’m doing all of this driving, why can’t you make something like this at home?,’” Paulo recalled. “And that’s exactly what they did.”
A Leisure Activity’s Rise and Fall
The J-300 was a pump designed by Candido that created a similar whirl of warm water to the Hubbard and could be attached to a bath. But Ken could stretch his whole body out, whereas he had to sit upright in the Hubbard.
Once they understood the pump’s health potential, and made structural improvements to the design, the brothers began selling the units in 1949, through bath supply shops and pharmacies, before widening their focus to the broader commercial market in the mid-1950s.
An ad campaign promoted it as a “lightweight, portable, hydromassage unit,” perfect for “the tired businessman or harried housewife, for the golfer with sore muscles, for the aches and pains of senior citizens, for frolicking youngsters and for those who just want to relax and pamper themselves with a hydromassage bath.”
To some consumers, the idea of mixing an electrical device with water was worrisome, so the Jacuzzis started making bath units with the technology built-in, the first of which became the original whirlpool, known as the Roman Bath (the family now has more than 50 patents). These early models featured multiple wall-mounted jet fittings, heaters and recirculation pump filters, as well as skidproof steps and an optional safety rail.
Hence, the Jacuzzi was born.
By adding fiberglass panels, the Jacuzzi could be configured in various shapes and sizes, resulting in the 1966 Luxury Line Hydro-Therapy Pool, the same year it made its film debut in “The Fortune Cookie,” directed by Billy Wilder and starring Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon.
By the ’80s, Jacuzzis were globally recognized. The business had opened factories in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile and Italy, as well as in the United States, choosing Lonoke, Arkansas, as its hub.
All of the children and grandchildren were expected to chip in during school and college vacations: working the assembly lines, packing boxes and answering the phones. “There was always that ‘You have to do it for the family’ kind of thing,” Paulo said of the Jacuzzi family’s sense of unity.
“If you have a hot tub, especially if you are like a straight man, you’re making a statement about yourself, and you want to seem very cool and suave,” said Rax King, who writes about pop culture in her book “Tacky” and hosts a podcast called “Low Culture Boil.”
By the end of the 20th century, it was a given that even a middling hotel, chalet or fitness club would have a Jacuzzi. Its craterlike form has been featured in teen dramas, ’70s crime movies and ’80s soap operas. A time-traveling hot tub was the basis for an entire movie. “Saturday Night Live” used them in a recurring skit, and among the most memorable scenes in “Scarface” was Al Pacino submerged in a bedroom hot tub. More recently, there was the tubside class tension in the Oscar-nominated film “The Triangle of Sadness.”
But these days, the allure of the Jacuzzi is increasingly clouded. Like stretch limousines, refrigerators with ice dispensers, it has come to represent the aspirational lifestyle of a recent past. The hot tub is no longer as desired as, say, a Tesla, the latest pair of statement boots or a host of less-tangible digital innovations. Its ubiquity seemed to make it less of a luxury: As the market grew, similar designs emerged, which all became known as “jacuzzis.”
Although they sparkled when they were first introduced, they weren’t always without their problems. If a hot tub isn’t cleaned regularly, there is the risk of harmful microbes, mold and waterborne illnesses, such as Legionnaires’ disease.
Although some people bought hot tubs during the pandemic to stave off boredom during quarantine, they had become less of a magnet in recent decades. Perhaps it’s a problem of image: Jacuzzis, once fun, exciting and new, eventually became associated with a kind of suburban banality. In 2023, you’re more likely to find aspirational mood boards for cold plunges than bubbling Jacuzzis.
“For the first 30 or so years of its existence, the hot tub was an exotic object: You could transport a hot spring into your house,” King said in a phone interview. “And now we’re all just kind of like, yeah, you can do that. You can bring the hot spring into your house, but you can also get an infection from it if someone doesn’t clean it properly, and, in my circle, at least, nobody has the space.”
By the late 1970s, the Jacuzzi family was a dynasty divided. There were 257 family members associated with the business by then, and as the company grew, they started to hire outsiders for senior positions, changing the internal dynamic.
Their story was not without “blemishes and blunders,” as Paulo’s father, Remo, 87, son of Valeriano, wrote in his 2007 biography, “Spirit, Wind & Water,” explaining that “there were some dark moments in the Jacuzzi family history when a few family members made most of the decisions and the rest felt the repercussions.”
Candido increasingly became dictatorial in his leadership style, according to Remo’s book and, as was revealed later, had begun making deals behind his brothers’ backs and had made the executive decision to establish a holding company named JacBros in Switzerland in 1959.
“It seemed to some that Candido forgot that it was not he, but Uncle Rachele, who had founded Jacuzzi Brothers,” Remo writes, recalling an incident at a wedding where a guest innocently asked Candido if he was a member of the Jacuzzi clan. To which Candido snapped, “I am THE Jacuzzi.”
Tensions had been building under the surface for some time. In a 1961 lawsuit with the memorable title Jacuzzi vs. Jacuzzi, one half of the family sued the other, accusing Candido’s side of selling assets without proper consultation and stripping them of their pensions.
Courtroom proceedings began in 1967, more than five years after the complaint was filed. Some members found, to their great disquiet, that they were being trailed by private investigators hired by their own flesh and blood.
Indicted by a U.S. grand jury on five counts of income tax evasion, which had been flagged to the IRS during the lawsuit, Candido fled first to Italy in 1969, then to South America. In a rare 1975 interview with Sports Illustrated, he lamented the decision to include nonfamily members on the board, who he felt had complicated matters. “When there were just us brothers, we’d put a bottle of wine on the table and solve our problems,” he said. “Today, there are too many of us to do that.”
They sold the business for $73 million in 1979 to manufacturing conglomerate Walter Kidde & Co. and with the sale lost the right to use the family name on all future spa products. Roy Jacuzzi, a son of Candido’s brother Joseph, was the only person left from the original company.
Although it pains Paulo to recall the events that led to this breakdown, he doesn’t seem bitter. “I think sometimes you need to clear the way for the next thing,” he said. “It was still good, but there were so many strings pulling at it. At that time, they weren’t just doing bathtubs, or spas, gas grills and propellers. They were also doing all these complementary lifestyle products. Their focus was gone.”
For several members of the family — including Remo, who had by that point been working for the firm for more than two decades — the company’s mission had strayed from its original purpose.
After working for Jacuzzi Inc.’s new owners for a couple of years, Remo left and in 1982 founded Jason International in an effort to return to the invention’s therapeutic qualities. Paulo, his son, later served as president for six years until 2021.
“For me,” Remo writes in his book, “a Jacuzzi is a person, not a machine. A Jacuzzi is a member of my family.”
Reaching a Crossroads
At the Jason International factory in North Little Rock, Arkansas, it’s easy to see that, much like the family, the business relies on a particular rhythm.
“Behind Every Jason Bath Stands a Jacuzzi,” one tagline read. “A product so good I wish I could put my name on it,” read another, joined by Remo’s elaborate signature.
“We had a few cease-and-desist orders,” Paulo said, chuckling. His father, who has settled into a retirement home with his wife of 60 years, sent him to the library to read up on copyright law. “But there was nothing they could do. A “Jacuzzi” was a buzzword for hot tubs, and they couldn’t claim exclusive copyright.”
“It’s brilliant Remo was gutsy enough to put that on there,” said Sandy Morehead, customer experience director of Jason, referring to the company’s tagline. “He used to tell me it was the best money he ever spent.”
Paulo said: “You are selling the story, as well as a product, and that is a benefit when selling a commodity.” It made sense for the extroverted Paulo, who is the youngest of six children, to work front of house. “They were like, ‘We’re going to get him to tell the family story, and sell the product.’ My charge was make sure, beyond your generation, we carry forward your father’s legacy, and more importantly your family’s legacy, because it’s not just because of one man — it’s about the entire family.”
“We always used to joke that the Jacuzzi was my father’s seventh, and favorite, child, who could do no wrong,” said Paulo, who agreed to speak on his father’s behalf. “My father never said it out loud, but it was understood that family is the most important thing you have.”
This was why he took the top job at Jason in 2015 after years of working at an addiction center in Texas. “Besides,” he added, leaning forward and adopting an exaggerated Italian American accent, gesturing with his hand contracted like a closed tulip, “he made me an offer I couldn’t refuse.”
Two years ago, Paulo felt he had reached a crossroads in his role at the family firm. Half of the family had already set up business in other industries, including Jacuzzi Family Vineyards.
Finally, a decision was made, with Remo in agreement, to sell Jason International but keep shares in the company.
When Robert Easter, president of American Industrial Brands, which bought Jason in 2021, first considered buying the company, he wanted to test the product. He had two Jason whirlpool baths installed in his office headquarters in northern Florida and soaked in both. He said that many of their customers now purchase the indoor whirlpool spas for therapeutic reasons, such as the alleviation of severe eczema pain — a return to the Jacuzzi’s original purpose.
“Rome may have invented the bath, but it took a Jacuzzi to perfect it,” Easter said. “It’s an American story, but it’s also an international story.”
Ken, the boy who started it all, surprised doctors by living far beyond the age of 8, although he became wheelchair bound. He got married, earned a Master of Business Administration and worked for a time as a Jacuzzi manager in Italy. He died in 2017 at 75.
Easter was conscious that he was buying not just another brand but an entire heritage, and tried to put the family at ease.
This extended to the factory’s appearance. The front of the building was remodeled, and its faux stonework, veranda and locked wooden shutters over nonexistent windows resembles a villa. Built into the wall next to the front door is a colorful mosaic of the Jacuzzi family crest. Running through its center, almost like a spine, their self-appointed motto: “Aqua Vita Est.”
Water is life.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Saunas & hot tubs; Families & family life; Hydrotherapy; Design; Patents; Sons; 20th century; Engineers; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Patents Factories

Location: Italy; California; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Canada; Arkansas; Stocks And Bonds; Idaho; Quarantine (Life And Culture); Addiction (Psychology); Campaign Finance; Inventions And Patents; Deaths (Obituaries); Movies; Income Tax; Florida; Livestock; Nineteen Hundred Sixties; United States; Agriculture And Farming; Tesla Motors Inc; Tax Evasion; Corporations; Youth; Wilder, Billy; South America; California; Suits And Litigation (Civil); Switzerland; Language And Languages; Records And Achievements; Innovation; Hiring And Promotion; Europe; Cruises; Exercise; Quarantines; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Gold; Jacuzzi Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Chile; Italy; Families And Family Life; Texas; Nursing Homes; Wages And Salaries; Executives And Management (Theory); Rome (Italy); Fortune Cookies; Advertising And Marketing; Elderly; International Relations; Spas; Brazil; Berkeley (Calif); Lifestyle; Little Rock (Ark); Factories And Manufacturing; Pacino, Al; Lemmon, Jack; King, Rax; Copyrights And Copyright Violations; Labor And Jobs; Mexico; Magazines; Internal Revenue Service; Travel And Vacations; High Net Worth Individuals; Water; Names, Organizational; Hot Springs; Sports Illustrated; Wines; Appointments And Executive Changes; Luxury Goods And Services; Names, Personal; Books And Literature

Title: The Frothy Saga of the Jacuzzi Family

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Aug 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-08-12T17:05:37Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2849647556

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/frothy-saga-jacuzzi-family/docview/2849647556/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-08-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Ghostwriter's Own Stark Tale: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Egan, Elisabeth

Publication info: Egan, Elisabeth. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ghostwriters-own-stark-tale/docview/2841717184/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: From the driver's seat of her Tesla, Lara Love Hardin leveled a steady gaze at a house on a sun-bleached cul-de-sac in Aptos, Calif. and talked about the afternoon in November 2008 when she was handcuffed and yanked out the front door by a sheriff's deputy who told her she didn't deserve to be a mother.
"This whole street was filled with probably 10 sheriff's cars. The neighbors were all standing here," said Hardin, now 56. That day capped off a lengthy drug binge that cost her six years of sobriety and custody of her four sons, ages 3, 13, 16 and 17. Hardin's second husband was also arrested; their toddler went to emergency foster care.
"There was no more magical thinking," she said. "There was no more, 'I can talk my way out of this, I can spin a story.' It was just over."
Before her cataclysmic nosedive, Hardin owned a pet cemetery. She is now a literary agent and ghostwriter who has collaborated on several best-selling books, including ones by the Archbishop Desmond Tutu and the Dalai Lama. She represents Stanford professors. She has had lunch with Oprah.
Most people would have trouble pulling off such a dramatic pivot; if it appeared in a novel, an editor might flag it as unrealistic. Hardin wrote a memoir instead: "The Many Lives of Mama Love," which explains in heartfelt, humor-tinged prose how she built a bridge from her old life to her current one. The book comes out from Simon & Schuster on Aug. 1.
The neighbors who watched her arrest that day were the parents of her sons' friends, who'd brought over dinner when her youngest boy was born. They were also her first victims. Hardin had stolen a checkbook, credit cards, gift cards, mail and painkillers from their homes, pirated their Wi-Fi while gambling and smoking heroin, and appropriated one of their social security numbers to apply for an Amazon card she then used to buy a Kindle and parenting books. She'd also rifled through a hotel room and cars, searching for anything that would finance her next fix.
"It was just survival mode. If I didn't have the drugs, I would die," Hardin said.
During a 90-minute tour of her crime scenes -- it was only her second visit to her old home since her arrest -- Hardin recalled the preschool teacher who asked why she was lurking in a distant corner of the parking lot: "I think she knew. There's slightly haggard mom drop-off look, and then there's 'I'm living on heroin and Reese's Peanut Butter Cups."'
She pointed to the window of what had been her boys' playroom and the yard where they played basketball and piled into a hot tub. She talked about trick-or-treating on the cul-de-sac, how proud she'd been of her blue accent wall and carpeted master bath.
Her regret and remorse loomed over the day, sturdy as redwoods.
Growing up in the Boston suburbs, Hardin said, "I was the kid in the apartment, the poor kid with the single mom." After a childhood spent escaping into books, she was the first person in her family to go to college. She fled to the University of California, Santa Cruz, then to U.C. Irvine, where she got an M.F.A.
Here's what they don't teach you in grad school: If you charge $ 500 of groceries on a stolen card, then realize you forgot milk, the second transaction counts as a separate crime. Hardin pleaded guilty to 32 felonies and faced 27 years in prison. Thanks to a plea deal, she spent 10 months in county jail, a figure the sheriff's office was unable to confirm because, according to a public information officer, California law prohibits the disclosure of criminal histories of people who are no longer in custody.
Promotional copy for Hardin's memoir promises a jaunty-sounding account of "her slide from soccer mom to opioid addict to jailhouse shot caller." But, parked outside the Santa Cruz County Jail, a grim octagonal building where she attempted to end her own life, the view was decidedly more "Law & Order" than "Real Housewives." Even the rosebushes Hardin once earned the privilege of pruning looked defeated. Green signs bolted to walls and fences warned, "Unauthorized communication with jail inmates is unlawful."
Hardin survived incarceration by making her voice heard. She started writing -- essays, poems and short stories, plus legal and personal correspondence for fellow inmates. "I worry I could get in trouble for pretending to be other people," she writes of this side hustle, which earned her the nickname Mama Love. "I don't yet realize that what I am doing is honing my empathy -- the superpower of all great ghostwriters."
But the hardest part was yet to come. Once Hardin had served her time, she learned how hard it was to find a job and housing when she had to check a box indicating that she had a criminal record.
"There's over two million people sitting in prison right now who believe that they're paying for their crimes," Hardin said in a 2019 TEDx Talk. "What many of them don't realize is that they will pay for those crimes for a lifetime."
The same week Hardin applied for food stamps, she landed a job as a part-time assistant at Idea Architects, a literary agency founded by Doug Abrams, who represents Tutu and Mandela. He never checked her references.
"I decide that if I'm asked, I will reveal my background, but if not I won't volunteer the information," Hardin writes. "It's a don't ask, don't tell policy that I feel still jibes with my rigorous honesty policy."
Abrams said he had a sense that Hardin had "been through some hard times," but was immediately impressed by her talent. At the recommendation of a friend, he searched for her name online. An article in the Santa Cruz Sentinel described Hardin and her second husband as the "neighbors from hell," he found.
"Here is somebody that I've just hired to help me run the company and do the banking and the accounting," said Abrams. He was working from a home office; his children were on the premises; he was (understandably) concerned.
Abrams called Cynthia Chase, the director of the re-entry program Hardin completed before leaving jail.
"Doug said, 'Can you guarantee that she's not going to relapse?' I said, 'No. Anybody who says yes is lying; that's not how recovery works,"' said Chase in a phone interview. She is now Hardin's partner in the Gemma Project, a nonprofit that helps incarcerated women as they re-enter society. "What I can tell you is, unlike the average person off the street, Lara has so much more to lose."
After a "dark night of the soul," Abrams kept Hardin on the payroll for 12 years, a decision he considers one of the best he's ever made. She eventually became the co-CEO.
He said, "Her identity theft crime was also her identity translation superpower. She could get somebody's voice, mind and soul onto the page in a really powerful way."
Anthony Ray Hinton worked with Hardin on "The Sun Does Shine," his best-selling, Oprah-endorsed memoir about the decades he spent imprisoned in Alabama for three murders he didn't commit.
"I felt so comfortable telling Lara things I have never told anybody," he said in a phone interview. "Every time I would cry, Lara would stop and say, 'Hold on. Let's take a moment.' She didn't rush me to get back. I knew then that this is a gentle soul."
After writing 12 books for other people -- 11 of them male -- Hardin still wasn't sure if she was ready to tell her own story. She said, "Shame is so sticky. I was so used to keeping my secret."
After her TEDx Talk, Abrams encouraged her to get cracking on a proposal, which he sold in a five-way auction that ended in the high six figures. She used part of the advance to finish paying more than $ 15,000 in restitution for her crimes.
In early 2022, Hardin rented a house in Thailand, where she wrote a draft of the memoir in seven weeks. She said, "As I was writing the darkest chapters, thunder was shaking the villa." She appreciated the symbolism.
When Hardin sent the manuscript to Eamon Dolan, her editor at Simon & Schuster, he pointed out that "I wonder" appeared 43 times.
"It was me not committing to what I was going to say. It was hedging," Hardin said. "I dove back in."
In a phone interview, Dolan went on, "I don't want a memoir to be the means by which an author figures themselves out, and oftentimes that's the case. Lara had substantially figured herself out. She didn't hold back. She pushes herself harder than almost anyone else I know in my personal and professional life."
"The Many Lives of Mama Love" contains notes of "Wild," "Orange is the New Black" and "Catch Me if You Can." Hardin delves into her troubled childhood (her earliest memory is of her mother smashing her own head against a wall); two failed marriages; the escalation of her addiction from opiates to Valium to heroin; and her determination to rebuild a stable home for her sons, all four of whom lived with her first husband until she got back on her feet.
She also addresses the Twister-like demands of the criminal justice system. For instance, by the terms of her discharge, she had to be at drug court and a work-release program at the same time. This was challenging, even for someone with a car (albeit one that had trouble with hills).
"I was coming from a place of privilege, being a white woman, being middle class, having an education," Hardin said. "It was still almost impossible not to get sent back to jail. You're set up for failure at every turn."
In a phone interview, Hardin's son Ty Love, now 27, recalled the first time he visited his mother after she was arrested -- "the glass pane, the orange jumpsuit, the phone on the wall" -- and said, "I remember her putting on a brave face for our benefit."
Reading his mother's book took him back to that difficult time, Love said, but "it was also healing because I got to see my mom's perspective. I was happy to see her using herself as a light a little bit more. She's definitely one of my heroes."
As Hardin drove over a bridge into downtown Santa Cruz, she said she still dreams that her children are being taken from her. Pointing to a house on a hill on the other side of the San Lorenzo River, she said, "I remember being in jail and looking up there. I just wanted to be someone who lives in a house."
Now, once again, she does. Hardin is married to her "third-time's-a-charm husband." She doesn't use drugs. And last year, she opened her own agency. It's called True Literary.
"I picked the name because I like true stories you wouldn't believe if they were fiction," Hardin said. "And because I want to do what's true to me."
Photograph Lara Love Hardin, who once owned a pet cemetery, is also a literary agent. (C1); Top, Lara Love Hardin in Santa Cruz, Calif. Above left, Hardin, whose book comes out Tuesday. Hardin among the roses at the Santa Cruz County Jail, where she was once a prisoner. She cared for the roses when she was jailed there. "I want to plant my own garden in my own backyard," she writes in her memoir. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAYCE CLIFFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) This article appeared in print on page C1, C5.

Subject: Crime; Heroin; Autobiographies; Prisons; Ghostwriting; Prisoners; Criminal pleas; Books; State laws

Location: California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Simon & Schuster Inc; NAICS: 513130

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/24/books/lara-love-hardin-memoir-many-lives-mama-love.html

Title: A Ghostwriter's Own Stark Tale:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 26, 2023

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Feature

ProQuest document ID: 2841717184

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ghostwriters-own-stark-tale/docview/2841717184/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Risk From A.I. Isn't Just Existential: [Op-Ed]

Author: Morozov, Evgeny

Publication info: Morozov, Evgeny. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/risk-i-isnt-just-existential/docview/2831912787/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: In May, more than 350 technology executives, researchers and academics signed a statement warning of the existential dangers of artificial intelligence. "Mitigating the risk of extinction from A.I. should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war," the signatories warned.
This came on the heels of another high-profile letter, signed by the likes of Elon Musk and Steve Wozniak, a co-founder of Apple, calling for a six-month moratorium on the development of advanced A.I. systems.
Meanwhile, the Biden administration has urged responsible A.I. innovation, stating that "in order to seize the opportunities" it offers, we "must first manage its risks." In Congress, Senator Chuck Schumer called for "first of their kind" listening sessions on the potential and risks of A.I., a crash course of sorts from industry executives, academics, civil rights activists and other stakeholders.
The mounting anxiety about A.I. isn't because of the boring but reliable technologies that autocomplete our text messages or direct robot vacuums to dodge obstacles in our living rooms. It is the rise of artificial general intelligence, or A.G.I., that worries the experts.
A.G.I. doesn't exist yet, but some believe that the rapidly growing capabilities of OpenAI's ChatGPT suggest its emergence is near. Sam Altman, a co-founder of OpenAI, has described it as "systems that are generally smarter than humans." Building such systems remains a daunting -- some say impossible -- task. But the benefits appear truly tantalizing.
Imagine Roombas, no longer condemned to vacuuming the floors, that evolve into all-purpose robots, happy to brew morning coffee or fold laundry -- without ever being programmed to do these things.
Sounds appealing. But should these A.G.I. Roombas get too powerful, their mission to create a spotless utopia might get messy for their dust-spreading human masters. At least we've had a good run.
Discussions of A.G.I. are rife with such apocalyptic scenarios. Yet a nascent A.G.I. lobby of academics, investors and entrepreneurs counter that, once made safe, A.G.I. would be a boon to civilization. Mr. Altman, the face of this campaign, embarked on a global tour to charm lawmakers. Earlier this year he wrote that A.G.I. might even turbocharge the economy, boost scientific knowledge and "elevate humanity by increasing abundance."
This is why, for all the hand-wringing, so many smart people in the tech industry are toiling to build this controversial technology: not using it to save the world seems immoral.
They are beholden to an ideology that views this new technology as inevitable and, in a safe version, as universally beneficial. Its proponents can think of no better alternatives for fixing humanity and expanding its intelligence.
But this ideology -- call it A.G.I.-ism -- is mistaken. The real risks of A.G.I. are political and won't be fixed by taming rebellious robots. The safest of A.G.I.s would not deliver the progressive panacea promised by its lobby. And in presenting its emergence as all but inevitable, A.G.I.-ism distracts from finding better ways to augment intelligence.
Unbeknown to its proponents, A.G.I.-ism is just a bastard child of a much grander ideology, one preaching that, as Margaret Thatcher memorably put it, there is no alternative, not to the market.
Rather than breaking capitalism, as Mr. Altman has hinted it could do, A.G.I. -- or at least the rush to build it -- is more likely to create a powerful (and much hipper) ally for capitalism's most destructive creed: neoliberalism.
Fascinated with privatization, competition and free trade, the architects of neoliberalism wanted to dynamize and transform a stagnant and labor-friendly economy through markets and deregulation.
Some of these transformations worked, but they came at an immense cost. Over the years, neoliberalism drew many, many critics, who blamed it for the Great Recession and financial crisis, Trumpism, Brexit and much else.
It is not surprising, then, that the Biden administration has distanced itself from the ideology, acknowledging that markets sometimes get it wrong. Foundations, think tanks and academics have even dared to imagine a post-neoliberal future.
Yet neoliberalism is far from dead. Worse, it has found an ally in A.G.I.-ism, which stands to reinforce and replicate its main biases: that private actors outperform public ones (the market bias), that adapting to reality beats transforming it (the adaptation bias) and that efficiency trumps social concerns (the efficiency bias).
These biases turn the alluring promise behind A.G.I. on its head: Instead of saving the world, the quest to build it will make things only worse. Here is how.
A.G.I. will never overcome the market's demands for profit.
Remember when Uber, with its cheap rates, was courting cities to serve as their public transportation systems?
It all began nicely, with Uber promising implausibly cheap rides, courtesy of a future with self-driving cars and minimal labor costs. Deep-pocketed investors loved this vision, even absorbing Uber's multibillion-dollar losses.
But when reality descended, the self-driving cars were still a pipe dream. The investors demanded returns and Uber was forced to raise prices. Users that relied on it to replace public buses and trains were left on the sidewalk.
The neoliberal instinct behind Uber's business model is that the private sector can do better than the public sector -- the market bias.
It's not just cities and public transit. Hospitals, police departments and even the Pentagon increasingly rely on Silicon Valley to accomplish their missions.
With A.G.I., this reliance will only deepen, not least because A.G.I. is unbounded in its scope and ambition. No administrative or government services would be immune to its promise of disruption.
Moreover, A.G.I. doesn't even have to exist to lure them in. This, at any rate, is the lesson of Theranos, a start-up that promised to "solve" health care through a revolutionary blood-testing technology and a former darling of America's elites. Its victims are real, even if its technology never was.
After so many Uber- and Theranos-like traumas, we already know what to expect of an A.G.I. rollout. It will consist of two phases. First, the charm offensive of heavily subsidized services. Then the ugly retrenchment, with the overdependent users and agencies shouldering the costs of making them profitable.
As always, Silicon Valley mavens play down the market's role. In a recent essay titled "Why A.I. Will Save the World," Marc Andreessen, a prominent tech investor, even proclaims that A.I. "is owned by people and controlled by people, like any other technology."
Only a venture capitalist can traffic in such exquisite euphemisms. Most modern technologies are owned by corporations. And they -- not the mythical "people" -- will be the ones that will monetize saving the world.
And are they really saving it? The record, so far, is poor. Companies like Airbnb and TaskRabbit were welcomed as saviors for the beleaguered middle class; Tesla's electric cars were seen as a remedy to a warming planet. Soylent, the meal-replacement shake, embarked on a mission to "solve" global hunger, while Facebook vowed to "solve" connectivity issues in the Global South. None of these companies saved the world.
A decade ago, I called this solutionism, but "digital neoliberalism" would be just as fitting. This worldview reframes social problems in light of for-profit technological solutions. As a result, concerns that belong in the public domain are reimagined as entrepreneurial opportunities in the marketplace.
A.G.I.-ism has rekindled this solutionist fervor. Last year, Mr. Altman stated that "A.G.I. is probably necessary for humanity to survive" because "our problems seem too big" for us to "solve without better tools." He's recently asserted that A.G.I. will be a catalyst for human flourishing.
But companies need profits, and such benevolence, especially from unprofitable firms burning investors' billions, is uncommon. OpenAI, having accepted billions from Microsoft, has contemplated raising another $ 100 billion to build A.G.I. Those investments will need to be earned back -- against the service's staggering invisible costs. (One estimate from February put the expense of operating ChatGPT at $ 700,000 per day.)
Thus, the ugly retrenchment phase, with aggressive price hikes to make an A.G.I. service profitable, might arrive before "abundance" and "flourishing." But how many public institutions would mistake fickle markets for affordable technologies and become dependent on OpenAI's expensive offerings by then?
And if you dislike your town outsourcing public transportation to a fragile start-up, would you want it farming out welfare services, waste management and public safety to the possibly even more volatile A.G.I. firms?
A.G.I. will dull the pain of our thorniest problems without fixing them.
Neoliberalism has a knack for mobilizing technology to make society's miseries bearable. I recall an innovative tech venture from 2017 that promised to improve commuters' use of a Chicago subway line. It offered rewards to discourage metro riders from traveling at peak times. Its creators leveraged technology to influence the demand side (the riders), seeing structural changes to the supply side (like raising public transport funding) as too difficult. Tech would help make Chicagoans adapt to the city's deteriorating infrastructure rather than fixing it in order to meet the public's needs.
This is the adaptation bias -- the aspiration that, with a technological wand, we can become desensitized to our plight. It's the product of neoliberalism's relentless cheerleading for self-reliance and resilience.
The message is clear: gear up, enhance your human capital and chart your course like a start-up. And A.G.I.-ism echoes this tune. Bill Gates has trumpeted that A.I. can "help people everywhere improve their lives."
The solutionist feast is only getting started: Whether it's fighting the next pandemic, the loneliness epidemic or inflation, A.I. is already pitched as an all-purpose hammer for many real and imaginary nails. However, the decade lost to the solutionist folly reveals the limits of such technological fixes.
To be sure, Silicon Valley's many apps -- to monitor our spending, calories and workout regimes -- are occasionally helpful. But they mostly ignore the underlying causes of poverty or obesity. And without tackling the causes, we remain stuck in the realm of adaptation, not transformation.
There's a difference between nudging us to follow our walking routines -- a solution that favors individual adaptation -- and understanding why our towns have no public spaces to walk on -- a prerequisite for a politics-friendly solution that favors collective and institutional transformation.
But A.G.I.-ism, like neoliberalism, sees public institutions as unimaginative and not particularly productive. They should just adapt to A.G.I., at least according to Mr. Altman, who recently said he was nervous about "the speed with which our institutions can adapt" -- part of the reason, he added, "of why we want to start deploying these systems really early, while they're really weak, so that people have as much time as possible to do this."
But should institutions only adapt? Can't they develop their own transformative agendas for improving humanity's intelligence? Or do we use institutions only to mitigate the risks of Silicon Valley's own technologies?
A.G.I. undermines civic virtues and amplifies trends we already dislike.
A common criticism of neoliberalism is that it has flattened our political life, rearranging it around efficiency. "The Problem of Social Cost," a 1960 article that has become a classic of the neoliberal canon, preaches that a polluting factory and its victims should not bother bringing their disputes to court. Such fights are inefficient -- who needs justice, anyway? -- and stand in the way of market activity. Instead, the parties should privately bargain over compensation and get on with their business.
This fixation on efficiency is how we arrived at "solving" climate change by letting the worst offenders continue as before. The way to avoid the shackles of regulation is to devise a scheme -- in this case, taxing carbon -- that lets polluters buy credits to match the extra carbon they emit.
This culture of efficiency, in which markets measure the worth of things and substitute for justice, inevitably corrodes civic virtues.
And the problems this creates are visible everywhere. Academics fret that, under neoliberalism, research and teaching have become commodities. Doctors lament that hospitals prioritize more profitable services such as elective surgery over emergency care. Journalists hate that the worth of their articles is measured in eyeballs.
Now imagine unleashing A.G.I. on these esteemed institutions -- the university, the hospital, the newspaper -- with the noble mission of "fixing" them. Their implicit civic missions would remain invisible to A.G.I., for those missions are rarely quantified even in their annual reports -- the sort of materials that go into training the models behind A.G.I.
After all, who likes to boast that his class on Renaissance history got only a handful of students? Or that her article on corruption in some faraway land got only a dozen page views? Inefficient and unprofitable, such outliers miraculously survive even in the current system. The rest of the institution quietly subsidizes them, prioritizing values other than profit-driven "efficiency."
Will this still be the case in the A.G.I. utopia? Or will fixing our institutions through A.G.I. be like handing them over to ruthless consultants? They, too, offer data-bolstered "solutions" for maximizing efficiency. But these solutions often fail to grasp the messy interplay of values, missions and traditions at the heart of institutions -- an interplay that is rarely visible if you only scratch their data surface.
In fact, the remarkable performance of ChatGPT-like services is, by design, a refusal to grasp reality at a deeper level, beyond the data's surface. So whereas earlier A.I. systems relied on explicit rules and required someone like Newton to theorize gravity -- to ask how and why apples fall -- newer systems like A.G.I. simply learn to predict gravity's effects by observing millions of apples fall to the ground.
However, if all that A.G.I. sees are cash-strapped institutions fighting for survival, it may never infer their true ethos. Good luck discerning the meaning of the Hippocratic oath by observing hospitals that have been turned into profit centers.
Margaret Thatcher's other famous neoliberal dictum was that "there is no such thing as society."
The A.G.I. lobby unwittingly shares this grim view. For them, the kind of intelligence worth replicating is a function of what happens in individuals' heads rather than in society at large.
But human intelligence is as much a product of policies and institutions as it is of genes and individual aptitudes. It's easier to be smart on a fellowship in the Library of Congress than while working several jobs in a place without a bookstore or even decent Wi-Fi.
It doesn't seem all that controversial to suggest that more scholarships and public libraries will do wonders for boosting human intelligence. But for the solutionist crowd in Silicon Valley, augmenting intelligence is primarily a technological problem -- hence the excitement about A.G.I.
However, if A.G.I.-ism really is neoliberalism by other means, then we should be ready to see fewer -- not more -- intelligence-enabling institutions. After all, they are the remnants of that dreaded "society" that, for neoliberals, doesn't really exist. A.G.I.'s grand project of amplifying intelligence may end up shrinking it.
Because of such solutionist bias, even seemingly innovative policy ideas around A.G.I. fail to excite. Take the recent proposal for a "Manhattan Project for A.I. Safety." This is premised on the false idea that there's no alternative to A.G.I.
But wouldn't our quest for augmenting intelligence be far more effective if the government funded a Manhattan Project for culture and education and the institutions that nurture them instead?
Without such efforts, the vast cultural resources of our existing public institutions risk becoming mere training data sets for A.G.I. start-ups, reinforcing the falsehood that society doesn't exist.
Depending on how (and if) the robot rebellion unfolds, A.G.I. may or may not prove an existential threat. But with its antisocial bent and its neoliberal biases, A.G.I.-ism already is: We don't need to wait for the magic Roombas to question its tenets.
Evgeny Morozov, the author of "To Save Everything, Click Here: The Folly of Technological Solutionism," is the founder and publisher of The Syllabus and the host of the podcast "The Santiago Boys."
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page SR6, SR7.

Subject: Public transportation; Ideology; Costs; Startups; Autonomous vehicles; Profits; Adaptation; Capitalism; Neoliberalism; Intelligence; Bias

Business indexing term: Subject: Costs Startups Profits Capitalism

Location: Silicon Valley-California; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Theranos Inc; NAICS: 339113; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/30/opinion/artificial-intelligence-danger.html

Title: The Risk From A.I. Isn't Just Existential:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.6

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jul 2, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2831912787

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/risk-i-isnt-just-existential/docview/2831912787/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jul 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-07-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Digital Window Into the Downtown Scene: [Style Desk]

Author: Schacter, Cara

Publication info: Schacter, Cara. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digital-window-into-downtown-scene/docview/2824427202/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Gutes Guterman sat on an antique French farm bench in Pig Bar, a craft beer shop overlooking the scene-y slice of Lower Manhattan known as Dimes Square. Reaching for a gherkin, her hand in a lacy fingerless glove, she paused to gesture toward the former site of the Drunken Canal newspaper box.
"If you know, you know," she said.
It was a cool spring day, and Ms. Guterman, 26, was here to talk about her latest editorial venture: Byline, a website that went live on Thursday.
But first she had to address the end of her analog publication, The Drunken Canal, a print-only newspaper meant for people who have "made out at Clandestino," as Ms. Guterman put it in a TikTok video, referring to a bar at the center of the scene.
Ms. Guterman and a friend, Claire Banse, started the paper mid-lockdown. During its nearly two-year run, the unmarked box near Seward Park was frequently restocked to meet demand for what became a sort of downtown vade mecum. Cheeky and cryptic, it ran headlines like "Basic Things to Try This Fall (Based on Your Level of Depression)" and "New York Men You Will Ghost -- as Chocolates."
The writer Dean Kissick, a contributor to The Drunken Canal, summed up the ethos surrounding the publication in a 2020 tweet: "On 6th street around 11 last night we passed a girl kneeling on her stoop, facing the railings, reading a copy of the Drunken Canal with no socks on."
There were stickers: "Don't read The Drunken Canal. CALL YOUR MOM!" Vogue called it "downtown New York's paper of record for gossip." The Cut said it was an "unfiltered antidote to the careful, conservative vibe" that had become prevalent on the two founders' social media feeds.
"Not being online was important at that time," Ms. Guterman said, contemplating a charcuterie board. "We wanted to make something you could touch at a time when you weren't supposed to touch anything." She paused for prosciutto. "The fact that it was offline was a product of its time, as opposed to, like, a philosophy of living."
The final issue ran in November. In March, the paper told its 17,000 Instagram followers that The Drunken Canal had been part of a sociological study conducted by Harvard University (it wasn't really) and, also, to stay tuned for a sequel (really).
Getting a Byline
"A sequel, but not necessarily Part 2," is how Ms. Guterman described Byline at Pig Bar, a recently opened pub with studded leather floors, cured meats, Amish butter, Sabrett hot dogs, something with quinoa called a Dream Bowl and miscellaneous essentials like Visine eye drops and Camel Blues.
"The Drunken Canal was an amazing thing, but Byline is bigger," she said. "The big sister. No. Not the big sister. An aunt."
Over locally brewed raw honey ale, Ms. Guterman and her Byline co-founder, Megan O'Sullivan, 30, spoke of "creating a universe of content."
The new publication will be "unbridled" and "niche," Ms. Guterman said, giving the example of an article headlined "Monogamy in This Economy?," which proposes polyamory as a financial coping mechanism. Other potential rubrics include "Heel Hunter," an analysis of crowdsourced foot photos, and "Hot Girl Lit," a catalog of "hot writers."
Ms. O'Sullivan broke off a piece of Parmesan and described the void they planned to fill. What young writers need, she said, is "a place that feels informal and fun and champions the individual."
A regular contributor to The Drunken Canal, Ms. O'Sullivan -- Texas-born, categorically sweet -- credited the paper with jump-starting her freelance writing career at i-D, GQ and Vogue.
"The problem is that the individual still needs a platform to reach people," she said.
Ms. Guterman and Ms. O'Sullivan have assembled an advisory board that includes: Ben Dietz, a former longtime executive at Vice Media; Taj Alavi, the head of marketing at Spotify; and Trevor McFedries, creator of the robot pop star Lil Miquela. Madeline Montoya, an art director at Bloomberg Businessweek, is working as Byline's creative director.
In phone interviews, Ms. Montoya and Mr. Dietz said the site would resist easy categorization.
"It's easy to say it's a digital magazine, but -- this sounds silly -- I almost don't want to call it anything," Ms. Montoya said. "Everything's on the table."
Mr. Dietz talked about "fungibility," noting that it won't be restricted to text. "Think of a byline metaphorically," he said.
Byline, which shares in the same upstart spirit that gave rise to indie publications of previous generations (think: Spy, Might, Gawker), is making its debut at a terrible time in the digital media business. Millions of dollars from investors looking to cash in on the next big thing could not prevent Vice from filing for bankruptcy last month. Shortly before that, Vox and Insider laid off significant numbers of employees, and BuzzFeed shut down its news division.
"It's harder than ever if you're a young writer today," said Taylor Lorenz, who covers online culture for The Washington Post and has signed on as an adviser for Byline. "If you're starting out, who do you pitch for? There's no one left."
Ms. Lorenz, a former New York Times reporter who is writing a column for Byline, roll-called a number of defunct or diminished sites: "There was this middle ground when I was coming up -- xoJane, Jezebel, Rookie Mag, Hello Giggles, Man Repeller -- these midlevel media outlets where you could get your feet wet."
"It's all gone," she said, "and no one has built anything to replace it."
Ms. Guterman seemed unfazed. "Byline really feels like right time, right place," she said in a text on the day that Paper magazine laid off its staff and ceased publication. "It's like we're walking into a graveyard and building a bar."
'Love'
The idea of "fun" came up a lot during an April video call with the Byline design team.
"Do we want to have a fun mouse?" Ms. O'Sullivan asked.
Ms. Montoya said the site has enough "hee-hee" elements.
Ms. Guterman wanted the interface to be "sealed with a wink," she said, without being "something you need to wink about." Nothing "too doodle-y," she added, though there should be "some squiggles somewhere."
Chris Oka, a programmer, was asked if it would be possible to "make the hamburger something cuter than a hamburger" ("hamburger" being coder-speak for the navigation menu icon that is traditionally three stacked lines).
"Can it be an actual hamburger?" Ms. Guterman asked.
"I like the idea of, once in a while, you go to a story and it's like ... leaning," Ms. Montoya said, sharing her screen with the group to show a visual asset tipping over.
"Love," Ms. O'Sullivan said.
"And you're like ... why?" Ms. Montoya explained.
"I love that," Ms. Guterman said.
Mr. Oka suggested tilt-optional settings for users to input desired degree of image crookedness.
Sections needed streamlining. Should "On the Rise" be part of "Culture"? "Libations" gave Ms. O'Sullivan pause. She said, "If 'Libations' is in 'Culture,' and a lot of libation content is New York-based, then the question is: What is 'Culture' versus 'New York'?"
Ms. Guterman parsed it: "'Culture' is when it's, like, 'Absolut Vodka dropped a new flavor!' But 'New York' is when it's, like, 'New hot dog dropped at Parcelle!"'
Byline isn't a site for hard news. Ms. O'Sullivan said, "It's just like: 'Hey, what's up? I woke up this morning."'
Still, they have standards. Their submission inbox gets "a lot of rambling," Ms. Guterman said.
"Someone will email, 'I want to write about all of my boy troubles,"' she said. "And, well, maybe we don't really care about all your boy troubles." In that case, she said, they encouraged the writer to explore "boy troubles at large."
'Girlboss Juice'
On a hot May afternoon, the co-founders were talking corporate sponsorship over white wine, Diet Coke and mixed nuts at the Chelsea hotel. For now, contributors to Byline will be unpaid, but Ms. Guterman and Ms. O'Sullivan said they had been in talks with possible sponsors including the furniture company Knoll, the astrology app Co-Star and the kink-friendly dating app Feeld.
Wearing an emerald maxi dress and nude Gucci slides, Ms. Guterman clapped her hands. "We had a come-to-Jesus moment," she said. "We got rid of banner ads. I don't want to go on this gorgeous website and see banner ads."
"Eww," said Ms. O'Sullivan, who was wearing a big blazer and wide legged jeans.
The Drunken Canal didn't make money. It did, however, get the nutrition shake company Soylent to pay for a trip to Art Basel in Miami.
"It's kind of a muddled story," Ms. Guterman said of her fleeting relationship with the meal replacement company. "Basically, Claire and I wanted to go to Basel," she continued, referring to Claire Banse, the paper's co-founder. "I was like, 'Let's pretend Tesla flew us out.' Claire was like, 'No, no, let's pretend Soylent flew us out."'
Soylent struck Ms. Guterman as reachable. "I was like, 'I feel like I could get to Soylent,"' she said. Four hours later, she recalled, she was in a group chat with the company's founder, Rob Rhinehart.
"I said, 'I have an idea for you: Girlboss Juice. Soylent caters to your incel man on a computer, but Claire and I are going to Art Basel. We're not going to have time to eat. We're going to be running around to all these art fairs. We'll shill Soylent as "Girlboss Juice" to a whole new audience that doesn't believe Soylent works, and you'll fly us out to Basel.' They were like, 'We're in."'
Ms. O'Sullivan chimed in: "It honestly was how I became aware of Soylent."
The untapped market of the Clandestino cognoscenti watched on Instagram as the women chased shots with Soylent at Miami's hottest parties. Ms. Guterman recalled a DM from a friend who said he had started dreaming about Soylent.
"Synergy," Ms. Guterman said, is key. "The future of advertising is letting creatives be creative."
She also noted that she didn't want Byline to be "so digital." To keep the clunky charm of print and the deadline rush that she knew from her Drunken Canal experience, Byline will come out in "drops" -- a big dispatch at the top of the month, followed by weekly "trickles."
Issue 1 has 75 contributors from Seoul to San Diego ranging in age from 12 to 40-something. An article highlighted on the home page, written by Ms. Guterman, is headlined "Who Builds the Internet? Meet Wikipedia's Architects." Other pieces include a story on the rise of the selfie by Ms. Lorenz, and an installment of the Teenage Diaries column, "You Went to Prom, and Heaven Knows You're Miserable Now."
In search of child writers before the debut, Byline asked on Instagram: "Is your kid a genius?" Alas, Henry Jones, who turned 12 this week, is writing the column "Give the People What They Want." The title, he said, comes from the 1997 movie "Tomorrow Never Dies." It's what James Bond says before killing the bad guy with a petroleum drill. The line is apt for Byline "because the villain was like a big old media mogul," Henry explained in a phone interview, "so ... yeah."
Photograph Gutes Guterman, left, and Megan O'Sullivan, the founders of Byline. (ST8-ST9); Ms. Guterman said the content on Byline would be unbridled and niche. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANNA APISUKH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST9) This article appeared in print on page ST8, ST9.

Subject: Writers; Layoffs; Online advertising

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Online advertising

Location: New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/08/style/the-drunken-canal-byline-media.html

Title: A Digital Window Into the Downtown Scene:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 11, 2023

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Documenttype: News

ProQuest document ID: 2824427202

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digital-window-into-downtown-scene/docview/2824427202/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Can Federal Investment Persuade America To Go Green?: [Op-Ed]

Author: Appelbaum, Binyamin; Keller, Reva

Publication info: Appelbaum, Binyamin; Keller, Reva. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-federal-investment-persuade-america-go-green/docview/2824427145/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Electric vehicles are rare in Moses Lake, Wash., a small city in the fertile Columbia Basin about a three-hour drive east of Seattle. In that conservative farms-and-factories community, few people have the cash or the inclination. The only electric vehicle I saw during a two-day visit last month was a Tesla in the hotel parking lot.
Over the next few years, however, hundreds of Moses Lake residents are going to be entering the electric vehicle business. Two different companies, attracted by cheap hydropower, are opening plants there, each backed by $ 100 million in federal money, to produce a key ingredient for electric vehicle batteries.
The investment is part of the roughly half a trillion dollars the Biden administration is marshaling to transform an economy fueled by carbon into one fueled by clean, renewable energy, and it illustrates a gamble at the heart of that broader effort.
Instead of delivering electric vehicles, solar panels and other green technologies at the lowest possible cost, no matter their country of origin, the Biden administration is determined to use this opportunity to expand domestic manufacturing. And it is concentrating much of that effort in rural and Rust Belt communities, where reactionary politics have taken hold most strongly. The plan to combat global warming is also a bid for industrial revival and a transformed political landscape.
There is a real risk that President Biden's economic and political aims will come into conflict with his environmental goals. If domestic production results in higher costs, that could suppress demand for electric vehicles. Political opposition to renewable energy, on the rise in many conservative communities, could impede production. But giving people an economic stake in the transition to green energy may well be the nation's best chance to build a durable political consensus in favor of confronting global warming.
The novelist Upton Sinclair observed, "It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on his not understanding it."
Well, the opposite is true, too.
In Moses Lake, where one city official described the local version of the American dream to me as "house-boat-truck," it is possible to imagine that one day in the not-too-distant future, workers at the battery plants will be driving electric pickups.
The environmental case for investing 200 million tax dollars in Moses Lake is that gas-powered vehicles produce 24 percent of the nation's greenhouse gas emissions, and persuading consumers to drive electric vehicles instead is going to require a lot of batteries that are more powerful and more affordable than what's available today.
Right now, almost all electric vehicles are powered by batteries that use graphite to store electricity. Scientists have long known that silicon can hold more energy than graphite. But silicon swells as it charges, with results much like a soda can left in a freezer. The two companies building factories in Moses Lake, Sila Nanotechnologies and Group14 Technologies, make specially modified forms of silicon that solve the swelling problem. Batteries using the special sand can propel vehicles up to 20 percent farther than existing batteries. Recharging is a lot faster, too.
At Group14's first plant, outside Seattle, trays of carbon that look like badly burned brownies emerge from a long oven and are milled into a powder so fine that a thimbleful could coat a hockey rink. The key to Group14's technology is that each of those tiny grains of carbon is about two-thirds air, like a very porous sponge or a coral reef. The grains are then placed in a chamber of silane, a gaseous form of silicon, which fills about half of their interiors, leaving room for expansion when the silicon is charged. The resulting black powder is shipped to battery plants, where it will be painted onto thin strips of metal and stacked inside batteries.
Sila, which uses a different process to reach similar ends, has its own small factory at its Bay Area headquarters. Together, the two companies make enough powder to power a few hundred vehicles per year. The factories in Moses Lake, which together will cost more than $ 700 million, will each produce enough for about 200,000 vehicles a year. Group14 has signed Porsche as an investor and a customer; Sila is working with Mercedes-Benz.
Both companies say they would have moved ahead even without direct federal funding. But the money does mean that they can grow faster. Rick Luebbe, the chief executive of Group14, said the company was able to raise additional capital on the back of the federal money, allowing it to build two production lines in Moses Lake rather than one. "It's a validation for people who want to work for us, for people who want to support us, and for customers," he said.
It would take 400 more factories the size of the ones in Moses Lake to make enough silicon to power all the vehicles produced in an average year. But the government isn't betting just on silicon. It is simultaneously funding an even bigger expansion of graphite manufacturing at factories in Georgia, Louisiana and Tennessee. It's also backing companies pursuing other alternatives to graphite, and other potential breakthroughs in battery technology. The government is trying to pick winners only in the sense that it wants the next big idea in batteries to be made in the United States.
Backing domestic production marks a break with decades of federal economic policy that treated low prices as the primary goal, and imports as the best way to achieve that goal. In 2005, for example, the government introduced tax credits for the installation of solar panels, without restrictions on the country of origin. Over the next six years, imports of Chinese solar panels increased to $ 2.7 billion a year, up from $ 21 million a year.
Chinese companies also have raced ahead in the market for electric vehicle batteries, but the Biden administration is hoping to leapfrog them by investing in a new generation of ideas. China controls three-quarters of the world's supply of graphite, but "our technology requires sand and energy," said Gene Berdichevsky, the chief executive of Sila. "Those can be sourced in quite a lot of places."
The federal government is also rigging the competition against Chinese producers. Under the Inflation Reduction Act, passed last year, buyers of electric vehicles are eligible for tax credits of up to $ 7,500. But as of April 18, the credit is available only if at least half of the value of the vehicle's battery was produced in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and at least 40 percent of the minerals were produced in the United States or by an approved list of allies. Over the next few years, those requirements will gradually rise to 100 percent for the battery and 80 percent for the minerals.
Other subsidies could take an additional $ 9,000 off the price of cars with American batteries. The incentives are enough that for the first time, some electric vehicles are now cheaper than comparable gas-powered cars.
The residents of Moses Lake are eagerly anticipating the benefits.
Adan Lopez, 20, is studying physics at Big Bend Community College in Moses Lake. He isn't sure whether he wants to stay in the area. "Jobs are kind of limited around here," he said. "If you want to do anything, people have to go to Spokane or Seattle."
Brant Mayo, executive director of the Grant County Economic Development Council, said the Moses Lake region has been chasing factories since the early 1990s to bring higher-paying jobs to the area. "We want our kids and our grandkids, if they want to be in the area, to have an opportunity to do whatever they want here," he said.
Factories also attract factories. After Microsoft opened a data center in the nearby town of Quincy, a company that makes plastic conduits for data centers opened a 50-employee operation. Three electrical firms also have opened offices.
The potential costs of trying to orchestrate economic development are less obvious and less concentrated, and thus easier to ignore. But they could easily outweigh the benefits. Government investment can allow companies to take risks that investors wouldn't support, but it also can insulate companies from market discipline, propping up underperforming technologies and preventing better ideas from gaining traction. Preserving factory jobs also is expensive, and higher costs could slow the adoption of electric vehicles. It costs about twice as much to build a battery plant in the United States as in China, according to one recent estimate.
The urgency of global warming means that the Biden administration may be gambling with time it can't afford to lose.
Moses Lake, population 26,040, was created by federal investment. The area was a sparsely populated desert until the damming of the Columbia River began in the 1930s. The Democratic Party's vision of cheap power and water created one of the nation's most productive farming regions, famous for its apples and potatoes. But the city and the surrounding region are now "bright red," in the words of Steve Starr, the lonesome chairman of the local Democratic Party.
Mr. Starr is skeptical that this new season of federally funded economic growth will make a difference. Other issues loom larger. At the county fairgrounds, the Democrats have a building with a big sign out front reminding visitors about the government's role in the region's history. The Republican Party's building, just across the way, has a large sign declaring opposition to abortion.
Mr. Starr also says the government's role in the current factory boom is easy for people to ignore. Instead of public works, the government is backing private companies. The sign in front of Group14's future factory doesn't have any mention of federal funding.
"Without the federal government this would be an uninhabited desert, but you won't hear Republicans here say that," Mr. Starr said. "Are people going to accept the idea that Biden, through federal government initiatives, is helping our economy? My answer is, sadly, probably not."
Some Republicans insist they don't want the help. The congressman who represents Moses Lake, Dan Newhouse, joined all but a few of his Republican colleagues in voting against the 2021 legislation that is providing funding for the battery plants, and against the 2022 bill, the Inflation Reduction Act, that is providing an even larger block of funding for similar projects. In April, he voted for the House debt ceiling bill that would have rolled back much of that federal funding.
Electric vehicles, in particular, are becoming a partisan battleground. Republican lawmakers in Wyoming introduced a resolution this year calling for the state to ban the sale of electric vehicles by 2035 to "ensure the stability of Wyoming's oil and gas industry." The resolution, which did not pass, directed Wyoming's secretary of state to send a copy to the governor of California, which has a law banning the sale of new gas-powered vehicles starting in 2035.
In Moses Lake, the most likely flashpoint is access to power. The cheap, green electricity from two Columbia River dams is still the community's greatest asset and it remains under public control. It is the most important reason Group14 and Sila both chose to build factories here.
But there is not enough of it. The local utility, the Grant County Public Utility District, says that it expects to begin buying electricity from outside the county by 2025. For the battery plants, or other factories, to grow here, the community is going to have to invest in expanding its supply of renewable energy.
Richard Hanover grew up in Moses Lake and now works as the director of development at the Port of Moses Lake, which controls much of the region's industrial land. When he was a child, he said, it didn't seem possible Moses Lake would ever have a chance at the kind of prosperity that is now within reach.
"It wasn't even possible when I started here nine years ago," he said.
Now it is. Will Moses Lake seize the opportunity?
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
The lead writer on economics and business for the Times editorial board.
Photograph Above, from top: Carbon chunks at a Group14 plant in Woodinville, Wash., that will be ground into powder and injected with silicon; a bat- tery cell assembly line at the company's research site; working at the future home of a Group14 plant in Moses Lake. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REVA KELLER) This article appeared in print on page SR10.

Subject: Silicon; Graphite; Alternative energy; Costs; Power; Carbon; Electric vehicles; Renewable resources; Political parties; Global warming; Economic development; Manufacturing; Tax credits; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Costs Renewable resources Economic development Manufacturing Tax credits Factories

Location: United States--US; China

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/10/opinion/federal-investment-green-energy-global-warming.html

Title: Can Federal Investment Persuade America To Go Green?:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.10

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 11, 2023

column: Binyamin Appelbaum

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2824427145

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-federal-investment-persuade-america-go-green/docview/2824427145/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Casey DeSantis Is Your Obsession. Jill Biden's Mine.: [Op-Ed]

Author: Bruni, Frank

Publication info: Bruni, Frank. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/casey-desantis-is-your-obsession-jill-bidens-mine/docview/2824190334/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: From the breathless media coverage of Ron DeSantis's recent visits to Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, you could easily get the impression that:
Voting starts in approximately five minutes.
You're really watching a new Netflix series about a body snatcher's attempts to pantomime just enough humanity to amass power on Planet Earth.
The Florida governor's entire candidacy hinges on his wife, Casey DeSantis.
She could be RuPaul at a drag ball for all the attention she's getting. She could be the sorcerer in Disney's "Fantasia" for all the magic journalists are primed for: When she's with her grumpy guv, will her sunshine melt his ice? Can her aptitude for small talk make up for his allergy to it? And when she trots out the couple's three children, ages 3 to 6, will voters be reminded of and charmed by her husband's youth? (He's 44 to Donald Trump's 76.)
Those are the wrong questions about Casey DeSantis. And they reflect how wrongly we in the media often approach the subject of political spouses in general.
We wildly overestimate their potential impact on a politician's image. I've spoken to many, many voters over the years, and I've emerged from exactly zero of those conversations thinking: "Wow, Barack is going to owe Michelle for a few hundred of this state's votes." Or: "Tipper just swung that state out of Al's win column."
Back when Bill Clinton was running for the White House, some pundits cast Hillary Clinton as a poison pill with voters in the middle. Last I checked, he won two presidential elections in a row.
And I challenge you to find me one voter, just one, whose pro or con decision about Trump hinged on his third wife. Where, by the way, is she? And how, pray tell, did she assist his 2016 victory? I'd forgotten all about her until she came up the other day in a Daily Beast headline that called Casey DeSantis "the Walmart Melania." Better than "the Bergdorf Melania," which would be redundant. It would also summon thoughts of a certain dressing room and would disregard Republicans' populist conversion. They're now all about the little guy and gal! Well, except when they're doling out tax cuts.
But while we tend to exaggerate the importance of what a spouse does in public, we sometimes shortchange the relevance of what a spouse does in private. That's where and how Casey DeSantis probably matters most.
By many accounts, including an especially thorough profile of her by Michael Kruse in Politico recently, she's "uncommonly involved" (Kruse's words) in all aspects of her husband's career: strategy, policy, the friends-and-enemies scorecard. He doesn't simply turn to her in a dutiful, chivalrous, "And what do you think, honey?" fashion. She's no afterthought. She's the first thought. And the second thought. And the very last thought.
The political spouse I observed most closely, Laura Bush, was much more consequential behind the scenes than in front of the cameras. She in fact recoiled from the spotlight. But George W.'s aides relished her presence on the campaign trail with him because she calmed him, grounded him, took the bluster out of him whenever he was getting blustery.
She read the news coverage about him so that he didn't have to, and she would tell him what he needed to know but not what would make him fume pointlessly at us journalists in the back of the plane. That was her impact -- not the way she dressed, not how she styled her hair, not the degree of verve or humor with which she delivered public remarks when she consented to do that. She regulated his emotional temperature.
I get the impression that Jill Biden does likewise with Joe, to an extent that could be absolutely critical to what happens in November 2024.
That Jill gets a say and gets her way was clear in a priceless anecdote that she included in her 2019 memoir, "Where the Light Enters." She recalled being by the pool and hearing her husband's political advisers, who were inside with him, trying to persuade him to enter the 2004 presidential race. She and Joe had ruled that out.
"A Sharpie caught my eye," she wrote. "I drew NO on my stomach in big letters, and marched through the room in my bikini."
President Biden is 80. It's not ageist to observe that over the months between now and Election Day, he must pace himself carefully, watch his health closely, do all he can to decrease the odds of any stammer or stumble that will be turned against him. He must stay focused and optimistic, which means tuning out as much of the Hunter Biden melodrama as he can. Rest is vital. Mood is pivotal.
And no one -- not Ron Klain, not Mike Donilon, not Anita Dunn -- can help with that the way Jill can. So, you go ahead and put Walmart Melania under a microscope. I'll be over here putting White House Jill on a pedestal.
Forward this newsletter to friends ...
... and they can sign up for themselves here. It's published every Thursday.
Words Worth Sidelining: Canine Edition
My computers' operating systems demand to be updated yearly, it seems. Several of my apps cry out for renewal every few months. So how is it that archaic sayings hang around for not just decades but centuries past the point of any coherence?
I direct you to the doggedness of phrases that invoke dogs. I can't square them with the ways of my dog, Regan, and of most of the other American pooches I know.
It's still said that someone "works like a dog." How many of the dogs around you do arduous physical labor -- do any physical labor -- or keep even a 9-to-5 schedule of other tasks? Barking at the Amazon delivery person doesn't count.
A hypochondriacal friend of mine always announces: "I'm sick as a dog!" In my experience, dogs are significantly hardier than we humans. No cold compresses, no hot tea, no Purell, no Pepto Bismol.
"A dog's life" means a harsh one, never mind the Instagram parade of golden retrievers in platinum digs, French bulldogs in haute couture and Siberian huskies that will never come within a snowball's toss of a sled (or of Siberia).
And those furry social-media stars nosh on treats, not one another. So the phrase "dog-eat-dog world" baffles me. They're dachshunds, not the Donner party.
Also, I detect, at least in English, some semantic inequality between dogs and cats, with the former starring in more negative metaphors ("lie down with dogs, get up with fleas," "call off the dogs") than the latter do.
To wit: Donald Trump so frequently took a canine tack with his insults that Philip Rucker wrote an entire article in The Washington Post about how, in Trump's "singular lexicon, there is no more vicious put-down than likening an adversary to a dog." "Choked like a dog," "fired like a dog," "sweat like a dog" -- Trump had used all of those and more.
Cats got off easy. Don't they always? If someone calls you "the cat's meow," "the cat's pajamas" or a "cool cat," you have cause to purr. A "fat cat" indulging in a "cat nap" has anything but "a dog's life."
That said, I cringe at hearing that someone "let the cat out of the bag." What sadist almost suffocated the kitty in the first place?
Let's retire that phrase, along with the digs about dogs above. While we're at it, let's rethink "kill two birds with one stone." I'd rather let the feathered creatures live. And I'm not much for hurling heavy objects, just as Regan isn't much for fetching heavy, medium-weight or even light ones. She can't be bothered with all that back-and-forth when there are soft patches of grass on which to sun herself. It's a dog's life.
"Words Worth Sidelining" is a recurring newsletter feature.
For the Love of Sentences
In The Washington Post, Mattie Kahn took issue with the word "fearless" being applied so often and fashionably to young women today: "We haven't really created a generation of unflinching girls. With our broken world, we've scared them into action." (Thanks to Olga Adler of Delray Beach, Fla., for nominating this.)
Also in the Post, Paul Waldman took the measure of Mike Pence's appeal beyond the Republican primaries: "Voters are not clamoring for someone to tell them why we need to cut taxes for the rich and outlaw abortion, delivered in the tone of a stepdad explaining why you're being grounded for the rest of the school year." (Adam Schmuckler, Olney, Md., and Alfred Reid, Durham, N.C.)
And David Von Drehle used the occasion of the P.G.A.-LIV golf merger to reflect on the odd career of a golfer centrally involved in it: "Greg Norman with a four-stroke lead in a major tournament was like a cat leaping onto a narrow shelf of Limoges. You just covered your eyes and waited for the sound of disaster." (Christopher Dodson, Montville, N.J., and Joe Bohr, Park City, Utah, among others) Von Drehle's article also had the clever observation that "golf was for decades -- for centuries -- the province of people who cared about money but never spoke of it openly. Scots. Episcopalians. Members of the Walker and Bush families. People who built huge homes then failed to heat them properly. People who drove around with big dogs in their old Mercedes station wagons. People who greeted the offer of a scotch and soda by saying, 'Well, it's 5 o'clock somewhere!"' (Jessica N. Lange, Beavercreek, Ohio)
In The Times, Kurt Streeter reassessed the PGA's onetime pose of rectitude in light of the merger: "The PGA Tour presented itself as the guy who calls a penalty on himself if he accidentally moves his ball a quarter-inch. Turns out it was the guy who makes a double-bogey and marks it down as a par." (John Daly, Richmond, Va., and Doug Hardy, Concord, Mass., among others)
Also in The Times, Ezra Klein marveled at how little, in the end, Republicans extracted from the debt-ceiling standoff: "Threatening default -- and we came within days of it this time -- in order to get a deal like this is like threatening to detonate a bomb beneath the bank unless the teller gives you $ 150 and a commemorative mug." (Will Rothfuss, Stroudsburg, Penn., and Anita Moran, San Francisco, among many others)
In The New Yorker, Amanda Petrusich examined Paul Simon's newest album, "Seven Psalms," a deeply spiritual reflection on human life: "Outside religious spaces, posing the big questions -- how we arrived here; what we're supposed to do with the time we've been allotted -- is generally considered the terrain of undergraduate philosophy majors and people who have gravely misjudged their tolerance for edibles." (Helen Pelletier, Portland, Maine, and Michael O'Keefe, San Juan Cosala, Mexico, among many others)
An article in The Economist assessed DeSantis's apparent reticence and long delay before he squarely took on Donald Trump: "It is as if Brutus had overslept on the Ides of March, giving Julius Caesar a chance to put on his armor, but had tried to proceed with his hit job all the same. The plot to overthrow Mr. Trump, which once seemed plausible, now looks forlorn." (Howard Stambor, Seattle, and Harry Gerecke, Vashon, Wash.)
And in GQ, Alex Pappademas had a grand time profiling the musician Dave Matthews and noted that when "someone tells you they don't like Dave Matthews, they're really voicing a deep tribal aversion to the type of person they picture when they picture a Dave Matthews fan -- spiritually incurious trustafarians, pumpkin-spice basics, fleece-vest I.P.A. bros, or whichever straw-man stereotype offends their imagination most." Matthews owns a Tesla "but he's a little embarrassed by it -- specifically the gull-wing doors, because it's basically impossible to be a rock star and get out of a car with gull-wing doors without looking like an asshole, especially if you're wearing sunglasses." (Kate Schultz, Madison, Wis.)
To nominate favorite bits of recent writing from The Times or other publications to be mentioned in "For the Love of Sentences," please email me here and include your name and place of residence.
On a Personal Note
The presidential race is heating up, even at this early stage. The war between Ukraine and Russia continues to rage. Robert Kennedy Jr. is cyber-hobnobbing with Elon Musk, in a convergence of runaway vanity and ruinous nonsense that's scarily emblematic of the United States circa 2023.
But the article that everybody I know was talking about most over the past week was Tim Alberta's profile in The Atlantic of Chris Licht, who had been in charge at CNN for 13 baffling and tumultuous months and, it turned out, was days away from being canned.
That's largely because my circle of acquaintance is bloated with people in the news business. We can navel-gaze with the best of them. But it also reflects the richness of the portrait of Licht that Alberta deftly paints.
His article (behind a paywall, which may or may not block you) is about more than CNN, more than Licht. It's about tendencies and traps that many people have skirted or tumbled into. It's about confidence bleeding into grandiosity, defensiveness edging into reclusiveness, bluntness becoming coldness. It examines the lies we tell ourselves about the deals and compromises we've made.
The key scene, for me, is the one in which Licht huffs, puffs and perspires at an elite gym with a quirky personal trainer. He hoists a heavy pole. He does a side plank. He pushes a weighted sleigh. He tells Alberta, who's there, "Zucker couldn't do this shit." That's Jeff Zucker, who ran CNN before him.
What's the point of that statement? And why is Licht letting Alberta watch him work out? One answer -- which I can relate to as a large person who struggles to lose weight -- is that Licht was 226 pounds three years ago but 178 when Alberta spent time with him. He's surely proud of that.
But what's also happening in that scene -- what apparently happened during the whole of Licht's time at CNN -- is that someone who built his career making other people (Joe Scarborough, Stephen Colbert, Gayle King) look good is overly relishing his moment in the spotlight. He's forgetting what his job is. He's losing sight of the larger picture.
It's a recognizable human error. And it's a cautionary tale with resonance far beyond the world of journalism.
Source photograph by Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Getty Images
This article appeared in print on page A19.

Subject: Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Voters; Cats

People: Trump, Donald J; Biden, Jill

Company / organization: Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/08/opinion/desantis-biden-casey-jill.html

Title: Casey DeSantis Is Your Obsession. Jill Biden's Mine.:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.19

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jun 10, 2023

column: Frank Bruni

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2824190334

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/casey-desantis-is-your-obsession-jill-bidens-mine/ docview/2824190334/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Modern Country Star in a Hybrid Mold: [Arts and Leisure Desk]

Author: Caramanica, Jon

Publication info: Caramanica, Jon. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/modern-country-star-hybrid-mold/docview/2813109420/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: NASHVILLE -- The spoils of fame are coming fast for the emerging country star Bailey Zimmerman. The Texas singer-songwriter Cody Johnson gave him a standing offer to come ride horses at his ranch. The Nickelback frontman Chad Kroeger flew him on a private plane to his home in Canada to spend some time writing songs. The guitar whiz Gary Clark Jr. and the singing ex-rapper Jelly Roll partied with him backstage at the CMT Awards.
Recently, Kid Rock had him over for dinner at his ranch outside Nashville.
"He freestyled for us at dinner and we went in and he showed us his pool and his bowling alley and all his guns," Zimmerman said last month, still a little awe-struck, enthusiastically sipping a Bacardi and Coke at the bar at Topgolf. "He let me do a TikTok in one of the bars!"
Zimmerman, 23, is boisterous and amiable, openhearted and still a little stupefied by it all. Only two and a half years have passed since he first posted a clip of himself singing one verse of an original song -- his first ever -- to TikTok, went to bed, and woke up to a million views. Now, he's got the No. 1 song at country radio, "Rock and a Hard Place"; is the first opening act on the current Morgan Wallen stadium tour; and is on the cusp of releasing his debut album on Friday, the comfortably bruising and appealingly bruised "Religiously. The Album."
[Video: Watch on YouTube.]
But this is how Nashville works now, at least sometimes. Social media is increasingly dictating how country music is evolving, and sometimes that's in unexpected, lightly chaotic directions.
"I never wanted to be, like, 'country,"' Zimmerman said earlier that day, at the East Nashville home belonging to his producer Austin Shawn, where he records all of his music, cutting vocals in a closet. "Whatever I want to make that day, that's what I want to be. Some days you'll see me in penny loafers and then sometimes you'll see me in Air Force 1s."
He was indeed wearing Air Force 1s, gray ones. (He started sporting them -- he tries not to wear the same pair twice -- when his manager suggested he needed to step up from the Vans he used to favor.) He'd paired them with a lightly distressed denim jacket and jeans. His longish, tousled hair was swept back under a black cap with a BZ logo (which he'd later sign and give to the Topgolf staff for a charity auction) and a BZ diamond pendant on a chain around his neck.
"You know, I can go to a farm and put boots on and take care of 500 head of cattle and do all that," he said. "But I just don't, like, act 'country' I guess. You know what I'm saying?"
Zimmerman is a modern country star in a hybrid mold. He has a rigorously raspy voice, and sings with power he's mainlined from his primary influences, many of which are rock acts: Nickelback, Three Days Grace, Foo Fighters and, most crucially, the Southern-rock bruisers Hinder -- bands that specialize in puffed-chest emoting. Zimmerman's favorite band is the melodic hard rock outfit Tesla. (He recently enthusiastically posted a video online of the frontman Jeff Keith singing the hook of "Rock and a Hard Place.")
At Topgolf, the music was blasting loudly and the songs Zimmerman had the most electrified reaction to were the pop-punk anthem "My Own Worst Enemy" by the sleaze-rock band Lit, and the unruly glam plosion "Time to Pretend" by MGMT.
But he is also clearly an inheritor of Nashville's recent crop of shaggy-at-the-edges superstars -- singers like the powerhouse Luke Combs, or the genre's reigning titan, Wallen, who have collectively iterated beyond the boyfriend and gentleman country of the mid-2010s, and whose songwriting and commitment to genre mark them as somewhat more traditional than the bro-country breakouts of the early 2010s.
Shawn said that "the door has been opened" by artists like Combs and Wallen, "even people like Zach Bryan and Tyler Childers." Shawn, who produced or co-produced every song on the album, added, "Is he a country singer? Or a rock singer? Or a folk/Americana singer with a little bit of a gritty edge?"
Those lines are blurry in Nashville's contemporary mainstream. Given that pre-existing context, Zimmerman has floated to the top of Nashville's rising class with remarkable ease and speed. The ascent has been even more remarkable given his starting point. Zimmerman is from Louisville, Ill., a town in the Southern part of the state with a population of just over 1,000 and proximate to not much. ("A two-hour drive to get to a mall to go school shopping.") His father owned a trucking business and repossessed vehicles; his mother owned the family car dealership with Zimmerman's grandfather and uncle.
When Zimmerman struck out on his own, he took on some of the hardest physical labor available: working on natural gas pipelines in West Virginia. "The gnarliest most chaotic work," he said. "Screaming, yelling, breaking stuff. Hard hats, walkie talkies, whatever they had in their hands, they'd chuck it at you. Like, you'd walk home with black eyes, bruises from people chucking drinks on you and just belittling you." On one particularly unpleasant assignment, he was fired in a series of events that included a coffee thrown in his face, a broken shovel wielded as a weapon and a brawl in the living room of his abode that smashed the coffee table.
Even still, he maintains a soft spot for the work. "I was so into pipeline, man. Like, I loved working hard. I've always loved working hard. Like, I loved getting my hands dirty and coming home and having oil on my face," he said. "I just felt like, man, there's no possible way I'm going to ever make it out of this. I'm going to be 65, 70 years old, hips broken, back broken, still have nothing to show for it."
He moved home and began custom building lifted trucks -- pickup trucks with super tall wheels -- and posted videos about them on TikTok, eventually amassing a respectable 60,000 followers. In his earliest TikToks, his hair is prim and short, and he has braces on his teeth.
One day in late 2020 Gavin Lucas, a high school acquaintance who wrote songs, heard Zimmerman singing on Snapchat and was impressed. For a couple of weeks, they fiddled around and eventually, on Christmas night, wrote a verse for a new song. The resulting TikTok changed both of their lives -- Zimmerman resigned from his union the following day. Within a couple of weeks, they had finished the song -- the rowdy country-rock number "Never Comin' Home" -- Googled information on how to record songs, and driven to Nashville to cut it in a real studio, splitting the $ 3,000 cost. (Zimmerman borrowed his half from his mother.)
Attention came at a disorienting speed. When Zimmerman first met Chief Zaruk, an industry insider who would become one of his managers, "I thought he was the mayor of Nashville, 'cause that's how everybody introduced him on the Zoom call," Zimmerman said. "I'm just like, man, why is the mayor of Nashville trying to sign me? This makes no sense."
But the kismet continued. "Morgan was one of the first artists I ever met. He was walking up to Big Loud just randomly," Zimmerman said, referring to offices for the label and management company. "And he was like, 'Hey man, I'm a big fan of your song 'Fall in Love.' And I'm like, holy crap!" He continued, "Morgan has just been such a big part of my life since 2015, since 16, 'Up Down,' 'Chain Smokin" and 'Spin You Around.' All that stuff has just been my life."
Last October, he released his debut EP, "Leave the Light On," which remains in the Top 50 of the all-genre Billboard album chart. This is owing to his success at radio, but also to Zimmerman's relentless presence on TikTok and Instagram. He is his own best promoter, and his success underscores how even Nashville, the most hidebound of music industry towns, is increasingly powerless against the tide of social media.
Lucas said that Zimmerman's attitude has been crucial to the speed of his success. "I love how excited he gets and how much he jumps the gun," he said of Zimmerman's no-brakes ascent. "I don't think we'd be where we are today if Bailey wasn't that enthusiastic. I know we wouldn't."
"The TikTok and the Instagram, me doing that every day, that is the brand, of course," Zimmerman said. "That is the company. And now it's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, label, hold on. I now have an avenue of my own to make me successful by myself." That said, TikTok provides, and TikTok takes away, as seen in Zimmerman's first true public fumble -- a viral video of him singing woefully off-pitch at a recent concert. But rather than duck it, Zimmerman posted through the embarrassment, apologizing for his misstep and taking his lumps with a sense of humor and as much enthusiasm as when he posts about a new song.
"I heard a saying the other day, and I'm living by that now," he said. "Dogs don't bark at parked cars."
And so he'll keep speeding. Sometimes literally, in the white 2023 Corvette with a red interior that he bought in cash after "Fall in Love" went to No. 1 at country radio, his first splurge. (He also has an even taller truck than his old one that's in the shop being built to spec.)
"I try to keep my sins to a limit, of course, always," he said. "But of course, dude, I cuss every day. I drink, I smoke, I harm my temple." And so he's also taken to the trappings of being a star who needs to perform at a high level -- vitamin IV drips, injections of the anti-inflammatory treatment N.A.D.+ and cryotherapy. He's put both of his parents on his payroll, and is trying to encourage his uncle Brent, whose guitar Zimmerman used to practice on as a child, to become a full-time songwriter.
Unexpected things keep happening to him -- most recently, it's the chaotic cross-genre collaboration on the soundtrack of the upcoming "Fast X" film "Won't Back Down," with the Irish crooner Dermot Kennedy and the prolific rapper YoungBoy Never Broke Again, making for a trio of blood-letter vocalists -- but Zimmerman still prefers to operate as if there are no guarantees.
He recalled playing one of his first songs for his father. "You need to chase this," he said his father told him.
"He's like, 'I wasted my whole life not chasing nothing, man. You need to chase something."'
Photograph Bailey Zimmerman, left, and above at the Stagecoach Festival in Indio, Calif., last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC RYAN ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; MONICA SCHIPPER/GETTY IMAGES) (AR20-AR21) This article appeared in print on page AR20, AR21.

Subject: Genre; Success; Musicians & conductors; Musical performances; Singers; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US; Nashville Tennessee

Company / organization: Name: Nickelback; NAICS: 711130; Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/11/arts/music/bailey-zimmerman-religiously-the-album.html

Title: A Modern Country Star in a Hybrid Mold:   [Arts and Leisure Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: AR.20

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 14, 2023

Section: AR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: Ne w York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2813109420

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/modern-country-star-hybrid-mold/docview/2813109420/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 14, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Liz Holmes Wants You to Forget About Elizabeth

Author: Chozick, Amy

Publication info: Chozick, Amy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/liz-holmes-wants-you-forget-about-elizabeth/docview/2810381613/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN DIEGO — Elizabeth Holmes blends in with the other moms here, in a bucket hat and sunglasses, her newborn strapped to her chest and swathed in a Baby Yoda nursing blanket. We walk past a family of caged orangutans and talk about how Holmes is preparing to go to prison for one of the most notorious cases of corporate fraud in recent history.
In case you’re wondering, Holmes speaks in a soft, slightly low, but totally unremarkable voice, no hint of the throaty contralto she used while running her blood-testing startup Theranos, now defunct.
“I made so many mistakes and there was so much I didn’t know and understand, and I feel like when you do it wrong, it’s like you really internalize it in a deep way,” Holmes said as we stopped to look at a hissing anaconda.
Billy Evans, Holmes’ partner and the father of their two young children, pushes a stroller with the couple’s 20-month-old son, William. William enjoys playing in the sand, “Little Blue Truck” and dumplings and, like his mom, already speaks some Mandarin. But William especially loves the San Diego Zoo, which is why, on a recent Thursday afternoon, I found myself in the surreal situation of trying to make sense of Holmes’ version of her rise and fall, while watching a restless cheetah and buying a gorilla T-shirt at the gift shop.
“How would you spend your time if you didn’t know how much time you had left?” Holmes said, her impending prison report date top of mind, perhaps even more so given that we were surrounded by animals behind bars. “It would be the kind of things we’re doing now because they’re perfect. Just being together.”
Holmes has not spoken to the media since 2016, when her legal team advised she go quiet. As the adage goes, if you don’t feed the press, we feed on you. In Holmes, we found an all-you-can-eat buffet. It had everything: the black turtlenecks, the Kabuki red lipstick, the green juices, the dancing to Lil Wayne. Somewhere along the way, Holmes said that the person (whoever that is) got lost. At one point, I tell her that I heard Jennifer Lawrence had pulled out of portraying her in a movie. She replied, almost reflectively, “They’re not playing me. They’re playing a character I created.”
So why did she create that public persona? “I believed it would be how I would be good at business and taken seriously and not taken as a little girl or a girl who didn’t have good technical ideas,” said Holmes, who founded Theranos at 19. “Maybe people picked up on that not being authentic, since it wasn’t.”
Maybe ?
Ten years ago, Holmes was the world’s youngest self-made female billionaire, worth $4.5 billion (on paper, in Theranos stock), and one of the most visible and celebrated female CEOs on the planet, running a startup with a $9 billion valuation. Then, in 2015, The Wall Street Journal published an investigation into Theranos, calling into question whether its labs and technology — a sleek, boxy device called the Edison — actually worked as promised, testing for a wide range of illnesses with a tiny amount of blood collected with a rapid finger prick.
In 2016, federal inspectors from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services found “deficient practices” in a Theranos lab that posed “immediate jeopardy to patient health and safety.”
That began a saga that would eventually lead to Holmes being convicted of criminal fraud charges.
The 15-week trial began in 2021 and featured extensive testimony about troubling practices at Theranos. The jury heard from several patients, including one who said a Theranos blood test revealed she was having a miscarriage when, in fact, she had a healthy pregnancy. Holmes was not convicted on any counts related to patients. But the testimony was a stark reminder of the human stakes of choosing biotech as your startup.
Holmes was found guilty in January 2022 on four of 11 charges that she defrauded Theranos investors out of more than $100 million. Her top lieutenant at Theranos, and much older boyfriend at the time, Ramesh Balwani, was found guilty of 10 counts of wire fraud and two counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud at Theranos. He began a 13-year prison sentence last month. On Thursday, his legal team filed an appeal with the 9th Circuit.
During the closely followed proceedings, a prosecutor, Robert Leach, said this was a case “about fraud, about lying and cheating,” alleging that Theranos raised hundreds of millions of dollars from investors by misleading them about its blood-testing technology’s capabilities.
Lance Wade, a lawyer for Holmes, said that his client “made mistakes, but mistakes are not crimes.”
By the time I met Holmes and Evans, they were counting the days until April 27, when she had been required to report to Federal Prison Camp in Bryan, Texas, for 11.25 years. (Shortly before she was due at prison, Holmes made a last-minute request to remain free pending an appeal, which automatically delayed her report date by an undetermined amount of time.)
Day 44: the afternoon we ordered in Mexican food at their quaint rental home near the Pacific.
Day 43: the morning we went for breakfast and Holmes breastfed her baby, Invicta (Latin for “invincible”) and sang along to Ace of Base’s “All That She Wants” on the loudspeakers (“This is the first album I ever owned”).
Day 42: the time we had croissants and berries and Evans made coffee and we walked the couple’s 150-pound Great Dane-mastiff mix, Teddy, on the beach.
On the second day we spent together, Evans asked me what the most surprising part of spending so much time with Holmes was. I told him it’s that I didn’t expect her to be so … normal ?
If you didn’t know she was that Elizabeth, whose trajectory launched a cottage industry of podcasts, TV shows, Halloween costumes and groupies who sold blond wigs outside her trial, then you might sit next to her at the Lucha Libre taco shop in Mission Hills without thinking twice.
This is when Evans puts on the deep voice. The guttural one that the world heard in Holmes’ TED Talk and CNBC appearances and in actress Amanda Seyfried’s Emmy-Award-winning turn as Holmes in Hulu’s “The Dropout.”
If you hate Elizabeth Holmes, you probably think her feigned perma-hoarseness was part of an elaborate scheme to defraud investors. If you are a person who is sympathetic to Holmes, then the James Earl Jones inflection was a sign of the impossible gymnastics that female founders must perform to be taken seriously. If you spend time with Holmes, as I did, then you might come away like me, and think that, as with many things about Holmes, it was both. Either way, even Evans agrees, the voice was real weird.
He was driving the family’s Tesla. Holmes climbed in, after strapping the babies, calm and happy, into their car seats. I rode shotgun. “That would be crazy, if she answered the door and said, ‘ Hi. I’m Elizabeth Holmes ,” Evans said, imitating the voice. Holmes let out the slightest of giggles from the back seat.
—
I realized that I was essentially writing a story about two people. There was Elizabeth, celebrated in the media as a rock-star inventor whose brilliance dazzled illustrious rich men, and whose criminal trial captivated the world. Then there is Liz, (as Evans and her friends call her), the mom of two who, for the past year, has been volunteering for a rape crisis hotline. Who can’t stomach R-rated movies and who rushed after me one afternoon with a paper towel to wipe a mix of sand and her dog’s slobber off my shoe.
After Holmes was convicted, Rupert Murdoch, who invested $125 million in Theranos, emailed The Wall Street Journal, a newspaper he owns, calling himself “one of a bunch of old men taken in by a seemingly great young woman! Total embarrassment.” I am not a smarter or more astute observer of human behavior than Murdoch or George Shultz, the former secretary of state who helped end the Cold War, or James Mattis, the retired four-star Marine Corps general and former defense secretary, both of whom were Theranos board members and investors. So, how could I be sure that “Liz” wasn’t another character that Holmes had created?
I was admittedly swept up in Liz as an authentic and sympathetic person. She’s gentle and charismatic, in a quiet way. My editor laughed at me when I shared these impressions, telling me (and I quote), “Amy Chozick, you got rolled!” I vigorously disagreed! You don’t know her like I do! But then, something strange happened. I worked my way through a list of Holmes’ friends, family and longtime supporters, whom she and Evans suggested I speak to. One of these friends said Holmes had genuine intentions at Theranos and didn’t deserve a lengthy prison sentence. Then, this person requested anonymity to caution me not to believe everything Holmes says.
This warning stuck with me, and it got at something that had been gnawing on me since I first met Holmes. How do you have an honest conversation with a person whose fraud trial has played out so publicly? I tried to ask Holmes this directly. How do I believe you when you’ve been convicted of (basically) lying? But how could I ask someone who was nursing her 11-day-old baby on a white sofa 2 feet away if she was conning me?
It was in these uncomfortable exchanges that Evans often stepped in. “Your question is, ‘How do you say anything when everything you say is going to be doubted?’ You just have to say it,” he said.
So, to just say it: Holmes knows what you’re thinking about her trial, and the birth of her two babies.
When she alerted the court March 12, 2021, that she was pregnant with her first child, Leach, the prosecutor, called the news “frustrating.” The trial had already been delayed because of the pandemic, and was pushed back a few more weeks, until after she gave birth that July.
Which is why she was there in a San Jose federal courthouse using the high-tech Elvie breast pump with its glowing aqua nipples. “She looked like a fembot,” Evans said.
At her sentencing hearing in November 2022, she was visibly pregnant with her second child. That baby was born in February. In March, Holmes’ defense team partly cited her “two very young children” in arguing that she should remain free while appealing her fraud conviction. A Daily Mail headline referred to the baby as a “Last-Ditch Bid for New Trial.”
But, as Holmes explains it, it’s just bad timing (to put it mildly). She is 39. She fell in love with Evans in 2017. They did not anticipate that she would be indicted. They did not anticipate that she would be sentenced to 11 years. They always wanted a big family.
“If we let how other people might view that, or what impression someone might make of it dictate how we live our lives, then we’ve lost,” Holmes said. “Finding your person in the middle of all of this and experiencing that love when you’re going through hell is the most beautiful thing I’ve ever experienced.”
—
I’d hardly sat down in Holmes’ and Evans’ home the first time we met in person, when Holmes told me about her work at the rape-crisis hotline. She’d just finished a 12-hour shift, which she does a few times a week from home using her cellphone, answering calls when they come in.
She then put this work into context, telling me how surviving a rape at a fraternity party her sophomore year at Stanford had, in retrospect, colored so many of her life choices. It’s the part of her story that she keeps getting back to. The one she told a sympathetic, but ultimately undeterred jury, according to news reports. The one she wants people to (finally) listen to. (I later reviewed a 52-page Santa Clara police report that documented the details of the alleged sexual assault and Holmes’ injuries. Holmes did not press charges.)
Holmes hands the baby to Evans. “I’ll give her to you when we’re talking about this stuff,” she said. She continued, “I woke up with this guy who was my friend having sex with me and I couldn’t get him off of me.” Holmes said the assault, in October 2003, contributed to her decision to drop out several months later and start a company.
To help her do that, she turned to Balwani, known as Sunny, whom she first met in 2002 on a college trip to China. Holmes was 18. Balwani was 37 and had already successfully founded and sold a tech company.
In March 2004, her sophomore year, Holmes left Stanford and moved in with Balwani to get Theranos off the ground. (Balwani guaranteed a loan to Theranos and joined the company in 2009.) “I really thought I’d be safe,” Holmes said. “My friends at school and that whole universe, it didn’t exist anymore when I was with him. It was all gone.”
As Holmes explained it, echoing a key part of her defense strategy, Balwani kept close control over her every action. She detailed extensive domestic abuse and sexual assault. She said that Balwani forced her to stop speaking to her family and Stanford friends and pressured her to adopt the black-turtleneck, red-lipstick persona.
“He always told me I needed to ‘kill Elizabeth,’ so I could become a good entrepreneur,” she said.
Jeffrey Coopersmith, a lawyer for Balwani, denied the allegations. “Our client is not a person who is vindictive or mean spirited or aggressive,” he said.
She lived by entrepreneurial tenets that she said Balwani told her she needed to follow in order to succeed. These included not sleeping for more than five hours, going vegan, getting to the office daily by 5 a.m., no alcohol.
“It was only when people started to raise questions about the company that I started to see that he was not who I thought he was in business,” Holmes said of Balwani. “And then that made me start to question everything else.”
One of the last times we spoke, I asked Holmes to clarify what she meant. As CEO, wasn’t she in charge? She said Balwani did not control her every interaction or statement at Theranos, but she “deferred to him in the areas he oversaw because I believed he knew better than I did,” and those areas included the problematic clinical lab.
Balwani’s lawyer, Coopersmith, said his client was in regular contact with Holmes about any issues at the lab, adding that she “was a strong woman who had a vision and Sunny was helping her execute her vision.”
Holmes’ story of how she got here — to the bright, cozy house and the supportive partner and the two babies — feels a lot like the story of someone who had finally broken out of a cult and been deprogrammed. After her relationship with Balwani ended and Theranos dissolved, Holmes said, “I began my life again.”
But then I remember that Holmes was running the cult.
—
In person, Holmes is engaging, but she is also somewhat socially stunted. It’s as if Rip Van Winkle fell asleep in his early 20s in a startup and woke up a 32-year-old at Burning Man. That’s because in the 14 years Holmes led Theranos she didn’t do any of the normal things 20-somethings do, according to her friends and family. Holmes had so few actual friends, she said, when she was running Theranos that she once pulled a female pharmaceutical executive aside to ask if the way Balwani treated her was normal in a relationship. However, the same person who warned me about Holmes pointed out that she seemed to have plenty of wealthy, famous friends in this period.
In 2015, when The Wall Street Journal first reported on serious flaws in Theranos’ technology, Debbie Sterling, an entrepreneur and classmate of Holmes’ from Stanford, reached out asking if Holmes needed someone to talk to. “She said, ‘I don’t have any friends. I only work, from the first thing in the morning until late at night,’” Sterling recalled. “It was kinda creepy.” She corrects herself, “Not creepy, but concerning.” They eventually met for breakfast in Palo Alto.
Sterling said she thought about her friend as two distinct people: There was “black turtleneck Elizabeth” and there was “real Elizabeth.” Sterling, along with several other Stanford friends, attended the trial to support Holmes. But first she bought brown drugstore hair dye, worried that being seen there might impugn her reputation.
In 2016, as regulators scrutinized Theranos, Balwani resigned. Theranos shut down its clinical laboratory and laid off roughly 40% of its estimated 790 employees. Holmes’ brother (and Theranos executive), Christian Holmes V, helped her pack up and move out of the mansion she’d shared with Balwani. Holmes, barred from working in a medical laboratory for two years, checked into a hotel and then rented a two-bedroom home in Los Altos. She had almost no belongings, so her parents sent her some ’90s chintz furniture that they had in storage.
In 2017, as Theranos faced an onslaught of legal challenges, both civil and criminal, Holmes moved to San Francisco, where she met a recent Massachusetts Institute of Technology graduate and entrepreneur, Billy Evans, at a house party during Fleet Week to benefit wounded warriors. Evans had gone out to get ice for a party he was hosting at his own apartment and a friend texted to ask if he was going to the benefit. He agreed to swing by for a few minutes and never made it to back to his party.
A mutual friend introduced him to Holmes and the pair talked for three hours. “My friends were texting, ‘Where are you? We’re here,” Evans recalled. “To say we immediately fell in love isn’t an overstatement.”
Evans was 25 and living with roommates in San Francisco, but in many ways he was more mature than Holmes. She was 32 and had never opened a bottle of wine. “Elizabeth lived in complete isolation with Sunny,” her father, Christian Holmes IV, said. “It’s hard to explain the extent to which she missed so much of the growing up that someone does in their 20s.” As Theranos settled an onslaught of civil lawsuits and federal prosecutors closed in on criminal charges, Holmes started to socialize again, reconnecting with family and friends. “Despite everything going horribly in her life, we had our daughter back, and it was wonderful to see how she used to be,” said her mother, Noel Holmes.
Holmes and Evans quickly became more than friends and moved in together. “It had been two years of all this stuff written about me, and I think you get to know someone in a totally different way when you walk in with that skepticism versus if you meet when everything is sunshine and roses,” Holmes said. “That allowed us to get to know each other in a really deep way.”
In 2018, the Justice Department indicted Holmes, accusing her of lying when she told investors that Theranos’ devices could quickly perform a full range of clinical blood tests using a finger prick, even though she knew the tests were unreliable, limited and slow.
The much-hyped box didn’t do much. And most of the promises that put Holmes on the map turned out to be fiction.
The Theranos board, failing to find a buyer for the startup, eventually dissolved the company.
Where do you go when your life’s work and reputation go up in flames? Burning Man.
Holmes and Evans went to the desert oasis for moneyed bohemians. She burned a tribute to Theranos. “There was an incredible sense of grief because I’d given everything to it, my whole life, since I’d been 18,” she said of that period.
The next year, in 2019, after U.S. District Judge Edward J. Davila set a date for Holmes’ criminal trial, she and Evans hit the road. As prosecutors assembled their case, Holmes and Evans spent six months traveling the country in an recreational vehicle, sleeping in campgrounds and Walmart parking lots. Holmes balanced outdoor yoga and long hikes in national parks with working on her legal defense.
I tell Holmes (in so many words) that it seems like she became blissfully happy just as her life was falling apart. She does not disagree. “Even though that period was a crisis and Theranos was my life and like my child, I gave everything I had to it,” she said. After it was gone, “I also became free.”
At least, for now.
—
Evans, whose parents are prominent hoteliers in San Diego, and Holmes have an us-against-the-world ethos that is both romantic and rings slightly of Bonnie and Clyde. They say they’ve been chased out of residence after residence, no matter how remote. On my way to their front door, I walk past rows of orange storage containers filled with the couple’s personal belongings. They never unpack, Evans explains, concerned they’ll have to move again when they’re found.
The morning we went to the zoo, Evans stopped at Starbucks. He returned to find the barista had written “Billy the Kid” on his coffee cup. Holmes didn’t get the reference.
Evans took a few calls for work while I was visiting. I asked what he does. “A lot of different stuff, investing, starting companies,” he replied, without elaborating. How is Holmes paying her legal expenses? “I can’t,” she said. “I have to work for the rest of my life to try to pay for it.” I asked if Evans’ family was helping to cover her legal expenses. She shook her head no.
An earlier legal team quit after Holmes could not pay them. One pre-sentencing report by the government put her legal fees at more than $30 million. Holmes did not detail how those fees would be paid, and her current representatives at Williams & Connolly did not respond to emails asking about her financial arrangement.
Their toddler, William, recently had 105-degree fever, the couple said. They raced him to the emergency room. The first thing the attending doctor said was, “You look a lot like that horrible woman.” Holmes looked at him with her piercing blue eyes, and said, “I’m sure you’re a better person than she is.” The doctor seemed to realize who he was talking to. She continued, “Then he said, ‘Are you Elizabeth Holmes?’ And I said yes and he said, ‘I am so sorry,’ and I said, ‘Don’t be, all you know is what you’ve read.’”
By Evans’ father, William L. Evans’ tally, there are “over 67,600,600” web results on Holmes, all of them negative, compared with “21 million results, many of which are positive” for Osama bin Laden, figures he wrote in a letter to the court. Holmes’ mother, Noel, said she stopped cold in a Barnes & Noble when she saw her daughter characterized in a book display as a “paranoid sociopath” who is “devoid of conscience.”
“Everybody got on the train that Elizabeth was evil, and it was great copy, and they took it and ran with it,” said Holmes’ father, Christian.
Holmes’ defenders, stretching back to childhood, said in letters to the court, and in conversations with me, that the feverish coverage of Holmes’ downfall felt like a witch trial, less rooted in what actually happened at Theranos, and more of a message to ambitious women everywhere. Don’t girl boss too close to the sun, or this could happen to you.
“There’s an unspoken lesson for female executives: You’re allowed to be successful but not too successful,” Jackie Lamping, a Kappa Alpha Theta sorority sister of Holmes’ at Stanford, wrote in a letter to Davila, who oversaw the trial.
Holmes said she believed that making herself the poster girl for women in tech put a huge target on her back. She regrets being the subject of fawning magazine covers (though I imagine the authors of those stories regret it more). “I never lost sight of the mission but I think I did of the narrative,” she said. “The story became this story that was totally snowballed away from what we were actually talking about.”
Of course, Holmes also tried to control the story, often with scorched-earth tactics. She is typically docile, but got visibly upset when I asked about how lawyer David Boies had threatened litigation against people who spoke negatively about Theranos. Alex Shultz, the father of the Theranos employee turned whistleblower Tyler Shultz, and the son of George Shultz, told the court that Tyler “slept with a knife under his pillow every night thinking that someone was going to come and murder him in the night.” (Holmes and Boies parted ways and she replaced her legal team in 2016.)
“I’m still thinking about the journalists being intimidated,” Holmes said after we’d moved on to several other topics. “As I said at trial, I completely wish we’d handled that situation differently.” She tears up. “I take responsibility for it because I was CEO of the company and at the end of the day, that’s that, but I don’t believe in people being treated that way, period.” (In response to Holmes seemingly casting blame on her legal team, a spokesperson for Boies texted, “Whatever.”)
Holmes chooses her words carefully when I ask if the prominent men who invested and joined the Theranos board were drawn to the startup partly because the founder was an attractive young woman. “A lot of people were attracted to this for their own reasons,” she said.
What does she think would have happened if she hadn’t garnered so much early attention as the second coming of Silicon Valley? Holmes does not blink: “We would’ve seen through our vision.” In other words, she thinks if she’d spent more time quietly working on her inventions and less time on a stage promoting the company, she would have revolutionized health care by now.
This kind of misguided talk is the one consistent thread in my reporting on who Holmes really is. She repeatedly says that Theranos wasn’t a get-rich-quick scheme for her; she never sold her shares and didn’t come out of it wealthy. Holmes’ parents said they borrowed $500,000 against their Washington, D.C.-area home to post Holmes’ bond.
I can’t shake an earlier story that Evans relayed. In the waning days of Theranos, Holmes got a dog, a Siberian husky named Balto. Last year, when a mountain lion carried Balto away from the front porch, Holmes spent 16 hours searching in the woods, digging through brambles and poison oak, hoping to find him alive. Everyone knew Balto was dead, but Holmes kept searching. The relentlessness. The certainty. The fanaticism. It’s the same way Holmes kept hanging on at Theranos.
Over antioxidant smoothies, Holmes told me she has ideas for COVID testing, drawing on her work in a Singapore lab as a college student during the SARS outbreak.
She maintains the idealistic delusion of a 19-year-old, never mind that she’s 39 with a fraud conviction, telling me she is still working on health care-related inventions and would continue to do so behind bars.
“I still dream about being able to contribute in that space,” Holmes said. “I still feel the same calling to it as I always did and I still think the need is there.”
If your head is exploding at how divorced from reality this sounds, that’s kind of the point. When Holmes uses the messianic vernacular of tech, I get the sense that she truly believes that she could have — and, in fact, she still could — change the world, and she doesn’t much care if we believe her or not. “Liz is not a natural born leader; she is more of a zealot than a showman,” Evans wrote to Davila.
It’s this steadfast (or unhinged?) belief that has kept Holmes fighting, even though a guilty plea would have likely helped her chances of remaining free. “She could have said, ‘Yes, I lied, and I tried my best to save mankind, but this happened in my enthusiasm,’” her father told me. “But she has taken the position that she is not guilty and that takes guts.”
Holmes eventually found her beloved husky, Balto, in the woods. But by then the dog was gone, torn apart by the mountain lion.
—
The last day I spent with Holmes, I parked and walked up the long driveway to find her and Evans embracing in the kitchen. They looked like they were slow dancing, swaying slightly, the two of them against the world. Fireplace burning. Seagulls flying overhead. Teddy drooling in his crate. Babies (plural) sleeping.
Evans left for a workout, saying he doesn’t want “dad bod.” Holmes and I sat at the kitchen table alone, talking. She didn’t seem like a hero or a villain. She seemed, like most people, somewhere in between. As Holmes broke down thinking about what her children will be like in 11 years, I kept going back to her central promise at Theranos: The technology that she invented would, in her words, create “a world in which no one ever has to say goodbye too soon.”
And there she was, preparing to do just that.
That Friday, the couple were getting ready to host a group of friends from the Bay Area. They invited me to stay. They repeatedly invited me to come back, to bring my family. We could all go to the zoo.
I appreciated their hospitality, but I didn’t fully understand it. Usually interview subjects can’t wait to get rid of me.
Then I realized why they kept opening the door wider. Holmes is unlike anyone I’ve ever met — modest but mesmerizing. If you are in her presence, it is impossible not to believe her, not to be taken with her and be taken in by her. Liz Holmes and Billy Evans know that. I politely declined their invitation.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Criminal sentences; Wire fraud; Investments; Prisons; Appeals; Startups

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups

People: Holmes, Elizabeth

Company / organization: Name: Theranos Inc; NAICS: 339113; Name: Wall Street Journal; NAICS: 513110, 516210

Identifier / keyword: Moving And Moving Industry; Seyfried, Amanda; State Department; Theranos Inc; Inventions And Patents; Animal Behavior; Massachusetts; Coffee; Privacy; Assaults; Two Thousand Twenties (Decade); National Parks, Monuments And Seashores; Fraternities And Sororities; Domestic Violence; Prisons And Prisoners; United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Pregnancy And Childbirth; The Dropout (Tv Program); Justice Department; Furniture; Corporations; Youth; Disasters And Emergencies; Mountain Lions And Cougars; San Diego (Calif); Santa Clara County (Calif); Lil Wayne; HuluCom; Babies And Infants; Suits And Litigation (Civil); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Cnbc; Chozick, Amy; Halloween; Whatever (Movie); Monkeys And Apes; Coastal Areas; Exercise; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Blood; Emmy Awards; Birth Control And Family Planning; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Balwani, Ramesh; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Evans, William "Billy"; Texas; Discrimination; Wall Street Journal; Fruit; Executives And Management (Theory); Dogs; Computers And The Internet; Sex Crimes; Lying; Actors And Actresses; Starbucks Corporation; Entrepreneurship; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Senses And Sensation; San Diego Zoo; Ace Of Base; Frauds And Swindling; Shutdowns (Institutional); International Relations; News And News Media; Shultz, George P; Dating And Relationships; Edison, Thomas A; San Francisco (Calif); Holmes, Elizabeth (1984 ); Burning Man Festival; Stocks And Bonds; United States Marine Corps; Mattis, James N; Breastfeeding; Stunts And Stuntmen; Newspapers; Zoos; Securities And Commodities Violations; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Mexico; Siberia; Stanford University; Walmart Stores Inc; Boies, David; Gallagher, Noel; Silicon Valley (Calif); Television; Food Trucks And Vendors; Children And Childhood; Travel And Vacations; High Net Worth Individuals; Bonney, William; Massachusetts Institute Of Technology; Barnes & Noble Inc; Tesla, Nikola; Happiness; Lawrence, Jennifer; Autumn (Season); Daily Mail; Laboratories And Scientific Equipment; Voice And Speech; Washington (Dc); Business; Centers For Medicare And Medicaid Services; Colleges And Universities; Jones, James Earl; Wines; Singapore; Start Ups; Tests (Medical); Sexual Harassment; Williams & Connolly Llp; Disease Rates; Murdoch, Rupert; Books And Literature; Age, Chronological; Chi na

Title: Liz Holmes Wants You to Forget About Elizabeth

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

Dateline: 2023-05-07T12:35:36Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 281038161 3

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/liz-holmes-wants-you-forget-about-elizabeth/docview/2810381613/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-10

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Liz Holmes Wants You to Forget About Elizabeth: [Correction]

Author: Chozick, Amy

Publication info: Chozick, Amy. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/liz-holmes-wants-you-forget-about-elizabeth/docview/2810282538/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Elizabeth Holmes blends in with the other moms here, in a bucket hat and sunglasses, her newborn strapped to her chest and swathed in a Baby Yoda nursing blanket. We walk past a family of caged orangutans and talk about how Ms. Holmes is preparing to go to prison for one of the most notorious cases of corporate fraud in recent history.
In case you're wondering, Ms. Holmes speaks in a soft, slightly low, but totally unremarkable voice, no hint of the throaty contralto she used while running her defunct blood-testing start-up Theranos.
"I made so many mistakes and there was so much I didn't know and understand, and I feel like when you do it wrong, it's like you really internalize it in a deep way," Ms. Holmes said as we stopped to look at a hissing anaconda.
Billy Evans, Ms. Holmes's partner and the father of their two young children, pushes a stroller with the couple's 20-month-old son, William. William enjoys playing in the sand, "The Little Blue Truck," dumplings and, like his mom, already speaks some Mandarin. But William especially loves the San Diego Zoo, which is why, on a recent Thursday afternoon, I found myself in the surreal situation of trying to make sense of Ms. Holmes's version of her rise and fall, while watching a restless cheetah and buying a gorilla T-shirt at the gift shop.
"How would you spend your time if you didn't know how much time you had left?" Ms. Holmes said, her impending prison report date top of mind, perhaps even more so given that we were surrounded by animals behind bars. "It would be the kind of things we're doing now because they're perfect. Just being together."
Ms. Holmes has not spoken to the media since 2016, when her legal team advised she go quiet. And, as the adage goes, if you don't feed the press, we feed on you. In Elizabeth Holmes, we found an all-you-can-eat buffet. It had everything: The black turtlenecks, the Kabuki red lipstick, the green juices, the dancing to Lil Wayne. Somewhere along the way, Ms. Holmes says that the person (whoever that is) got lost. At one point, I tell her that I heard Jennifer Lawrence had pulled out of portraying her in a movie. She replied, almost reflectively, "They're not playing me. They're playing a character I created."
So, why did she create that public persona? "I believed it would be how I would be good at business and taken seriously and not taken as a little girl or a girl who didn't have good technical ideas," said Ms. Holmes, who founded Theranos at 19. "Maybe people picked up on that not being authentic, since it wasn't."
Maybe?
Ten years ago, Ms. Holmes was the world's youngest self-made female billionaire, worth $ 4.5 billion (on paper, in Theranos stock), and one of the most visible and celebrated female C.E.O.s on the planet, running a start-up with a $ 9 billion valuation. Then, in 2015, The Wall Street Journal published an investigation into Theranos, calling into question whether its labs and technology -- a sleek, boxy device called the Edison -- actually worked as promised, testing for a wide range of illnesses with a tiny amount of blood collected with a rapid finger prick.
In 2016, federal inspectors from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services found "deficient practices" in a Theranos lab that posed "immediate jeopardy to patient health and safety."
That began a saga that would eventually lead to Ms. Holmes being convicted of criminal fraud charges.
The 15-week trial began in 2021 and featured extensive testimony about troubling practices at Theranos. The jury heard from several patients, including one who said a Theranos blood test revealed she was having a miscarriage when, in fact, she had a healthy pregnancy. Ms. Holmes was not convicted on any counts related to patients. But the testimony was a stark reminder of the human stakes of choosing biotech as your start-up.
Ms. Holmes was found guilty in January 2022 on four of 11 charges that she defrauded Theranos investors out of more than $ 100 million. Her top lieutenant at Theranos, and much older boyfriend at the time, Ramesh Balwani, was found guilty of 10 counts of wire fraud and two counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud at Theranos. He began a 13-year prison sentence last month. On Thursday, his legal team filed an appeal with the Ninth Circuit.
During the closely followed proceedings, a prosecutor, Robert Leach, said this was a case "about fraud, about lying and cheating," alleging that Theranos raised hundreds of millions of dollars from investors by misleading them about its blood-testing technology's capabilities.
Lance Wade, a lawyer for Ms. Holmes, said that his client "made mistakes, but mistakes are not crimes."
By the time I met Ms. Holmes and Mr. Evans, they were counting the days until April 27, when she had been required to report to Federal Prison Camp in Bryan, Texas, for 11.25 years. (Shortly before she was due at prison, Ms. Holmes made a last-minute request to remain free pending an appeal, which automatically delayed her report date by an undetermined amount of time.)
Day 44: the afternoon we ordered in Mexican food at their quaint rental home near the Pacific.
Day 43: the morning we went for breakfast and Ms. Holmes breastfed her baby, Invicta (Latin for "invincible") and sang along to Ace of Base's "All That She Wants" on the loudspeakers ("This is the first album I ever owned.").
Day 42: the time we had croissants and berries and Mr. Evans made coffee and we walked the couple's 150-pound Great Dane-mastiff mix, Teddy, on the beach.
On the second day we spent together, Mr. Evans asked me what the most surprising part of spending so much time with Ms. Holmes was. I told him it's that I didn't expect her to be so ... normal?
If you didn't know she was that Elizabeth, whose trajectory launched a cottage industry of podcasts, TV shows, Halloween costumes and groupies who sold blonde wigs outside her trial, then you might sit next to her at the Lucha Libre taco shop in Mission Hills without thinking twice.
This is when Billy puts on the deep voice. The guttural one that the world heard in Ms. Holmes's TED Talk and CNBC appearances and in the actress Amanda Seyfried's Emmy-award-winning turn as Ms. Holmes in Hulu's "The Dropout."
If you hate Elizabeth Holmes, you probably think her feigned perma-hoarseness was part of an elaborate scheme to defraud investors. If you are a person who is sympathetic to Ms. Holmes, then the James Earl Jones inflection was a sign of the impossible gymnastics that female founders must perform to be taken seriously. If you spend time with Ms. Holmes, as I did, then you might come away like me, and think that, as with many things about Elizabeth Holmes, it was both. Either way, even Mr. Evans agrees, the voice was real weird.
He was driving the family's Tesla. Ms. Holmes climbed in, after strapping the babies, calm and happy, into their carseats. I rode shotgun. "That would be crazy, if she answered the door and said, 'Hi. I'm Elizabeth Holmes," Mr. Evans said, imitating the voice. Ms. Holmes let out the slightest of giggles from the back seat.
***
I realized that I was essentially writing a story about two different people. There was Elizabeth, celebrated in the media as a rock-star inventor whose brilliance dazzled illustrious rich men, and whose criminal trial captivated the world. Then there is "Liz," (as Mr. Evans and her friends call her), the mom of two who, for the past year, has been volunteering for a rape crisis hotline. Who can't stomach R-rated movies and who rushed after me one afternoon with a paper towel to wipe a mix of sand and her dog's slobber off my shoe.
After Ms. Holmes was convicted, Rupert Murdoch, who invested $ 125 million in Theranos, emailed The Wall Street Journal, a newspaper he owns, calling himself "one of a bunch of old men taken in by a seemingly great young woman! Total embarrassment." I am not a smarter or more astute observer of human behavior than Mr. Murdoch or George Shultz, the former secretary of state who helped end the Cold War, or James Mattis, the retired four-star Marine Corps general and former defense secretary, both of whom were Theranos board members and investors. So, how could I be sure that "Liz" wasn't another character that Ms. Holmes had created?
I was admittedly swept up in Liz as an authentic and sympathetic person. She's gentle and charismatic, in a quiet way. My editor laughed at me when I shared these impressions, telling me (and I quote), "Amy Chozick, you got rolled!" I vigorously disagreed! You don't know her like I do! But then, something very strange happened. I worked my way through a list of Ms. Holmes's friends, family and longtime supporters, whom she and Mr. Evans suggested I speak to. One of these friends said Ms. Holmes had genuine intentions at Theranos and didn't deserve a lengthy prison sentence. Then, this person requested anonymity to caution me not to believe everything Ms. Holmes says.
This warning stuck with me, and it got at something that had been gnawing on me since I first met Ms. Holmes. How do you have an honest conversation with a person whose fraud trial has played out so publicly? I tried to ask Ms. Holmes this directly. How do I believe you when you've been convicted of (basically) lying? But how could I ask someone who was nursing her 11-day-old baby on a white sofa two feet away if she was actually conning me?
It was in these uncomfortable exchanges that Mr. Evans often stepped in. "Your question is, 'How do you say anything when everything you say is going to be doubted?' You just have to say it," he said.
So, to just say it: Ms. Holmes knows what you're thinking about her trial, and the birth of her two babies.
When she alerted the court on March 12, 2021, that she was pregnant with her first child, Mr. Leach, the prosecutor, called the news "frustrating." The trial had already been delayed because of the pandemic, and was pushed back a few more weeks, until after she gave birth that July.
Which is why she was there in a San Jose federal courthouse using the high-tech Elvie breast pump with its glowing aqua nipples. "She looked like a Fembot," Mr. Evans said.
At her sentencing hearing in November 2022, she was visibly pregnant with her second child. That baby was born in February. In March, Ms. Holmes's defense team partly cited her "two very young children" in arguing that she should remain free while appealing her fraud conviction. A Daily Mail headline referred to the baby as a "Last-Ditch Bid for New Trial."
But, as Ms. Holmes explains it, it's just bad timing (to put it mildly). She is 39. She fell in love with Mr. Evans in 2017. They did not anticipate that she would be indicted. They did not anticipate that she would be sentenced to 11 years. They always wanted a big family.
"If we let how other people might view that, or what impression someone might make of it dictate how we live our lives, then we've lost," Ms. Holmes said. "Finding your person in the middle of all of this and experiencing that love when you're going through hell is the most beautiful thing I've ever experienced."
***
I'd hardly sat down in Ms. Holmes's and Mr. Evans's home the first time we met in person, when Ms. Holmes told me about her work at the rape-crisis hotline. She'd just finished a 12-hour shift, which she does a few times a week from home using her cellphone, answering calls when they come in.
She then put this work into context, telling me how surviving a rape at a fraternity party her sophomore year at Stanford had, in retrospect, colored so many of her life choices. It's the part of her story that she keeps getting back to. The one she told a sympathetic, but ultimately undeterred jury, according to news reports. The one she wants people to (finally) listen to. (I later reviewed a 52-page Santa Clara police report that documented the details of the alleged sexual assault and Ms. Holmes's injuries. Ms. Holmes did not press charges.)
Ms. Holmes hands the baby to Mr. Evans. "I'll give her to you when we're talking about this stuff," she said. She continued, "I woke up with this guy who was my friend having sex with me and I couldn't get him off of me." Ms. Holmes said the assault, in October 2003, contributed to her decision to drop out several months later and start a company.
To help her do that, she turned to Mr. Balwani, known as Sunny, whom she first met in 2002 on a college trip to China. Ms. Holmes was 18. Mr. Balwani was 37 and had already successfully founded and sold a tech company.
In March 2004, her sophomore year, Ms. Holmes left Stanford and moved in with Mr. Balwani to get Theranos off the ground. (Mr. Balwani guaranteed a loan to Theranos and joined the company in 2009.) "I really thought I'd be safe," Ms. Holmes said. "My friends at school and that whole universe, it didn't exist anymore when I was with him. It was all gone."
As Ms. Holmes explained it, echoing a key part of her defense strategy, Mr. Balwani kept close control over her every action. She detailed extensive domestic abuse and sexual assault. She said that Mr. Balwani forced her to stop speaking to her family and Stanford friends and pressured her to adopt the black-turtleneck, red-lipstick persona.
"He always told me I needed to 'kill Elizabeth,' so I could become a good entrepreneur," she said.
Jeffrey Coopersmith, a lawyer for Mr. Balwani, denied the allegations. "Our client is not a person who is vindictive or mean spirited or aggressive," he said.
She lived by entrepreneurial tenets that she said Mr. Balwani told her she needed to follow in order to succeed. These included not sleeping for more than five hours, going vegan, getting to the office daily by 5 a.m., no alcohol.
"It was only when people started to raise questions about the company that I started to see that he was not who I thought he was in business," Ms. Holmes said of Mr. Balwani. "And then that made me start to question everything else."
One of the last times we spoke, I asked Ms. Holmes to clarify what she meant. As C.E.O., wasn't she in charge? She said Mr. Balwani did not control her every interaction or statement at Theranos, but she "deferred to him in the areas he oversaw because I believed he knew better than I did," and those areas included the problematic clinical lab.
Mr. Balwani's lawyer, Mr. Coopersmith, said his client was in regular contact with Ms. Holmes about any issues at the lab, adding that she "was a strong woman who had a vision and Sunny was helping her execute her vision."
Ms. Holmes's story of how she got here -- to the bright, cozy house and the supportive partner and the two babies -- feels a lot like the story of someone who had finally broken out of a cult and been deprogrammed. After her relationship with Mr. Balwani ended and Theranos dissolved, Ms. Holmes said, "I began my life again."
But then I remember that Ms. Holmes was running the cult.
***
In person, Ms. Holmes is engaging, but she is also somewhat socially stunted. It's as if Rip Van Winkle fell asleep in his early 20s in a start-up and woke up a 32-year-old at Burning Man. That's because in the 14 years Ms. Holmes led Theranos she didn't do any of the normal things 20-somethings do, according to her friends and family. Ms. Holmes had so few actual friends, she said, when she was running Theranos that she once pulled a female pharmaceutical executive aside to ask if the way Mr. Balwani treated her was normal in a relationship. However -- the same person who warned me about Ms. Holmes pointed out that she seemed to have plenty of wealthy, famous friends in this period.
In 2015, when The Wall Street Journal first reported on serious flaws in Theranos's technology, Debbie Sterling, an entrepreneur and classmate of Ms. Holmes's from Stanford, reached out asking if Ms. Holmes needed someone to talk to. "She said, 'I don't have any friends. I only work, from the first thing in the morning until late at night,"' Ms. Sterling recalled. "It was kinda creepy." She corrects herself: "Not creepy, but concerning." They eventually met for breakfast in Palo Alto.
Ms. Sterling said she thought about her friend as two distinct people: There was "black turtleneck Elizabeth" and there was "real Elizabeth." Ms. Sterling, along with several other Stanford friends, attended the trial to support Ms. Holmes. But first she bought brown drugstore hair dye, worried that being seen there might impugn her reputation.
In 2016, as regulators scrutinized Theranos, Mr. Balwani resigned. Theranos shut down its clinical laboratory and laid off roughly 40 percent of its estimated 790 employees. Ms. Holmes's brother (and Theranos executive), Christian Holmes V, helped her pack up and move out of the mansion she'd shared with Mr. Balwani. Ms. Holmes, barred from working in a medical laboratory for two years, checked into a hotel and then rented a two-bedroom home in Los Altos. She had almost no belongings, so her parents sent her some '90s chintz furniture that they had in storage.
In 2017, as Theranos faced an onslaught of legal challenges, both civil and criminal, Ms. Holmes moved to San Francisco, where she met a recent M.I.T. graduate and entrepreneur, Billy Evans, at a house party during Fleet Week to benefit wounded warriors. Mr. Evans had gone out to get ice for a party he was hosting at his own apartment and a friend texted to ask if he was going to the benefit. He agreed to swing by for a few minutes and never made it to back to his party.
A mutual friend introduced him to Ms. Holmes and the pair talked for three hours. "My friends were texting, 'Where are you? We're here," Mr. Evans recalled. "To say we immediately fell in love isn't an overstatement."
Mr. Evans was 25 and living with roommates in San Francisco, but in many ways he was more mature than Ms. Holmes. She was 32 and had never opened a bottle of wine. "Elizabeth lived in complete isolation with Sunny," her father, Christian Holmes IV, told me. "It's hard to explain the extent to which she missed so much of the growing up that someone does in their 20s." As Theranos settled an onslaught of civil lawsuits and federal prosecutors closed in on criminal charges, Ms. Holmes started to socialize again, reconnecting with family and friends. "Despite everything going horribly in her life, we had our daughter back, and it was wonderful to see how she used to be," her mother, Noel Holmes, said.
Ms. Holmes and Mr. Evans quickly became more than friends and moved in together. "It had been two years of all this stuff written about me, and I think you get to know someone in a totally different way when you walk in with that skepticism versus if you meet when everything is sunshine and roses," Ms. Holmes said. "That allowed us to get to know each other in a really deep way."
In 2018, the Justice Department indicted Ms. Holmes, accusing her of lying when she told investors that Theranos's devices could quickly perform a full range of clinical blood tests using a finger prick, even though she knew the tests were unreliable, limited and slow.
The much-hyped box didn't do much of anything. And most of the promises that put Ms. Holmes on the map turned out to be fiction.
The Theranos board, failing to find a buyer for the start-up, eventually dissolved the company.
Where do you go when your life's work and reputation go up in flames? ... Burning Man.
Ms. Holmes and Mr. Evans went to the desert oasis for moneyed bohemians. She burned a tribute to Theranos. "There was an incredible sense of grief because I'd given everything to it, my whole life, since I'd been 18," she said of that period.
The following year, in 2019, after U.S. District Judge Edward J. Davila set a date for Ms. Holmes's criminal trial, she and Mr. Evans hit the road. As prosecutors assembled their case, Ms. Holmes and Mr. Evans spent six months traveling the country in an R.V., sleeping in campgrounds and Walmart parking lots. Ms. Holmes balanced outdoor yoga and long hikes in national parks with working on her legal defense.
I tell Ms. Holmes (in so many words) that it seems like she became blissfully happy just as her life was falling apart. She does not disagree. "Even though that period was a crisis and Theranos was my life and like my child, I gave everything I had to it," she said. After it was gone, "I also became free."
At least, for now.
***
Mr. Evans, whose parents are prominent hoteliers in San Diego, and Ms. Holmes have an us-against-the-world ethos that is both romantic and rings slightly of Bonnie and Clyde. They say they've been chased out of residence after residence, no matter how remote. On my way to their front door, I walk past rows of orange storage containers filled with the couple's personal belongings. They never unpack, Mr. Evans explains, concerned they'll have to move again when they're found.
The morning we went to the zoo, Mr. Evans stopped at Starbucks. He returned to find the barista had written "Billy the Kid" on his coffee cup. Ms. Holmes didn't get the reference.
Mr. Evans took a few calls for work while I was visiting. I asked what he does. "A lot of different stuff, investing, starting companies," he replied, without elaborating. How is Ms. Holmes paying her legal expenses? "I can't," she said. "I have to work for the rest of my life to try to pay for it." I asked if Mr. Evans's family was helping to cover her legal expenses. She shook her head no.
An earlier legal team quit after Ms. Holmes could not pay them. One pre-sentencing report by the government put her legal fees at more than $ 30 million. Ms. Holmes did not detail how those fees would be paid, and her current representatives at Williams & Connolly did not respond to emails asking about her financial arrangement.
Their toddler, William, recently had a 105-degree fever, the couple said. They raced him to the emergency room. The first thing the attending doctor said was, "You look a lot like that horrible woman." The doctor added, Ms. Holmes said, "I'm sure you're a better person than she is." Ms. Holmes continued, "Then he said, 'Are you Elizabeth Holmes?' And I said, 'Yes,' and he said, 'I am so sorry,' and I said, 'Don't be, all you know is what you've read."'
By Billy's father, William L. Evans's tally, there are "over 67,600,600" web results on Ms. Holmes, all of them negative, compared with "21 million results, many of which are positive" for Osama bin Laden, figures he wrote in a letter to the court. Ms. Holmes's mother, Noel, said she stopped cold in a Barnes & Noble when she saw her daughter characterized in a book display as a "paranoid sociopath" who is "devoid of conscience."
"Everybody got on the train that Elizabeth was evil, and it was great copy, and they took it and ran with it," Ms. Holmes's father, Christian, said.
Ms. Holmes's defenders, stretching back to childhood, said in letters to the court, and in conversations with me, that the feverish coverage of Ms. Holmes's downfall felt like a witch trial, less rooted in what actually happened at Theranos, and more of a message to ambitious women everywhere. Don't girl boss too close to the sun, or this could happen to you ...
"There's an unspoken lesson for female executives: you're allowed to be successful but not too successful," Jackie Lamping, a Kappa Alpha Theta sorority sister of Ms. Holmes at Stanford, wrote in a letter to Judge Davila, who oversaw the trial.
Ms. Holmes said she believed that making herself the poster girl for women in tech put a huge target on her back. She regrets being the subject of fawning magazine covers (though I imagine the authors of those stories regret it more). "I never lost sight of the mission but I think I did of the narrative," she said. "The story became this story that was totally snowballed away from what we were actually talking about."
Of course, Ms. Holmes also tried to control the story, often with scorched-earth tactics. She is typically docile, but got visibly upset when I asked about how the lawyer David Boies had threatened litigation against people who spoke negatively about Theranos. Alex Shultz, the father of the Theranos employee turned whistle-blower Tyler Shultz, and the son of George Shultz, told the court that Tyler "slept with a knife under his pillow every night thinking that someone was going to come and murder him in the night." (Ms. Holmes and Mr. Boies parted ways and she replaced her legal team in 2016.)
"I'm still thinking about the journalists being intimidated," Ms. Holmes said after we'd moved on to several other topics. "As I said at trial, I completely wish we'd handled that situation differently." She tears up. "I take responsibility for it because I was C.E.O. of the company and at the end of the day, that's that, but I don't believe in people being treated that way, period." (In response to Ms. Holmes seemingly casting blame on her legal team, a spokeswoman for Mr. Boies texted, "Whatever.")
Ms. Holmes chooses her words carefully when I ask if the prominent men who invested and joined the Theranos board were drawn to the start-up partly because the founder was an attractive young woman. "A lot of people were attracted to this for their own reasons," she said.
What does she think would have happened if she hadn't garnered so much early attention as the second coming of Silicon Valley? Ms. Holmes does not blink: "We would've seen through our vision." In other words, she thinks if she'd spent more time quietly working on her inventions and less time on a stage promoting the company, she would have revolutionized health care by now.
This kind of misguided talk is the one consistent thread in my reporting on who Ms. Holmes really is. She repeatedly says that Theranos wasn't a get-rich-quick scheme for her; she never sold her shares and didn't come out of it wealthy. Ms. Holmes's parents said they borrowed $ 500,000 against their Washington, D.C.-area home to post Ms. Holmes's bond.
I can't shake an earlier story that Mr. Evans relayed. In the waning days of Theranos, Ms. Holmes got a dog, a Siberian husky named Balto. Last year, when a mountain lion carried Balto away from the front porch, Ms. Holmes spent 16 hours searching in the woods, digging through brambles and poison oak, hoping to find him alive. Everyone knew Balto was dead, but Ms. Holmes kept searching. The relentlessness. The certainty. The fanaticism. It's the same way Ms. Holmes kept hanging on at Theranos.
Over antioxidant smoothies, Ms. Holmes told me she has ideas for Covid testing, drawing on her work in a Singapore lab as a college student during the SARS outbreak.
She maintains the idealistic delusion of a 19-year-old, never mind that she's 39 with a fraud conviction, telling me she is still working on health care-related inventions and would continue to do so behind bars.
"I still dream about being able to contribute in that space," Ms. Holmes said. "I still feel the same calling to it as I always did and I still think the need is there."
If your head is exploding at how divorced from reality this sounds, that's kind of the point. When Ms. Holmes uses the messianic vernacular of tech, I get the sense that she truly believes that she could have -- and, in fact, she still could -- change the world, and she doesn't much care if we believe her or not. "Liz is not a natural born leader; she is more of a zealot than a showman," Mr. Evans wrote to Judge Davila.
It's this steadfast (or unhinged?) belief that has kept Ms. Holmes fighting, even though a guilty plea would have likely helped her chances of remaining free. "She could have said, 'Yes, I lied, and I tried my best to save mankind, but this happened in my enthusiasm,"' her father told me. "But she has taken the position that she is not guilty and that takes guts."
Ms. Holmes eventually found her beloved husky, Balto, in the woods. But by then the dog was gone, torn apart by the mountain lion.
***
The last day I spent with Ms. Holmes, I parked and walked up the long driveway to find her and Mr. Evans embracing in the kitchen. They looked like they were slow dancing, swaying slightly, the two of them against the world. Fireplace burning. Seagulls flying overhead. Teddy drooling in his crate. Babies (plural) sleeping.
Mr. Evans left for a workout, saying he doesn't want "dad bod." Ms. Holmes and I sat at the kitchen table alone, talking. She didn't seem like a hero or a villain. She seemed, like most people, somewhere in between. As Ms. Holmes broke down thinking about what her children will be like in 11 years, I kept going back to her central promise at Theranos: The technology that she invented would, in her words, create "a world in which no one ever has to say goodbye too soon."
And there she was, preparing to do just that.
That Friday, the couple were getting ready to host a group of friends from the Bay Area. They invited me to stay. They repeatedly invited me to come back, to bring my family. We could all go to the zoo together.
I appreciated their hospitality, but I didn't fully understand it. Usually interview subjects can't wait to get rid of me.
Then I realized why they kept opening the door wider. Ms. Holmes is unlike anyone I've ever met -- modest but mesmerizing. If you are in her presence, it is impossible not to believe her, not to be taken with her and be taken in by her. Liz Holmes and Billy Evans know that. I politely declined their invitation.
Audio produced by Kate Winslett.
Audio produced by Kate Winslett.
Photograph Last year, Elizabeth Holmes was convicted of criminal fraud charges related to her company, Theranos. Her legal team seeks to enable her to remain free pending an appeal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1); From top: Elizabeth Holmes and her partner, Billy Evans, with their two children; the blood-test device that Theranos called Edison; and Ms. Holmes in an interview in 2015. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP CHEUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES; DAVID ORRELL/NBCUNIVERSAL, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (BU6); Below, Ramesh Balwani, Ms. Holmes's top lieutenant at Theranos and a former boyfriend, who was found guilty of wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud, began a 13-year prison sentence last month. Bottom, in November, Ms. Holmes was sentenced to more than 11 years in prison, but her report date has been delayed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE AND BELOW, JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Criminal sentences; Wire fraud; Investments; Prisons; Appeals; Startups

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups

People: Holmes, Elizabeth

Company / organization: Name: Theranos Inc; NAICS: 339113; Name: Wall Street Journal; NAICS: 513110, 516210

Title: Liz Holmes Wants You to Forget About Elizabeth:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: May 7, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2810282538

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/liz-holmes-wants-you-forget-about-elizabeth/docview/2810282538/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 7, 2023

Last updated: 2023-06-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Pipeline of Abortion Pills Flowing to the U.S.: [National Desk]

Author: Mccann, Allison

Publication info: Mccann, Allison. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pipeline-abortion-pills-flowing-u-s/docview/2802715493/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A few times each month, a 10" x 15" padded FedEx envelope arrives in Mark's mailbox in eastern Florida. He doesn't know when the packages will arrive, only that each shipment usually contains about a dozen individual mifepristone pills and several 10-packs of misoprostol, the two drugs used in a medication abortion.
He repackages the pills -- one mifepristone and four misoprostol each -- and then prints a one-page sheet of instructions before shipping the medication to U.S. customers who have placed orders from medside24.com, a website based in Kazakhstan that sells abortion pills exclusively.
Mark is one link in a supply chain for abortion pills sold outside of the formal U.S. health care system -- a market that has expanded significantly in the last year and that includes both overseas manufacturers and ad hoc distribution networks in the United States.
"I'm not the dealer, I'm just forwarding the mail for someone," Mark told me in February. (Because distributing medication from overseas is illegal, many people interviewed for this article asked to be identified by first name or first initial only.) "I'm not for abortion but I'm not entirely against it," he added. "On some level, it's none of my business."
Websites selling pills offer a convenient -- though legally dubious -- route for people looking for a way around state-level abortion bans. These sellers stand only to gain from efforts to restrict medication abortion, experts told me, including a federal appeals court's decision on Wednesday to reimpose restrictions on abortion pills nationwide that the Food and Drug Administration had eased in recent years.
That decision came after a federal judge in a lower court ruled to invalidate the agency's approval of mifepristone entirely. On Friday, the U.S. Supreme Court temporarily stayed the ruling.
"Patients are either going to be forced to use a less effective regimen, or it could potentially push people into unregulated informal networks," said Greer Donley, a law professor at the University of Pittsburgh who focuses on abortion. "Those are the two consequences. It's not going to stop people from obtaining abortions."
Tens of thousands of patients seeking to terminate a pregnancy have already gone online in search of pills in the nine months since the court's Dobbs decision overturning Roe v. Wade. Often, it is the only option for those unable to travel for clinic-based care.
For years, the advocacy group Aid Access has provided pills to U.S. patients at little or no cost. But people have increasingly turned to other groups and to for-profit sellers like Mark's employer for faster delivery.
In the span of two weeks in February, one online seller distributed more than 300 abortion pill orders, primarily to people in Southeastern states where access is restricted.
In interviews over the past few months, sellers, shippers and patients described how the online market for abortion pills is operating -- and how it has grown since the Dobbs decision.
Overseas suppliers appear on track to provide abortion pills to around 100,000 people in the United States in the year after the decision, or enough pills to cover about 10 percent of the country's annual abortions.
If prosecutors wanted to crack down on pills by mail, it is unclear how they would do so. The federal government is responsible for both the postal service and customs enforcement -- rooting out individual shipments of illicit abortion pills among the millions of packages a day processed at the country's international mail facilities is unlikely to be a priority, experts said.
Even anti-abortion groups say that it will be difficult to control this market. "It's very amorphous," said Sue Liebel, the director of state affairs at Susan B. Anthony Pro-Life America. "States are looking at ways to determine how they can keep these sellers out of their state, just as they would brick-and-mortar clinics. But it's harder to regulate if it's online."
An influx of orders
Twenty-five states and Washington, D.C., allowed abortion pills to be prescribed via telehealth and sent through the mail legally under F.D.A. guidelines issued during the pandemic and made permanent last year.
But patients seeking pills by mail in other states have had few choices but to look online to overseas providers for access to the drugs. Abortion pills are typically used for patients who are less than 12 weeks into pregnancy.
The most established and sought-after option for online pills is Aid Access, a service run by Dr. Rebecca Gomperts, a Dutch physician and activist. It has provided Americans with pills since 2018. The second is Las Libres, a Mexican activist group that works with U.S. volunteers who distribute pills free of charge.
For many patients, figuring out how to get pills begins with Plan C, an advocacy group that acts as a clearinghouse for online pill providers. Today, Plan C lists 23 for-profit sellers, largely based in India, with about two dozen more waiting to be verified and listed.
Even though Plan C has boosted the online sellers' visibility and legitimacy, they remain a relatively small piece of the landscape.
Through February, Aid Access was receiving an average of 254 requests a day from people in the United States, up from 83 requests from before the Dobbs decision. Las Libres said it had received around 100 daily requests through the end of March, down from around 200 per day in December. (Not all requests will end in shipments.)
The online sellers I spoke with, by comparison, said they were each receiving anywhere from five to 45 orders per day.
Where the advocacy groups see injustice, the online sellers see a lucrative market. A medical termination of pregnancy kit, or "M.T.P. kit," retails for as little as $ 5 in India but can be resold in the U.S. for more than 50 times as much.
To better understand how the sellers operate, I placed orders with four sites listed on Plan C, identifying myself as a reporter for The New York Times. Through one, I connected with Mahiwal, who said he answers customer queries over WhatsApp from Punjab for more than 80 websites that sell pills.
Mahiwal asked if I would like to become a shipper myself -- for $ 2,000 he would send me 10 abortion pill kits, which could be resold for $ 350 each. He would handle the customer orders, and I would mail the packages and keep the profit. "U can buy Tesla with us," he messaged me, assuring me of the easy money.
A Cleveland, Miss., man who goes by Guru is one shipper who took Mahiwal up on his offer. Guru said he got connected with buymtpkits.com through a relative in India who knew he was looking for work.
He ships 10 to 12 packages each day, for a total commission of about $ 40. "I thought, 'This seems easy,' I can do it from home. All I need is a printer," he said.
Dr. Gomperts, of Aid Access, sees little problem with merchants selling pills purely for profit. "I have the medical background, I have the scientific background, and it is a better service because of that," she said. "But to be honest, as long as the medication they're sending is real, who cares?"
Weighing the options
The U.S.-based shipper network has been crucial to growing the business of the overseas sellers, who win customers by offering quick or even overnight delivery of the pills.
For most patients, the cost of the service remains the most important factor in deciding where to get pills online. But shipping speed has become a priority too.
"I did consider Aid Access, but I was afraid by the time I got it I would be too far along. I didn't want to take any chances," said J., a 31-year-old mother of three from Indiana.
J. ended up choosing a seller called secureabortionpills.com. "It said fairly fast shipping, and it was one of the cheaper options. So I took a shot with them," she said. She paid $ 310 and got a USPS tracking number via email. The pills arrived in four days.
A major difference in ordering from online sellers, compared with telehealth or in-clinic abortions, is that there is no physician oversight. Instead, many patients turn to resources like the Miscarriage and Abortion Hotline or lengthy Reddit threads with advice on how to self-manage an abortion with pills: when to take them, what to do for pain, how long to expect bleeding, cramping and other possible side effects.
While opponents of abortion argue that self-managing with pills is dangerous -- and self-managing with pills from an unregulated overseas supplier even more so -- there have been no publicly reported instances of serious complications for patients who took pills bought online.
Overall, abortion pills are exceptionally safe and effective, though some experts raised concerns about the possibility of patients receiving ineffective or damaged pills from overseas, especially misoprostol, which is susceptible to degradation in heat or moisture. Even the F.D.A.-approved regimen has a 3 to 5 percent chance of resulting in an unsuccessful termination in the first trimester.
And while abortion-rights groups are concerned about efforts to further restrict the availability of legal pills, the outcome of the F.D.A. lawsuit could ultimately drive interest in extralegal options.
"With each outrageous act of a court or legislature, that provides us with another opportunity to tell people about this robust alternate supply network that exists in the U.S.," said Elisa Wells, the co-founder of Plan C.
Sidestepping the regulators
Most online providers, including Aid Access and to a lesser extent Las Libres, source abortion pills from India, the world's largest manufacturer of generic drugs.
Abortion pills technically require a prescription in India, but they can be purchased over the counter at local pharmacies and online marketplaces like IndiaMart and MedPlusMart.
"The system that governs how prescription drugs are dispensed is very leaky," said Dinesh Thakur, a drug-safety advocate and former executive at the Indian drugmaker Ranbaxy Laboratories.
One supplier working for MedPlusMart, Ishan, told me he ships around 5,000 M.T.P. kits a month to the United States on behalf of privateemma.com, a seller listed on Plan C.
Indian pharmaceutical companies are producing the kits for the home market -- there are an estimated 12 million medication abortions outside of health facilities each year in India -- and they take little interest in how their products end up overseas.
Synokem Pharmaceuticals, a New Delhi-based manufacturer, said it was not "directly or indirectly" exporting its products to the United States. "We are not F.D.A.-approved, so no person can supply our products to the U.S. Not even an online pharmacy," said Manmohan Juyal, the company's senior manager for international business.
But at least two M.T.P. kits that Synokem manufactures -- A-Kare and Killpreg -- are sold by sites listed on Plan C. Ms. Wells estimated that Plan C has received about a quarter of the available global brands of M.T.P. kits through its own orders.
In most circumstances, importing drugs into the United States for personal use is illegal -- but the F.D.A. does make exceptions, including in situations when "the drug is for use for a serious condition for which effective treatment is not available in the United States." The F.D.A. declined to comment on whether mifepristone would meet this requirement.
Patients in states where abortion is banned may get away with ordering pills online for personal use, though they could face other charges. A woman in Texas last year was charged with murder for self-managing an abortion before the district attorney eventually dropped the case.
There is less ambiguity for the distributors -- they are acting illegally. In 2020, the Justice Department prosecuted and a judge sentenced a New York woman to two years of probation and fined her $ 10,000 for supplying abortion pills from India to U.S. customers.
But enforcement remains rare. Over the years, the occasional Aid Access package has been confiscated by customs agents, but the service has remained largely untouched. Experts say a federal crackdown on patients ordering abortion pills -- even those arriving from overseas -- is unlikely.
"In this climate, it's almost certain the F.D.A. is not going to go after people who are doing this," Ms. Donley, the abortion law expert, said.
Karan Deep Singh contributed reporting from New Delhi, and Vo Kieu Bao Uyen from Hanoi.
Photograph medside24.com Manufactured in Vietnam. Sold in Russia. Shipped from Port Orange, Fla.; As abortion pills become harder to obtain in some states, patients are finding alternative ways to get them. (A14); Cody, left, a 19-year-old student in Wooster, Ohio, had been waiting for months to order abortion pills online, but most of what was available was out of their price range. When they saw a seller offering pills for just $ 100 in early February, they immediately placed an order. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MADDIE MCGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14-A15); privateemma.com Manufactured and sold in India. Shipped from Las Vegas.; buymtpkits.com Manufactured and sold in India. Shipped from Cleveland, Miss. (A15) This article appeared in print on page A1, A14, A15.

Subject: Pregnancy; Telemedicine; Abortion; Advocacy; Supply chains; Pharmaceuticals

Business indexing term: Subject: Supply chains

Location: United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/14/multimedia/inside-the-online-market-for-overseas-abortion-pills.html

Title: A Pipeline of Abortion Pills Flowing to the U.S.:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 19, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2802715493

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pipeline-abortion-pills-flowing-u-s/docview/2802715493/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Inside the Online Market for Overseas Abortion Pills

Author: McCann, Allison

Publication info: McCann, Allison. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-online-market-overseas-abortion-pills/docview/2802562763/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
A few times each month, a 10-by-15-inch padded FedEx envelope arrives in Mark’s mailbox in eastern Florida. He doesn’t know when the packages will arrive, only that each shipment usually contains about a dozen individual mifepristone pills and several 10-packs of misoprostol, the two drugs used in a medication abortion.
He repackages the pills — one mifepristone and four misoprostol each — and then prints a one-page sheet of instructions before shipping the medication to U.S. customers who have placed orders from medside24.com, a website based in Kazakhstan that sells abortion pills exclusively.
Mark is one link in a supply chain for abortion pills sold outside of the formal U.S. health care system — a market that has expanded significantly in the last year and that includes both overseas manufacturers and ad hoc distribution networks in the United States.
“I’m not the dealer; I’m just forwarding the mail for someone,” Mark told me in February. (Because distributing medication from overseas is illegal, many people interviewed for this article asked to be identified by first name or first initial only.) “I’m not for abortion, but I’m not entirely against it,” he added. “On some level, it’s none of my business.”
Websites selling pills offer a convenient — though legally dubious — route for people looking for a way around state-level abortion bans. These sellers stand only to gain from efforts to restrict medication abortion, experts said, including a federal appeals court’s decision April 12 to reimpose restrictions on abortion pills nationwide that the Food and Drug Administration had eased in recent years.
That decision came after a federal judge in a lower court ruled to invalidate the agency’s approval of mifepristone entirely. On Friday, the U.S. Supreme Court temporarily stayed the ruling.
“Patients are either going to be forced to use a less effective regimen, or it could potentially push people into unregulated informal networks,” said Greer Donley, a law professor at the University of Pittsburgh who focuses on abortion. “Those are the two consequences. It’s not going to stop people from obtaining abortions.”
Tens of thousands of patients seeking to terminate a pregnancy have already gone online in search of pills in the nine months since the court’s Dobbs decision overturning Roe v. Wade. Often, it is the only option for those unable to travel for clinic-based care.
For years, the advocacy group Aid Access has provided pills to U.S. patients at little or no cost. But people have increasingly turned to other groups and to for-profit sellers like Mark’s employer for faster delivery.
In the span of two weeks in February, one online seller distributed more than 300 abortion pill orders, primarily to people in Southeastern states where access is restricted.
In interviews over the past few months, sellers, shippers and patients described how the online market for abortion pills is operating — and how it has grown since the Dobbs decision.
Overseas suppliers appear on track to provide abortion pills to around 100,000 people in the United States in the year after the decision, or enough pills to cover about 10% of the country’s annual abortions.
If prosecutors wanted to crack down on pills by mail, it is unclear how they would do so. The federal government is responsible for both the postal service and customs enforcement; rooting out individual shipments of illicit abortion pills among the millions of packages a day processed at the country’s international mail facilities is unlikely to be a priority, experts said.
Even anti-abortion groups say that it will be difficult to control this market. “It’s very amorphous,” said Sue Liebel, the director of state affairs at Susan B. Anthony Pro-Life America. “States are looking at ways to determine how they can keep these sellers out of their state, just as they would brick-and-mortar clinics. But it’s harder to regulate if it’s online.”
An Influx of Orders
Twenty-five states and Washington, D.C., allowed abortion pills to be prescribed via telehealth and sent through the mail legally under FDA guidelines issued during the pandemic and made permanent last year.
But patients seeking pills by mail in other states have had few choices but to look online to overseas providers for access to the drugs. Abortion pills are typically used for patients who are less than 12 weeks into pregnancy.
The most established and sought-after option for online pills is Aid Access, a service run by Dr. Rebecca Gomperts, a Dutch physician and activist. It has provided Americans with pills since 2018. The second is Las Libres, a Mexican activist group that works with U.S. volunteers who distribute pills free of charge.
For many patients, figuring out how to get pills begins with Plan C, an advocacy group that acts as a clearinghouse for online pill providers. Today, Plan C lists 23 for-profit sellers, largely based in India, with about two dozen more waiting to be verified and listed.
Even though Plan C has boosted the online sellers’ visibility and legitimacy, they remain a relatively small piece of the landscape.
Through February, Aid Access was receiving an average of 254 requests a day from people in the United States, up from 83 requests from before the Dobbs decision. Las Libres said it had received around 100 daily requests through the end of March, down from around 200 per day in December. (Not all requests will end in shipments.)
The online sellers I spoke with, by comparison, said they were each receiving anywhere from five to 45 orders per day.
Where the advocacy groups see injustice, the online sellers see a lucrative market. A medical termination of pregnancy kit, or “MTP kit,” retails for as little as $5 in India but can be resold in the U.S. for more than 50 times as much.
To better understand how the sellers operate, I placed orders with four sites listed on Plan C, identifying myself as a reporter for The New York Times. Through one, I connected with Mahiwal, who said he answers customer queries over WhatsApp from Punjab for more than 80 websites that sell pills.
Mahiwal asked if I would like to become a shipper myself; for $2,000, he would send me 10 abortion pill kits, which could be resold for $350 each. He would handle the customer orders, and I would mail the packages and keep the profit. “U can buy Tesla with us,” he messaged me, assuring me of the easy money.
A Cleveland, Mississippi, man who goes by Guru is one shipper who took Mahiwal up on his offer. Guru said he got connected with buymtpkits.com through a relative in India who knew he was looking for work.
He ships 10 to 12 packages each day, for a total commission of about $40. “I thought, ‘This seems easy.’ I can do it from home. All I need is a printer,” he said.
Gomperts, of Aid Access, sees little problem with merchants selling pills purely for profit. “I have the medical background, I have the scientific background, and it is a better service because of that,” she said. “But to be honest, as long as the medication they’re sending is real, who cares?”
Weighing the Options
The U.S.-based shipper network has been crucial to growing the business of the overseas sellers, who win customers by offering quick or even overnight delivery of the pills.
For most patients, the cost of the service remains the most important factor in deciding where to get pills online. But shipping speed has become a priority too.
“I did consider Aid Access, but I was afraid by the time I got it, I would be too far along. I didn’t want to take any chances,” said J., a 31-year-old mother of three from Indiana.
J. ended up choosing a seller called secureabortionpills.com. “It said fairly fast shipping, and it was one of the cheaper options. So I took a shot with them,” she said. She paid $310 and got a USPS tracking number via email. The pills arrived in four days.
A major difference in ordering from online sellers, compared with telehealth or in-clinic abortions, is that there is no physician oversight. Instead, many patients turn to resources like the Miscarriage and Abortion Hotline or lengthy Reddit threads with advice on how to self-manage an abortion with pills: when to take them; what to do for pain; and how long to expect bleeding, cramping and other possible side effects.
While opponents of abortion argue that self-managing with pills is dangerous — and self-managing with pills from an unregulated overseas supplier even more so — there have been no publicly reported instances of serious complications for patients who took pills bought online.
Overall, abortion pills are exceptionally safe and effective, though some experts raised concerns about the possibility of patients receiving ineffective or damaged pills from overseas, especially misoprostol, which is susceptible to degradation in heat or moisture. Even the FDA-approved regimen has a 3% to 5% chance of resulting in an unsuccessful termination in the first trimester.
And while abortion rights groups are concerned about efforts to further restrict the availability of legal pills, the outcome of the FDA lawsuit could ultimately drive interest in extralegal options.
“With each outrageous act of a court or legislature, that provides us with another opportunity to tell people about this robust alternate supply network that exists in the U.S.,” said Elisa Wells, the co-founder of Plan C.
Sidestepping the Regulators
Most online providers, including Aid Access and to a lesser extent Las Libres, source abortion pills from India, the world’s largest manufacturer of generic drugs.
Abortion pills technically require a prescription in India, but they can be purchased over the counter at local pharmacies and online marketplaces like IndiaMart and MedPlusMart.
“The system that governs how prescription drugs are dispensed is very leaky,” said Dinesh Thakur, a drug safety advocate and former executive at the Indian drugmaker Ranbaxy Laboratories.
One supplier working for MedPlusMart, Ishan, said he ships around 5,000 MTP kits a month to the United States on behalf of privateemma.com, a seller listed on Plan C.
Indian pharmaceutical companies are producing the kits for the home market — there are an estimated 12 million medication abortions outside of health facilities each year in India — and they take little interest in how their products end up overseas.
Synokem Pharmaceuticals, a New Delhi-based manufacturer, said it was not “directly or indirectly” exporting its products to the United States. “We are not FDA-approved, so no person can supply our products to the U.S. — not even an online pharmacy,” said Manmohan Juyal, the company’s senior manager for international business.
But at least two MTP kits that Synokem manufactures — A-Kare and Killpreg — are sold by sites listed on Plan C. Wells estimated that Plan C has received about one-quarter of the available global brands of MTP kits through its own orders.
In most circumstances, importing drugs into the United States for personal use is illegal — but the FDA does make exceptions, including in situations when “the drug is for use for a serious condition for which effective treatment is not available in the United States.” The FDA declined to comment on whether mifepristone would meet this requirement.
Patients in states where abortion is banned might get away with ordering pills online for personal use, though they could face other charges. A woman in Texas last year was charged with murder for self-managing an abortion before the district attorney eventually dropped the case.
There is less ambiguity for the distributors; they are acting illegally. In 2020, the Justice Department prosecuted and a judge sentenced a New York woman to two years of probation and fined her $10,000 for supplying abortion pills from India to U.S. customers.
But enforcement remains rare. Over the years, the occasional Aid Access package has been confiscated by customs agents, but the service has remained largely untouched. Experts say a federal crackdown on patients ordering abortion pills — even those arriving from overseas — is unlikely.
“In this climate, it’s almost certain the FDA is not going to go after people who are doing this,” said Donley, the abortion law expert.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Customer services; Pregnancy; Telemedicine; Abortion; Advocacy

Business indexing term: Subject: Customer services

Location: New York; United States--US; India

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Food & Drug Administration--FDA; NAICS: 926150

Identifier / keyword: Ranbaxy Laboratories; Mississippi; Florida; United States; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Netherlands; Supreme Court (Us); Supply Chain; Pregnancy And Childbirth; Punjab (India); International Trade And World Market; Justice Department; Appeals Courts (Us); Suits And Litigation (Civil); Kazakhstan; Drugstores; Food And Drug Administration; University Of Pittsburgh; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Postal Service (Us); Health Insurance And Managed Care; Postal Service And Post Offices; Whatsapp Inc; Reddit Inc; Decisions And Verdicts; Customs And Border Protection (Us); Abortion Drugs; Cleveland (Miss); Texas; Advertising And Marketing; New Delhi (India); Computers And The Internet; E Commerce; Antitrust Laws And Competition Issues; Law And Legislation; Delhi (India); Punjab (Pakistan); Fedex Corporation; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Abortion; Corporate Social Responsibility; Illegal Immigration; Political Prisoners; States (Us); Telemedicine; Mexico; Coronavirus Aid, Relief, And Economic Security Act (2020); Indiana; Mifeprex (Ru 486); India; Washington (Dc); Drug Abuse And Traffic; Colleges And Universities; Doctors; New York Times

Title: Inside the Online Market for Overseas Abortion Pills

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 18, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-18T20:28: 11Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2802562763

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/inside-online-market-overseas-abortion-pills/docview/2802562763/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-21

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

E.P.A. Seeks Rules to Pump Up Sales of Electric Cars: [National Desk]

Author: Davenport, Coral

Publication info: Davenport, Coral. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/e-p-seeks-rules-pump-up-sales-electric-cars/docview/2799965127/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Biden administration is proposing rules to ensure that two-thirds of new cars and a quarter of new heavy trucks sold in the United States by 2032 are all-electric.
WASHINGTON -- The Biden administration on Wednesday proposed the nation's most ambitious climate regulations to date, two plans designed to ensure two-thirds of new passenger cars and a quarter of new heavy trucks sold in the United States are all-electric by 2032.
The new rules would require nothing short of a revolution in the U.S. auto industry, a moment in some ways as significant as the June morning in 1896 when Henry Ford took his "horseless carriage" for a test run and changed American life and industry.
If the two rules from the Environmental Protection Agency are enacted as proposed, they would put the world's largest economy on track to slash its planet-warming emissions at the pace that scientists say is required of all nations in order to avert the most devastating impacts of climate change.
The government's challenge to automakers is monumental. Last year, all-electric vehicles accounted for just 5.8 percent of new cars sold in the United States. All-electric trucks were even more rare, making up fewer than 2 percent of new heavy trucks sold.
Nearly all major automakers have already invested billions in producing electric vehicles at the same time as they continue to manufacture the conventional vehicles powered by gasoline, which deliver their profits. The proposed regulations would require them to invest more heavily and reorient their processes in ways that would essentially spell the end of the internal combustion engine.
The E.P.A. is "proposing the strongest-ever federal pollution technology standards for both cars and trucks," said Michael S. Regan, the agency's administrator, in remarks outside E.P.A. headquarters on Wednesday. "Together, today's actions will accelerate our ongoing transition to a clean vehicle future, tackle the climate crisis head on and improve air quality in poor communities all across the country."
"This is historic news," he said.
The E.P.A. cannot mandate that carmakers sell a certain number of electric vehicles. But under the Clean Air Act, the agency can limit the pollution generated by the total number of cars each manufacturer sells. And the agency has set that limit so tightly that the only way manufacturers can comply is to sell a certain percentage of zero-emissions vehicles. Each model year that the rule is in effect, car companies will report to the federal government the average greenhouse emissions of all new cars sold. Companies that fall short of the standard could be penalized in different ways, including fines of billions of dollars.
The proposed regulations will surely face legal challenges from those who see them as government overreach. A group of about a dozen Republican attorneys general has filed lawsuits against the Biden administration's climate polices, and one of its leaders, Attorney General Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia, suggested the group would fight the newest proposals.
"This administration is hell bent on destroying America's energy security and independence by making us dependent on resources and components that can come only from abroad," Mr. Morrisey said. "Over the coming weeks, we'll be taking a closer look at the proposed rule, and we'll be ready to once again lead the charge against wrongheaded energy proposals like these."
The proposed tailpipe pollution limits for cars, first reported by The New York Times on Saturday, are designed to ensure that 67 percent of sales of new light-duty passenger vehicles, from sedans to pickup trucks, will be all-electric by 2032. Additionally, 46 percent of sales of new medium-duty trucks, such as delivery vans, will be all-electric or use some other form of zero-emissions technology by the same year, according to the plan.
The E.P.A. also proposed a companion rule governing heavy-duty vehicles, designed so that half of new buses and a quarter of new heavy trucks sold, including eighteen-wheeler big rigs, would be all-electric by 2032.
Combined, the two rules would eliminate the equivalent of carbon dioxide emissions generated over two years by all sectors of the economy in the United States, the second-biggest polluting country on the planet after China.
But some autoworkers and manufacturers fear that the transition to all-electric vehicles envisioned by the Biden administration goes too far, too fast and could result in job losses and lower profits.
While major automakers have invested heavily in electrification, they are apprehensive about customer demand for the pricier all-electric models, the supply of batteries and the speed with which a national network of charging stations can be created.
Autoworkers fear job losses, since electric vehicles require fewer than half the number of workers to assemble than cars with internal combustion engines. Labor unions are particularly concerned because many new electric vehicle plants and battery factories are being built in southern states that are politically hostile to unionized labor and where wages are relatively low.
"There is no good reason why electric vehicle manufacturing can't be the gateway to the middle class that auto jobs have been for generations of union autoworkers," Shawn Fain, president of the Detroit-based United Auto Workers, said in a statement. "But the early signs of this industry are worrying, prioritizing corporate greed over economic justice."
Union workers and car manufacturers have been expressing their various fears directly to the president since 2021, when Mr. Biden announced an executive order directing government policies to ensure that 50 percent of all new passenger vehicle sales be electric by 2030.
As word spread last week that Mr. Biden's new regulations were designed to go still further, some automakers pushed back.
John Bozzella, president of the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, which represents large U.S. and foreign automakers, questioned how the E.P.A. could justify "exceeding the carefully considered and data-driven goal announced by the administration in the executive order."
"Yes, America's transition to an electric and low-carbon transportation future is well underway," Mr. Bozzella said in a statement. "E.V. and battery manufacturing is ramping up across the country because automakers have self-financed billions to expand vehicle electrification. It's also true that E.P.A.'s proposed emissions plan is aggressive by any measure."
"Remember this: A lot has to go right for this massive, and unprecedented, change in our automotive market and industrial base to succeed," Mr. Bozzella said.
At least one American automaker, Tesla, is poised to emerge as a singular winner under the new rules because it produces only electric cars. Other automakers that have lagged in electrification technology have suggested that compliance would be a struggle but none have yet said they would oppose the rules.
Stellantis, formerly Fiat Chrysler -- which makes Dodge, Ram and Jeep vehicles -- was ranked last year by the E.P.A. as the nation's worst auto company in terms of fuel efficiency.
In a statement, Eric Mayne, a spokesman for Stellantis, said the company was surprised by the proposed rules, since they are so much more ambitious than Mr. Biden's previously announced target of 50 percent all-electric new vehicle sales by 2030. But for now, Mr. Mayne said, "We look forward to a constructive dialogue with the agency as the process moves forward."
Engineers and scientists at an E.P.A. automotive lab have been working over the past year to determine how much electric vehicle technology is likely to advance in the next decade in order to set the strongest, achievable tailpipe emissions limits.
David Haugen, the director of the lab, said that auto companies have always complained about new environmental and emissions standards. "We've heard that from them for 50 years, and then the companies have done a great job meeting them each time the standards came in, which gives us confidence that this one is also going to go well," he said.
Tensions between the auto industry, autoworkers and the Biden administration played out over the past week, with the administration forced to rearrange its rollout of the proposal, according to three people familiar with what happened.
Officials had originally planned for Mr. Regan to announce the policies in Detroit, surrounded by American-made all-electric vehicles.
But as auto executives and the United Auto Workers learned the details of the proposed regulations, some grew uneasy about publicly supporting it, according to the people familiar with their thinking. The setting was moved from Detroit to the E.P.A. headquarters in Washington. No one from the United Auto Workers attended, according to the organization's spokesman, although Mr. Bozzella and representatives from Ford, General Motors and Mercedes were there.
In an interview, Mr. Regan acknowledged that some auto executives and leaders of the United Auto Workers had expressed anxiety over the proposals, adding that they could be amended to assuage those fears.
"We're very mindful that this is a proposal, and we want to give as much flexibility possible," he said. The agency will accept public comments on the proposed rules before they are finalized next year. The rules would take effect starting with model year 2027.
Environmentalists praised Mr. Biden for delivering on a promise he made during his first days in office, when he called climate change a "moral imperative, an economic imperative" that would be central to all his decision-making.
A 2021 report by the International Energy Agency found that nations would have to stop sales of new gasoline-powered cars by 2035 to keep average global temperatures from increasing 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels. Beyond that point, scientists say, the effects of catastrophic heat waves, flooding, drought, crop failures and species extinction would become significantly harder for humanity to handle. The planet has already warmed by an average of about 1.1 degrees Celsius.
Mr. Biden has pledged to cut the country's emissions in half by 2030 and to stop adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere by 2050. He took a major step toward meeting that target last summer, when he signed the Inflation Reduction Act. It includes $ 370 billion in spending over the next decade to fight climate change, including tax incentives up to $ 7,500 for the purchase of American-made electric vehicles.
That law is projected to help the United States cut its emissions by 40 percent by 2030 -- not quite enough to meet Mr. Biden's pledge. Experts said the new E.P.A. regulations, if enacted as proposed, were needed to reach Mr. Biden's goal.
"The EPA standards are a huge step forward in addressing the largest source of climate pollution: transportation," said Luke Tonachel, senior director of the clean vehicles and buildings program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group.
A sharp rise in electric vehicles in the United States could mean wider availability and sales of electric vehicles outside its borders, Mr. Tonachel said. "This can be a world-leading standard that puts the world on a much-needed pathway for curbing global pollution from transportation," he said.
Laurence Tubiana, who helped broker the 2015 Paris climate accord and who is now chief executive of the European Climate Foundation, welcomed the E.P.A.'s action.
"This is confirmation to the world of the seriousness of the engagement of Joe Biden on climate change and keeps the U.S. as a front-runner on climate," Ms. Tubiana said. "It's resonating very well in Europe and the world."
Photograph The government's plan gives automakers a steep challenge. (A1); Lordstown Motors workers in Ohio. President Biden has pledged to cut the country's emissions in half by 2030. (PHOTOGRAPHS BYS MADDIE MCGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) This article appeared in print on page A1, A17.

Subject: Automobile industry; Manufacturing; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles; Emissions; Environmental policy; Climate change; Environmental regulations; Pollution control

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Manufacturing Automobile sales

Location: United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA; NAICS: 924110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/12/climate/biden-electric-cars-epa.html

Title: E.P.A. Seeks Rules to Pump Up Sales of Electric Cars:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 13, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2799965127

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/e-p-seeks-rules-pump-up-sales-electric-cars/docview/2799965127/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 13, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

EPA Lays Out Rules to Turbocharge Sales of Electric Cars and Trucks

Author: Davenport, Coral

Publication info: Davenport, Coral. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/epa-lays-out-rules-turbocharge-sales-electric/docview/2799832373/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — The Biden administration on Wednesday proposed the nation’s most ambitious climate regulations to date, two plans designed to ensure two-thirds of new passenger cars and one-quarter of new heavy trucks sold in the United States are all-electric by 2032.
The new rules would require nothing short of a revolution in the U.S. auto industry, a moment in some ways as significant as the June morning in 1896 when Henry Ford took his “horseless carriage” for a test run and changed American life and industry.
If the two rules from the Environmental Protection Agency are enacted as proposed, they would put the world’s largest economy on track to slash its planet-warming emissions at the pace that scientists say is required of all nations in order to avert the most devastating impacts of climate change.
The government’s challenge to automakers is monumental. Last year, all-electric vehicles accounted for just 5.8% of new cars sold in the United States. All-electric trucks were even more rare, making up fewer than 2% of new heavy trucks sold.
Nearly all major automakers have already invested billions in producing electric vehicles at the same time as they continue to manufacture the conventional vehicles powered by gasoline, which deliver their profits. The proposed regulations would require them to invest more heavily and reorient their processes in ways that would essentially spell the end of the internal combustion engine.
The EPA is “proposing the strongest-ever federal pollution technology standards for both cars and trucks,” EPA Administrator Michael Regan said in remarks outside EPA headquarters Wednesday. “Together, today’s actions will accelerate our ongoing transition to a clean vehicle future, tackle the climate crisis head on and improve air quality in poor communities all across the country.”
“This is historic news,” he said.
The EPA cannot mandate that carmakers sell a certain number of electric vehicles. But under the Clean Air Act, the agency can limit the pollution generated by the total number of cars each manufacturer sells. And the agency has set that limit so tightly that the only way manufacturers can comply is to sell a certain percentage of zero-emissions vehicles. Each model year that the rule is in effect, car companies will report to the federal government the average greenhouse emissions of all new cars sold. Companies that fall short of the standard could be penalized in different ways, including fines of billions of dollars.
The proposed regulations will surely face legal challenges from those who see them as government overreach. A group of about a dozen Republican attorneys general has filed lawsuits against the Biden administration’s climate polices, and one of its leaders, Attorney General Patrick Morrisey of West Virginia, suggested the group would fight the newest proposals.
“This administration is hellbent on destroying America’s energy security and independence by making us dependent on resources and components that can come only from abroad,” Morrisey said. “Over the coming weeks, we’ll be taking a closer look at the proposed rule, and we’ll be ready to once again lead the charge against wrongheaded energy proposals like these.”
The proposed tailpipe pollution limits for cars, first reported by The New York Times on Saturday, are designed to ensure that 67% of sales of new light-duty passenger vehicles, from sedans to pickup trucks, will be all-electric by 2032. Additionally, 46% of sales of new medium-duty trucks, such as delivery vans, will be all-electric or use some other form of zero-emissions technology by the same year, according to the plan.
The EPA also proposed a companion rule governing heavy-duty vehicles, designed so that half of new buses and one-quarter of new heavy trucks sold, including 18-wheeler big rigs, would be all-electric by 2032.
Combined, the two rules would eliminate the equivalent of carbon dioxide emissions generated over two years by all sectors of the economy in the United States, the second-biggest polluting country on the planet after China.
But some autoworkers and manufacturers fear that the transition to all-electric vehicles envisioned by the Biden administration goes too far, too fast and could result in job losses and lower profits.
While major automakers have invested heavily in electrification, they are apprehensive about customer demand for the pricier all-electric models; the supply of batteries; and the speed with which a national network of charging stations can be created.
Autoworkers fear job losses, since electric vehicles require fewer than half the number of workers to assemble than cars with internal combustion engines. Labor unions are particularly concerned because many new electric vehicle plants and battery factories are being built in Southern states that are politically hostile to unionized labor and where wages are relatively low.
“There is no good reason why electric vehicle manufacturing can’t be the gateway to the middle class that auto jobs have been for generations of union autoworkers,” Shawn Fain, president of the Detroit-based United Auto Workers, said in a statement. “But the early signs of this industry are worrying, prioritizing corporate greed over economic justice.”
Union workers and car manufacturers have been expressing their various fears directly to the president since 2021, when Biden announced an executive order directing government policies to ensure that 50% of all new passenger vehicle sales be electric by 2030.
As word spread last week that Biden’s new regulations were designed to go still further, some automakers pushed back.
John Bozzella, president of the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, which represents large U.S. and foreign automakers, questioned how the EPA could justify “exceeding the carefully considered and data-driven goal announced by the administration in the executive order.”
“Yes, America’s transition to an electric and low-carbon transportation future is well underway,” Bozzella said in a statement. “EV and battery manufacturing is ramping up across the country because automakers have self-financed billions to expand vehicle electrification. It’s also true that EPA’s proposed emissions plan is aggressive by any measure.
“Remember this: A lot has to go right for this massive, and unprecedented, change in our automotive market and industrial base to succeed,” Bozzella said.
At least one American automaker, Tesla, is poised to emerge as a singular winner under the new rules because it produces only electric cars. Other automakers that have lagged in electrification technology have suggested that compliance would be a struggle, but none have yet said they would oppose the rules.
Stellantis, formerly Fiat Chrysler — which makes Dodge, Ram and Jeep vehicles — was ranked last year by the EPA as the nation’s worst auto company in terms of fuel efficiency.
In a statement, Eric Mayne, a spokesperson for Stellantis, said the company was surprised by the proposed rules, since they are so much more ambitious than Biden’s previously announced target of 50% all-electric new vehicle sales by 2030. But for now, Mayne said, “We look forward to a constructive dialogue with the agency as the process moves forward.”
Engineers and scientists at an EPA automotive lab have been working over the past year to determine how much electric vehicle technology is likely to advance in the next decade in order to set the strongest, achievable tailpipe emissions limits.
David Haugen, the director of the lab, said that auto companies have always complained about new environmental and emissions standards. “We’ve heard that from them for 50 years, and then the companies have done a great job meeting them each time the standards came in, which gives us confidence that this one is also going to go well,” he said.
Tensions among the auto industry, autoworkers and the Biden administration played out over the past week, with the administration forced to rearrange its rollout of the proposal, according to three people familiar with what happened.
Officials had originally planned for Regan to announce the policies in Detroit, surrounded by U.S.-made all-electric vehicles.
But as auto executives and the UAW learned the details of the proposed regulations, some grew uneasy about publicly supporting it, according to the people familiar with their thinking. The setting was moved from Detroit to the EPA headquarters in Washington. No one from the UAW attended, according to the organization’s spokesperson, although Bozzella and representatives from Ford, General Motors and Mercedes were there.
In an interview, Regan acknowledged that some auto executives and leaders of the UAW had expressed anxiety over the proposals, adding that they could be amended to assuage those fears.
“We’re very mindful that this is a proposal, and we want to give as much flexibility possible,” he said.
The agency will accept public comments on the proposed rules before they are finalized next year. The rules would take effect starting with model year 2027.
Environmentalists praised Biden for delivering on a promise he made during his first days in office, when he called climate change a “moral imperative, an economic imperative” that would be central to all his decision-making.
A 2021 report by the International Energy Agency found that nations would have to stop sales of new gasoline-powered cars by 2035 to keep average global temperatures from increasing 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels. Beyond that point, scientists say, the effects of catastrophic heat waves, flooding, drought, crop failures and species extinction would become significantly harder for humanity to handle. The planet has already warmed by an average of about 1.1 degrees Celsius.
Biden has pledged to cut the country’s emissions in half by 2030 and to stop adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere by 2050. He took a major step toward meeting that target last summer, when he signed the Inflation Reduction Act. It includes $370 billion in spending over the next decade to fight climate change, including tax incentives up to $7,500 for the purchase of U.S.-made electric vehicles.
That law is projected to help the United States cut its emissions by 40% by 2030 — not quite enough to meet Biden’s pledge. Experts said the new EPA regulations, if enacted as proposed, were needed to reach Biden’s goal.
“The EPA standards are a huge step forward in addressing the largest source of climate pollution: transportation,” said Luke Tonachel, senior director of the clean vehicles and buildings program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group.
A sharp rise in electric vehicles in the United States could mean wider availability and sales of electric vehicles outside its borders, Tonachel said.
“This can be a world-leading standard that puts the world on a much-needed pathway for curbing global pollution from transportation,” he said.
Laurence Tubiana, who helped broker the 2015 Paris climate accord and who is now CEO of the European Climate Foundation, welcomed the EPA’s action.
“This is confirmation to the world of the seriousness of the engagement of Joe Biden on climate change and keeps the U.S. as a front-runner on climate,” Tubiana said. “It’s resonating very well in Europe and the world.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile industry; Manufacturing; Automobile sales; Electric vehicles

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Manufacturing Automobile sales

Location: New York; United States--US; Detroit Michigan

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Stellantis NV; NAICS: 336110, 551112; Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Environmental Protection Agency--EPA; NAICS: 924110

Identifier / keyword: Inflation Reduction Act Of 2022; Air Pollution; Carbon Dioxide; Europe; Labor And Jobs; Virginia; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; New York Times; United States; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; Relocation Of Business; Unemployment; Dodge Division Of Fiat Chrysler; Regan, Michael S (1976 ); Automobiles; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Ford Motor Co; Suits And Litigation (Civil); United Automobile Workers; West Virginia; Hiring And Promotion; General Motors; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Nv; Environmental Protection Agency; Decisions And Verdicts; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Pollution; United States Politics And Government; Ford, Henry; Global Warming; Natural Resources Defense Council; Federal State Relations (Us); Organized Labor; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; International Energy Agency; Mercedes Benz; Paris (France); Fain, Shawn; Executive Orders And Memorandums; Fuel Efficiency; Alliance For Automotive Innovation; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Factories And Manufacturing; Clean Air Act; States (Us); Income Inequality; Stellantis Nv; Batteries; Ram Division Of Chrysler Corp; Fuel Emissions (Transportation); Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Economy; Trucks And Trucking; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Southern States (Us)

Title: EPA Lays Out Rules to Turbocharge Sales of Electric Cars and Trucks

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 12, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-12T22:32:35Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2799832373

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/epa-lays-out-rules-turbocharge-sales-electric/docview/2799832373/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Ohio Races to Retool for Electric Car Revolution: [National Desk]

Author: Ewing, Jack; Mcgarvey, Maddie

Publication info: Ewing, Jack; Mcgarvey, Maddie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ohio-races-retool-electric-car-revolution/docview/2795912791/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Erick Belmer has seen how tough the car business can be. He was working at a General Motors plant in Lordstown, Ohio, when it shut down in 2019, devastating the community.
Mr. Belmer, an industrial mechanic, got another job at a G.M. transmission factory in Toledo, but his commute is now 140 miles each way. His schedule gives him just a few hours with his family and a few hours of sleep.
Yet far from being bitter, Mr. Belmer says he is excited. G.M. is converting his factory to produce electric motors, part of an industrial transformation that will redefine manufacturing regions and jobs around the world.
G.M., Ford Motor and other carmakers announced investments of more than $ 50 billion in new factories in the United States last year, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. All but a small fraction of that money was to build and retool plants for electric vehicles and batteries.
Mr. Belmer is one of thousands of people who will also have to pick up new skills. "It's going to be a little bit of a learning curve," he said at the Toledo factory. "But our guys are well equipped to handle this."
Mr. Belmer and Ohio are bellwethers of how the transition to electric vehicles will play out. G.M., Jeep, Honda Motor and parts makers employ many thousands of people across this state.
Ohio produces more internal combustion engines than any other state, making an adjustment to electric cars particularly urgent. Nearly 90,000 people work in Ohio for carmakers or parts suppliers, and several times that many are employed by businesses that serve those autoworkers and their families.
The changes are putting Ohio at the forefront of a new technology that is critical to fighting climate change. But some jobs will become obsolete, and some companies will go bankrupt. It's an open question whether the winners will outnumber the losers.
"This is the largest transition in our industry since its inception," said Tony Totty, the president of a United Auto Workers local that represents G.M. workers in Toledo.
Mr. Totty is optimistic about the members of his local. But he is worried about other colleagues whose jobs are tied to gasoline engines, he said.
There is "an expiration date on those facilities and those communities," Mr. Totty said.
Warren, in eastern Ohio, knows what happens when a carmaker leaves town. The city has lost one-third of its population, about 20,000 people, since the 1970s, a process that accelerated after G.M. closed the factory in nearby Lordstown, which produced Chevrolet Cruze sedans, in 2019. Sales of that car had been fading as more Americans chose sport utility vehicles.
Even before that shutdown, auto production jobs had been declining. U.S. automakers and their parts suppliers employed about one million people at the end of 2018, down from more than 1.3 million in 2000. In the years before G.M. closed the Lordstown plant, it had reduced shifts and pared its work force.
"Our biggest export for the last 20 years has been talented young people," said Rick Stockburger, the president of Brite Energy Innovators, an organization in Warren that offers work space, advice and funding to start-ups.
Today, things are looking somewhat better. Ultium Cells, a joint venture of G.M. and LG Energy Solution, is ramping up production of batteries near the defunct factory.
Foxconn, a Taiwanese manufacturer, has taken over the old G.M. plant and plans to produce electric vehicles and tractors there. The complex will also house an "electric vehicle academy" established by Foxconn and Youngstown State University to train workers.
That surge in investment is helping to revive Warren's tidy but sleepy downtown. Doug Franklin, the mayor, who worked for G.M. in Lordstown, said he was pleased recently to step into a local restaurant where "nobody knew me, because we had so many new people."
Mr. Franklin represents the optimistic view -- that an industrial renaissance is underway. The pandemic and the supply chain chaos that it caused have made companies leery of components produced far away. That experience, plus billions in federal subsidies approved by Democrats last year, motivated manufacturers to build vehicles, batteries and other components in the United States.
"We're seeing a new level of hope that I haven't seen in decades," Mr. Franklin said.
But community leaders in Warren are also aware that the transition comes with risks.
Hopes that the old plant will become a buzzing electric vehicle factory have not panned out, so far. G.M. sold the factory to Lordstown Motors, a fledgling electric pickup truck company that ran into trouble and resold the plant to Foxconn.
Executives at Foxconn, which has long assembled electronic devices but has little experience making cars, declined interview requests. It's not clear when the company will mass-produce electric vehicles in Lordstown, if ever.
The Rev. Todd Johnson, the pastor of the Second Baptist Church in Warren and a member of the City Council, worries that his mostly African American parishioners won't benefit from the new jobs.
Mr. Johnson, whose parents worked for G.M., encourages young people to study subjects like robotics and coding, and has led after-church trips to a science and technology center in nearby Youngstown.
"There are going to be opportunities coming," he said, "and I desperately don't want to see the next generation of our children miss out."
One pressing question is what will happen to people whose skills are no longer needed.
G.M. is dealing with that issue at the Toledo factory, Toledo Propulsion Systems, which makes transmissions that electric cars won't need. The automaker has committed to retraining the Toledo workers to make electric motors, and to investing $ 760 million to convert assembly lines at the plant.
If anything, G.M. will need more workers, said Eric Gonzales, the executive director of the factory, as it replaces gasoline models with electric cars. "We're taking the employees with us."
The G.M. factory in Toledo will show whether established automakers can compete with Tesla, the fast-growing automaker that can focus all of its resources on electric vehicles because that's all it makes. Established carmakers need to keep earning money from internal combustion vehicles while ramping up a new technology that is not yet profitable.
G.M. has an advantage, Mr. Gonzales said, because it has factories equipped with sprinkler systems, high-voltage power and other essentials. "We already have the four walls here with the infrastructure," he said, speaking above the din of clanking machinery. "Somebody new, they have very expensive capital costs."
Other auto executives prefer to start fresh. Volkswagen's new Scout Motors unit looked at sites in Ohio and other states to produce electric pickup trucks and S.U.V.s, but chose to build a $ 2 billion factory in South Carolina.
It's cheaper and easier to build from scratch, said Scott Keogh, the chief executive of Scout. "You're not juggling this classic dynamic of a legacy internal combustion engine plant where you need to inject a new electric vehicle," he said.
Ohio is in intense competition with other states to attract investment. But Midwestern states, including Michigan, Indiana and Illinois, have been less successful than states in the South where Republican political leaders have courted investment aggressively -- even as they denounce the Democratic policies that helped create the boom.
Since 2020, automakers have announced investments of $ 51 billion in electric vehicle and battery production in the South, compared with $ 31 billion in states in the Great Lakes region, according to the Center for Automotive Research.
Southern states tend to have lower labor costs, in part because most auto plants there are not unionized. This could pose a problem for the United Auto Workers and President Biden, who want the switch to electric vehicles to create more high-paying union jobs. It could well be that most of the new electric car and battery jobs will end up in the South, where unions face political opposition, and not in the Midwest, where unions have political clout -- and where most of the jobs lost in combustion engine vehicles once were.
Ohio has some things going for it. In March, Honda Motor said it would convert one of two assembly lines at its decades-old plant in Marysville, near Columbus, to build electric vehicles. Honda, a Japanese company, is also building a battery factory about an hour away, in Jeffersonville, with LG Energy Solution.
In Ohio, Honda employs more than 14,000 people making cars and motors, and the company's plans will show whether electric vehicles, which require fewer parts than gasoline cars, will create or destroy jobs.
For the next several years, the transition will probably create jobs as carmakers make both gasoline and electric vehicles. Bob Nelson, the executive vice president of American Honda Motor, noted that, at the moment, there was a shortage of skilled labor. "We're going to need everybody," he said in Marysville, where Honda makes Accord sedans.
What happens later is less certain. "When you don't have the complexity that we're used to, with engines and transmissions and mufflers and radiators and exhaust systems and all those components that aren't going to be there anymore," said Bruce Baumhower, the president of a United Auto Workers local that represents employees of auto suppliers in Ohio, "it makes me wonder what's left."
Dana Incorporated, based in Maumee, near Toledo, is also grappling with that question. Dana's employees -- more than 40,000 of them -- make axles, drive shafts and other parts. Electric vehicles need axles but typically do not need long drive shafts because the motors can be placed close to the wheels.
James Kamsickas, Dana's chief executive, has spent time in China and has been struck by the proliferation of electric vehicles there. Recognizing the threat to some of Dana's products, Mr. Kamsickas acquired several firms with expertise in electric motors and other technology.
Dana now offers axles with electric motors built in, saving weight and energy, and it has deployed its expertise in gaskets to make equipment for cooling electric-car batteries that G.M. plans to use. Most of Dana's orders are for products related to electric vehicles.
Ohio's economic future hinges on whether other companies make similar leaps. "You don't have a choice," Mr. Kamsickas said. "Sooner or later, you'd be a melting iceberg."
Photograph A Honda electric-car battery factory in Marysville, Ohio. The rise of electric cars could be a boon or a bust for autoworkers in the state. (A1); Erick Belmer said he was excited to work in a General Motors factory in Toledo, Ohio, that was converting to produce electric motors.; Transmissions at a G.M. facility in Toledo. Right, the electric drive unit G.M. is renovating.; Tony Totty, president of a U.A.W. local, is worried about colleagues tied to gasoline engines. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MADDIE McGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) This article appeared in print on page A1, A19.

Subject: Capital costs; Assembly lines; Automotive parts industry; Electric vehicles; Employment; Automobile industry; Manufacturing; Factories; Industrywide conditions; Automobile production; Impact analysis

Business indexing term: Subject: Capital costs Assembly lines Automotive parts industry Employment Automobile industry Manufacturing Factories Industrywide conditions Automobile production

Location: United States--US; Ohio

Company / organization: Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/05/business/energy-environment/ohio-electric-vehicles-jobs.html

Title: Ohio Races to Retool for Electric Car Revolut ion:   [National Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 6, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2795912791

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ohio-races-retool-electric-car-revolution/docview/2795912791/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Ohio, Electric Cars Are Starting to Reshape Jobs and Companies

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ohio-electric-cars-are-starting-reshape-jobs/docview/2795825027/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TOLEDO, Ohio — Erick Belmer has seen how tough the car business can be. He was working at a General Motors plant in Lordstown, Ohio, when it shut down in 2019, devastating the community.
Belmer, an industrial mechanic, got another job at a GM transmission factory in Toledo, Ohio, but his commute is now 140 miles each way. His schedule gives him just a few hours with his family and a few hours of sleep.
Yet far from being bitter, Belmer said he is excited. GM is converting his factory to produce electric motors, part of an industrial transformation that will redefine manufacturing regions and jobs around the world.
GM, Ford Motor and other carmakers announced investments of more than $50 billion in new factories in the United States last year, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan. All but a small fraction of that money was to build and retool plants for electric vehicles and batteries.
Belmer is one of thousands of people who will also have to pick up new skills. “It’s going to be a little bit of a learning curve,” Belmer said at the Toledo factory. “But our guys are well equipped to handle this.”
Belmer and Ohio are bellwethers of how the transition to electric vehicles will play out. GM, Jeep, Honda Motor and parts makers employ many thousands of people across this state.
Ohio produces more internal combustion engines than any other state, making an adjustment to electric cars particularly urgent. Nearly 90,000 people work in Ohio for carmakers or parts suppliers, and several times that many are employed by businesses that serve those autoworkers and their families.
The changes are putting Ohio at the forefront of a new technology that is critical to fighting climate change. But some jobs will become obsolete, and some companies will go bankrupt. It’s an open question whether the winners will outnumber the losers.
“This is the largest transition in our industry since its inception,” said Tony Totty, the president of a United Auto Workers local that represents GM workers in Toledo.
Totty is optimistic about the members of his local. But he is worried about other colleagues whose jobs are tied to gasoline engines, he said.
There is “an expiration date on those facilities and those communities,” Totty said.
Warren, in eastern Ohio, knows what happens when a carmaker leaves town. The city lost one-third of its population, about 20,000 people, since the 1970s, a process that accelerated after GM closed the factory in nearby Lordstown, in 2019, that produced Chevrolet Cruze sedans. Sales of that car had been fading as more Americans chose SUVs.
Even before that shutdown, auto production jobs had been declining. U.S. automakers and their parts suppliers employed about 1 million people at the end of 2018, down from more than 1.3 million in 2000. In the years before GM closed the Lordstown plant, it had reduced shifts and pared its workforce.
“Our biggest export for the last 20 years has been talented young people,” said Rick Stockburger, the president of Brite Energy Innovators, an organization in Warren that offers work space, advice and funding to startups.
Today, things are looking somewhat better. Ultium Cells, a joint venture of GM and LG Energy Solution, is ramping up production of batteries near the defunct factory.
Foxconn, a Taiwanese manufacturer, has taken over the old GM plant and plans to produce electric vehicles and tractors there. The complex will also house an “electric vehicle academy” established by Foxconn and Youngstown State University to train workers.
That surge in investment is helping to revive Warren’s tidy but sleepy downtown. Doug Franklin, the mayor, who worked for GM in Lordstown, said he was pleased recently to step into a local restaurant where “nobody knew me, because we had so many new people.”
Franklin represents the optimistic view: that an industrial renaissance is underway. The pandemic and the supply chain chaos it caused have made companies leery of components produced far away. That experience, plus billions in federal subsidies approved by Democrats last year, motivated manufacturers to build vehicles, batteries and other components in the United States.
“We're seeing a new level of hope that I haven’t seen in decades,” Franklin said.
But community leaders in Warren are also aware the transition comes with risks.
Hopes that the old plant will become a buzzing electric vehicle factory have not panned out so far. GM sold the factory to Lordstown Motors, a fledgling electric pickup truck company that ran into trouble and resold the plant to Foxconn.
Executives at Foxconn, which has long assembled electronic devices but has little experience making cars, declined interview requests. It’s not clear when the company will mass-produce electric vehicles in Lordstown, if ever.
The Rev. Todd Johnson, the pastor of the Second Baptist Church in Warren and a member of the City Council, worries that his mostly African American parishioners won’t benefit from the new jobs.
Johnson, whose parents worked for GM, encourages young people to study subjects like robotics and coding and has led after-church trips to a science and technology center in nearby Youngstown. “ There are going to be opportunities coming,” he said, “and I desperately don’t want to see the next generation of our children miss out.”
One pressing question is what will happen to people whose skills are no longer needed.
GM is dealing with that issue at the Toledo factory, Toledo Propulsion Systems, which makes transmissions that electric cars won’t need.
The automaker has committed to retraining the Toledo workers to make electric motors, and to investing $760 million to convert assembly lines at the plant.
If anything, GM will need more workers, said Eric Gonzales, the executive director of the factory, as it replaces gasoline models with electric cars. “We’re taking the employees with us.”
The GM factory in Toledo will show whether established automakers can compete with Tesla, the fast-growing automaker that can focus all of its resources on electric vehicles because that’s all it makes. Established carmakers need to keep earning money from internal combustion vehicles while ramping up a new technology that is not yet profitable.
GM has an advantage, Gonzales said, because it has factories equipped with sprinkler systems, high-voltage power and other essentials. “We already have the four walls here with the infrastructure,” he said, speaking above the din of clanking machinery. “Somebody new, they have very expensive capital costs.”
Other auto executives prefer to start fresh. Volkswagen’s new Scout Motors unit looked at sites in Ohio and other states to produce electric pickup trucks and SUVs but chose to build a $2 billion factory in South Carolina.
It’s cheaper and easier to build from scratch, said Scott Keogh, the CEO of Scout. “You’re not juggling this classic dynamic of a legacy internal combustion engine plant where you need to inject a new electric vehicle,” he said.
Ohio is in intense competition with other states to attract investment. But Midwestern states, including Michigan, Indiana and Illinois, have been less successful than states in the South where Republican political leaders have courted investment aggressively — even as they denounce the Democratic policies that helped create the boom.
Since 2020, automakers have announced investments of $51 billion in electric vehicle and battery production in the South, compared with $31 billion in states in the Great Lakes region, according to the Center for Automotive Research.
Southern states tend to have lower labor costs, in part because most auto plants there are not unionized. This could pose a problem for the United Auto Workers and President Joe Biden, who want the switch to electric vehicles to create more high-paying union jobs. It could well be that most of the new electric car and battery jobs will end up in the South, where unions face political opposition, and not in the Midwest, where unions have political clout — and where most of the jobs lost in combustion engine vehicles once were.
Ohio has some things going for it. In March, Honda Motor said it would convert one of two assembly lines at its decades-old plant in Marysville, near Columbus, to build electric vehicles. Honda, a Japanese company, is also building a battery factory about an hour away, in Jeffersonville, with LG Energy Solution.
In Ohio, Honda employs more than 14,000 people making cars and motors, and the company’s plans will show whether electric vehicles, which require fewer parts than gasoline cars, will create or destroy jobs.
For the next several years, the transition will probably create jobs as carmakers make both gasoline and electric vehicles. Bob Nelson, the executive vice president of American Honda Motor, noted that at the moment, there was a shortage of skilled labor. “We’re going to need everybody,” he said in Marysville, where Honda makes Accord sedans.
What happens later is less certain. “When you don’t have the complexity that we’re used to, with engines and transmissions and mufflers and radiators and exhaust systems and all those components that aren’t going to be there anymore,” said Bruce Baumhower, the president of a United Auto Workers local that represents employees of auto suppliers in Ohio, “it makes me wonder what’s left.”
Dana Inc., based in Maumee, near Toledo, is also grappling with that question. Dana’s employees — more than 40,000 of them — make axles, drive shafts and other parts. Electric vehicles need axles but typically do not need long drive shafts because the motors can be placed close to the wheels.
James Kamsickas, Dana’s CEO, has spent time in China and has been struck by the proliferation of electric vehicles there. Recognizing the threat to some of Dana’s products, Kamsickas acquired several firms with expertise in electric motors and other technology.
Dana now offers axles with electric motors built in, saving weight and energy, and it has deployed its expertise in gaskets to make equipment for cooling electric car batteries that GM plans to use. Most of Dana’s orders are for products related to electric vehicles.
Ohio’s economic future hinges on whether other companies make similar leaps. “You don’t have a choice,” Kamsickas said. “Sooner or later, you’d be a melting iceberg.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Capital costs; Assembly lines; Automotive parts industry; Electric vehicles; Employment; Presidents; Automobile industry; Manufacturing; Sprinkler systems; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Capital costs Assembly lines Automotive parts industry Employment Automobile industry Manufacturing Factories

Location: United States--US; Ohio; Michigan

Company / organization: Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Center for Automotive Research; NAICS: 541380, 541715

Identifier / keyword: Shortages; Taiwan; Midwestern States (Us); Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Warren (Ohio); Foxconn Technology; Supply Chain; Business; Coronavirus Risks And Safety Concerns; Columbus (Ohio); Honda Motor Co Ltd; House Of Representatives; Lordstown (Ohio); Toledo (Ohio); Ann Arbor (Mich); United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Careers And Professions; Youth; Politics And Government; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Illinois; United Automobile Workers; Keogh, Scott; Columbus (Ind); General Motors; Youngstown (Ohio); Traffic Accidents And Safety; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Ohio; Lg Energy Solution; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Youngstown State University; Wages And Salaries; Michigan; Executives And Management (Theory); Organized Labor; American Honda Motor Co; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; International Relations; Marysville (Mich); Engines; Shutdowns (Institutional); South Carolina; Democratic Party; Lordstown Motors Corp; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Automobile Service And Charging Stations; Factories And Manufacturing; Franklin (Ind); Volkswagen Ag; Stocks And Bonds; States (Us); Japan; Generation Z; Jeffersonville (Ind); Maumee (Ohio); Great Lakes; Center For Automotive Research; Labor And Jobs; Indiana; Second Baptist Church; Batteries; Appointments And Executive Changes; Marysville (Ind); Columbus (Miss); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Southern States (Us); China

Title: In Ohio, Electric Cars Are Starting to Reshape Jobs and Companies

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 6, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-06T01:08:59Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2795825027

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ohio-electric-cars-are-starting-resh ape-jobs/docview/2795825027/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 6, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Ohio, Electric Cars Are Starting to Reshape Jobs and Companies

Author: Ewing, Jack

Publication info: Ewing, Jack. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ohio-electric-cars-are-starting-reshape-jobs/docview/2795751506/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
TOLEDO, Ohio — Erick Belmer has seen how tough the car business can be. He was working at a General Motors plant in Lordstown, Ohio, when it shut down in 2019, devastating the community.
Belmer, an industrial mechanic, got another job at a GM transmission factory in Toledo, Ohio, but his commute is now 140 miles each way. His schedule gives him just a few hours with his family and a few hours of sleep.
Yet far from being bitter, Belmer said he is excited. GM is converting his factory to produce electric motors, part of an industrial transformation that will redefine manufacturing regions and jobs around the world.
GM, Ford Motor and other carmakers announced investments of more than $50 billion in new factories in the United States last year, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan. All but a small fraction of that money was to build and retool plants for electric vehicles and batteries.
Belmer is one of thousands of people who will also have to pick up new skills. “It’s going to be a little bit of a learning curve,” Belmer said at the Toledo factory. “But our guys are well equipped to handle this.”
Belmer and Ohio are bellwethers of how the transition to electric vehicles will play out. GM, Jeep, Honda Motor and parts makers employ many thousands of people across this state.
Ohio produces more internal combustion engines than any other state, making an adjustment to electric cars particularly urgent. Nearly 90,000 people work in Ohio for carmakers or parts suppliers, and several times that many are employed by businesses that serve those autoworkers and their families.
The changes are putting Ohio at the forefront of a new technology that is critical to fighting climate change. But some jobs will become obsolete, and some companies will go bankrupt. It’s an open question whether the winners will outnumber the losers.
“This is the largest transition in our industry since its inception,” said Tony Totty, the president of a United Auto Workers local that represents GM workers in Toledo.
Totty is optimistic about the members of his local. But he is worried about other colleagues whose jobs are tied to gasoline engines, he said.
There is “an expiration date on those facilities and those communities,” Totty said.
Warren, in eastern Ohio, knows what happens when a carmaker leaves town. The city lost one-third of its population, about 20,000 people, after GM closed the factory in nearby Lordstown, in 2019, that produced Chevrolet Cruze sedans. Sales of that car had been fading as more Americans chose SUVs.
Even before that shutdown, auto production jobs had been declining. U.S. automakers and their parts suppliers employed about 1 million people at the end of 2018, down from more than 1.3 million in 2000. In the years before GM closed the Lordstown plant, it had reduced shifts and pared its workforce.
“Our biggest export for the last 20 years has been talented young people,” said Rick Stockburger, the president of Brite Energy Innovators, an organization in Warren that offers work space, advice and funding to startups.
Today, things are looking somewhat better. Ultium Cells, a joint venture of GM and LG Energy Solution, is ramping up production of batteries near the defunct factory.
Foxconn, a Taiwanese manufacturer, has taken over the old GM plant and plans to produce electric vehicles and tractors there. The complex will also house an “electric vehicle academy” established by Foxconn and Youngstown State University to train workers.
That surge in investment is helping to revive Warren’s tidy but sleepy downtown. Doug Franklin, the mayor, who worked for GM in Lordstown, said he was pleased recently to step into a local restaurant where “nobody knew me, because we had so many new people.”
Franklin represents the optimistic view: that an industrial renaissance is underway. The pandemic and the supply chain chaos it caused have made companies leery of components produced far away. That experience, plus billions in federal subsidies approved by Democrats last year, motivated manufacturers to build vehicles, batteries and other components in the United States.
“We're seeing a new level of hope that I haven’t seen in decades,” Franklin said.
But community leaders in Warren are also aware the transition comes with risks.
Hopes that the old plant will become a buzzing electric vehicle factory have not panned out so far. GM sold the factory to Lordstown Motors, a fledgling electric pickup truck company that ran into trouble and resold the plant to Foxconn.
Executives at Foxconn, which has long assembled electronic devices but has little experience making cars, declined interview requests. It’s not clear when the company will mass-produce electric vehicles in Lordstown, if ever.
The Rev. Todd Johnson, the pastor of the Second Baptist Church in Warren and a member of the City Council, worries that his mostly African American parishioners won’t benefit from the new jobs.
Johnson, whose parents worked for GM, encourages young people to study subjects like robotics and coding and has led after-church trips to a science and technology center in nearby Youngstown. “ There are going to be opportunities coming,” he said, “and I desperately don’t want to see the next generation of our children miss out.”
One pressing question is what will happen to people whose skills are no longer needed.
GM is dealing with that issue at the Toledo factory, Toledo Propulsion Systems, which makes transmissions that electric cars won’t need.
The automaker has committed to retraining the Toledo workers to make electric motors, and to investing $760 million to convert assembly lines at the plant.
If anything, GM will need more workers, said Eric Gonzales, the executive director of the factory, as it replaces gasoline models with electric cars. “We’re taking the employees with us.”
The GM factory in Toledo will show whether established automakers can compete with Tesla, the fast-growing automaker that can focus all of its resources on electric vehicles because that’s all it makes. Established carmakers need to keep earning money from internal combustion vehicles while ramping up a new technology that is not yet profitable.
GM has an advantage, Gonzales said, because it has factories equipped with sprinkler systems, high-voltage power and other essentials. “We already have the four walls here with the infrastructure,” he said, speaking above the din of clanking machinery. “Somebody new, they have very expensive capital costs.”
Other auto executives prefer to start fresh. Volkswagen’s new Scout Motors unit looked at sites in Ohio and other states to produce electric pickup trucks and SUVs but chose to build a $2 billion factory in South Carolina.
It’s cheaper and easier to build from scratch, said Scott Keogh, the CEO of Scout. “You’re not juggling this classic dynamic of a legacy internal combustion engine plant where you need to inject a new electric vehicle,” he said.
Ohio is in intense competition with other states to attract investment. But Midwestern states, including Michigan, Indiana and Illinois, have been less successful than states in the South where Republican political leaders have courted investment aggressively — even as they denounce the Democratic policies that helped create the boom.
Since 2020, automakers have announced investments of $51 billion in electric vehicle and battery production in the South, compared with $31 billion in states in the Great Lakes region, according to the Center for Automotive Research.
Southern states tend to have lower labor costs, in part because most auto plants there are not unionized. This could pose a problem for the United Auto Workers and President Joe Biden, who want the switch to electric vehicles to create more high-paying union jobs. It could well be that most of the new electric car and battery jobs will end up in the South, where unions face political opposition, and not in the Midwest, where unions have political clout — and where most of the jobs lost in combustion engine vehicles once were.
Ohio has some things going for it. In March, Honda Motor said it would convert one of two assembly lines at its decades-old plant in Marysville, near Columbus, to build electric vehicles. Honda, a Japanese company, is also building a battery factory about an hour away, in Jeffersonville, with LG Energy Solution.
In Ohio, Honda employs more than 14,000 people making cars and motors, and the company’s plans will show whether electric vehicles, which require fewer parts than gasoline cars, will create or destroy jobs.
For the next several years, the transition will probably create jobs as carmakers make both gasoline and electric vehicles. Bob Nelson, the executive vice president of American Honda Motor, noted that at the moment, there was a shortage of skilled labor. “We’re going to need everybody,” he said in Marysville, where Honda makes Accord sedans.
What happens later is less certain. “When you don’t have the complexity that we’re used to, with engines and transmissions and mufflers and radiators and exhaust systems and all those components that aren’t going to be there anymore,” said Bruce Baumhower, the president of a United Auto Workers local that represents employees of auto suppliers in Ohio, “it makes me wonder what’s left.”
Dana Inc., based in Maumee, near Toledo, is also grappling with that question. Dana’s employees — more than 40,000 of them — make axles, drive shafts and other parts. Electric vehicles need axles but typically do not need long drive shafts because the motors can be placed close to the wheels.
James Kamsickas, Dana’s CEO, has spent time in China and has been struck by the proliferation of electric vehicles there. Recognizing the threat to some of Dana’s products, Kamsickas acquired several firms with expertise in electric motors and other technology.
Dana now offers axles with electric motors built in, saving weight and energy, and it has deployed its expertise in gaskets to make equipment for cooling electric car batteries that GM plans to use. Most of Dana’s orders are for products related to electric vehicles.
Ohio’s economic future hinges on whether other companies make similar leaps. “You don’t have a choice,” Kamsickas said. “Sooner or later, you’d be a melting iceberg.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Capital costs; Assembly lines; Automotive parts industry; Electric vehicles; Employment; Presidents; Automobile industry; Manufacturing; Sprinkler systems; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Capital costs Assembly lines Automotive parts industry Employment Automobile industry Manufacturing Factories

Location: United States--US; Ohio; Michigan

Company / organization: Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: Center for Automotive Research; NAICS: 541380, 541715

Identifier / keyword: Shortages; Taiwan; Midwestern States (Us); Sports Utility Vehicles And Light Trucks; Warren (Ohio); Foxconn Technology; Supply Chain; Business; Coronavirus Risks And Safety Concerns; Columbus (Ohio); Honda Motor Co Ltd; House Of Representatives; Lordstown (Ohio); Toledo (Ohio); Ann Arbor (Mich); United States; Tesla Motors Inc; Careers And Professions; Youth; Politics And Government; Ford Motor Co; Automobiles; Illinois; United Automobile Workers; Keogh, Scott; Columbus (Ind); General Motors; Youngstown (Ohio); Traffic Accidents And Safety; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; Ohio; Lg Energy Solution; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Youngstown State University; Wages And Salaries; Michigan; Executives And Management (Theory); Organized Labor; American Honda Motor Co; Jeep Division Of Fiat Chrysler; International Relations; Marysville (Mich); Engines; Shutdowns (Institutional); South Carolina; Democratic Party; Lordstown Motors Corp; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Automobile Service And Charging Stations; Factories And Manufacturing; Franklin (Ind); Volkswagen Ag; Stocks And Bonds; States (Us); Japan; Generation Z; Jeffersonville (Ind); Maumee (Ohio); Great Lakes; Center For Automotive Research; Labor And Jobs; Indiana; Second Baptist Church; Batteries; Appointments And Executive Changes; Marysville (Ind); Columbus (Miss); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Southern States (Us); China

Title: In Ohio, Electric Cars Are Starting to Reshape Jobs and Companies

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-04-05T20:24:18Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2795751506

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ohio-electric-cars-are-starting-resh ape-jobs/docview/2795751506/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Kushner Firm Benefits From Bonds Forged In Wealthy Kingdoms: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Swan, Jonathan; Kelly, Kate; Haberman, Maggie; Mazzetti, Mark

Publication info: Swan, Jonathan; Kelly, Kate; Haberman, Maggie; Mazzetti, Mark. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kushner-firm-benefits-bonds-forged-wealthy/docview/2793301288/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The infusion of money from interests in the two Persian Gulf monarchies reflects the close ties to Middle Eastern countries established by Jared Kushner, former President Donald Trump's son-in-law.
Wealth funds in the United Arab Emirates and Qatar have invested hundreds of millions of dollars with Jared Kushner's private equity firm, according to people with knowledge of the transactions, joining Saudi Arabia in backing the venture launched by former President Donald J. Trump's son-in-law as he left the White House.
The infusion of money from interests in the two rival Persian Gulf monarchies reflects the continued efforts by Mr. Trump and his aides and allies to profit from the close ties they built to the Arab world during his presidency and the desire of leaders in the region to remain on good terms with Mr. Kushner as his father-in-law seeks the presidency again.
The Emiratis invested more than $ 200 million with Mr. Kushner's firm, Affinity Partners, two people told about the transactions said. The U.A.E.'s embassy in Washington declined to comment. A Qatari entity invested a similar sum, according to two people with knowledge of that deal. A spokesman for the Qatari embassy in Washington declined to comment.
The investment from the U.A.E. came through a sovereign wealth fund, but the identity of the Qatari investor is unclear. An Affinity Partners official did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Top Emirati officials have a close relationship with Mr. Kushner, forged during the Trump administration. And the Kushner family has previously benefited from Qatari funds. A Qatar-linked company helped bail out the Kushners' debt-ridden tower in midtown Manhattan, 666 Fifth Avenue, during the Trump presidency.
But despite these relationships, Emirati and Qatari officials were at first reluctant to invest in Mr. Kushner's private equity fund, at least in part because of the political risks involved, according to people familiar with both governments' internal deliberations. The Times previously reported that Qatari officials feared they would face unfavorable treatment if they turned down Mr. Kushner's invitation to invest and Mr. Trump returned to power.
It is not unusual for insiders from both parties to benefit financially from deals abroad after leaving government service, particularly in the Middle East. There is a long history of firms populated by former officials from Democratic administrations signing lucrative contracts with Gulf nations, and there are few laws or ethics guidelines prohibiting it.
But the scale of the investments Mr. Kushner's venture has received from the Gulf countries -- in the range of $ 2.5 billion -- and the timing, coming relatively soon after his leaving the White House, are striking and have drawn criticism from Democrats and ethics experts.
The newly disclosed investments are not especially large coming from energy-rich nations whose sovereign wealth funds manage hundreds of billions of dollars in assets. And they are far smaller than the commitment made earlier by the main Saudi sovereign wealth fund, a $ 650 billion entity known as the Public Investment Fund, which, as The New York Times has reported, invested $ 2 billion with Mr. Kushner in 2021. Affinity Partners has confirmed that the Public Investment Fund was backing it without giving details on the amount.
Both the U.A.E. and Qatar have a history of hedging their bets on U.S. politics. The investments appear to be the latest indication that they want to maintain warm relations with prominent officials from the Trump administration -- especially if Mr. Trump were to become president again -- even as they work with the Biden administration.
But the investments reflect not just an eye toward the future in the U.S., but also an acknowledgment of their relationship with Mr. Kushner, who left the White House with an expansive network of contacts, and with whom they worked closely.
Affinity Partners makes only limited public disclosures, but the branch of the firm that handles money from Mr. Kushner's overseas backers held $ 2.5 billion in capital on behalf of three different foreign investors, according to a financial filing dated last March. Updated disclosures, which are expected to be filed by Friday, are likely to show that Affinity Partners now manages roughly $ 3 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter.
As a top White House adviser to Mr. Trump while he was in office, Mr. Kushner was an active participant in American diplomacy in the Middle East and helped orchestrate a regional pact, the Abraham Accords, that normalized relations between Israel and several Arab countries, including the United Arab Emirates, in 2020.
During the final days of the Trump presidency, he played a role in discussions that helped lift an economic and diplomatic blockade of Qatar by its neighbors. The blockade, led by Saudi Arabia, had been imposed in 2017 at a time when Mr. Kushner was cultivating a relationship with Saudi Prince Mohammed bin Salman -- who was about to become next in line to the throne in the kingdom.
John R. Bolton, who served as Mr. Trump's national security adviser, said he never heard Mr. Kushner directly address the opportunities that his contacts in the Middle East could bring him after leaving government.
"But certainly the way in which he's approached it upon leaving the White House has been very systematic and very effective," Mr. Bolton said.
Mr. Kushner is not the only former Trump administration official to benefit from connections in the Middle East since Mr. Trump's term ended. Steven T. Mnuchin, the former Treasury secretary, also runs an investment firm with backing from sovereign wealth funds in the Gulf. On Thursday, both he and Mr. Kushner appeared at an investment conference in Miami Beach sponsored by a nonprofit led by the governor of Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund, Yasir al-Rumayyan.
Since leaving office, Mr. Trump, like his son-in-law, has chased Middle East deals. He announced one with a Saudi real estate company, which intends to build a Trump-branded hotel, villas and a golf course as part of a $ 4 billion real estate project in Oman that is backed by Oman's government. And he is promoting the Saudi-backed LIV Golf tour at his golf courses.
But in Mr. Kushner's case, investors in the region had raised questions about his lack of investment experience, and Democrats have criticized the speed with which he secured financial commitments from countries he had only recently been dealing with in an official capacity. Mr. Kushner locked in the $ 2 billion investment from the Saudis only months after he left the White House.
Last year, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, who at the time was chair of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, opened an investigation into whether Mr. Kushner traded on his government position to secure the Saudi investment.
"Your close relationship with Crown Prince bin Salman, your pro-Saudi positions during the Trump administration, and PIF's decision to fund the lion's share of your new business venture -- only six months after the end of your White House tenure," Ms. Maloney wrote in a letter to Mr. Kushner, "create the appearance of a quid pro quo for your foreign policy work."
A spokesman for Mr. Kushner replied at the time that "Mr. Kushner fully abided by all legal and ethical guidelines both during and after his government service." Republicans closed the investigation into Mr. Kushner when they took control of the House this year.
Mr. Kushner and Mr. Mnuchin spent some of the final days of the Trump presidency in the Middle East. Mr. Kushner was focused on expanding the Abraham Accords, and both men were pushing a new initiative called the "Abraham Fund" -- a U.S. government program they said would raise billions of dollars for Middle East projects but which never got off the ground and ended after Mr. Trump left office.
Shortly after leaving government, both Mr. Kushner and Mr. Mnuchin established their respective private equity firms, and they soon began courting some of the very same governments that had been their official counterparts just weeks before. Both recruited into their firms members of the Trump administration who had strong relationships with the Gulf countries they were now pursuing for investments.
Mr. Kushner brought on as a partner his former White House colleague Avi Berkowitz, a young aide who was later elevated to play a key role in Middle East negotiations. Among other former Trump officials with trade and diplomatic experience, Mr. Kushner also hired retired Army Maj. Gen. Miguel Correa -- a former defense attaché at the U.S. embassy in Abu Dhabi -- whose strong high-level relationships with the Emiratis helped cement the Abraham Accords.
By June 2021, the Saudi Public Investment Fund was considering backing Mr. Kushner's Affinity Partners with $ 2 billion in what Mr. al-Rumayyan described as a "strategic" investment, even as a fund investment advisory panel recommended against providing capital because of Mr. Kushner's lack of an investment track record and the public relations risks involved, according to internal documents disclosed last year by The Times.
Ultimately, the Public Investment Fund's full board, whose chairman is Prince Mohammed, Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, voted to reject the advisers' warnings and approved the Affinity Partners investment.
The Saudi arrangement alone stands to earn Mr. Kushner and his partners more than $ 20 million a year in fees, regardless of the performance of their investments.
The Saudi Public Investment Fund also put $ 1 billion into Mr. Mnuchin's fund, Liberty Strategic Capital, though on less generous terms than it had agreed to with Affinity Partners, the documents reviewed by The Times show.
Mr. Kushner's role as a Gulf power player was evident in February, at the wedding in Abu Dhabi of Mr. Berkowitz, his colleague at Affinity and in the White House.
Among those who attended the event under glass chandeliers in the sweeping royal ballroom of the St. Regis hotel on Saadiyat Island: Sheikh Tahnoon bin Zayed Al Nahyan, a brother of the United Arab Emirates' leader, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. Sheikh Tahnoon, who is also the national security adviser and oversees major Emirati investments, sat for a time next to Mr. Berkowitz at the head table, according to two attendees.
The Republican donor Miriam Adelson; Yousef al-Otaiba, the Emirati ambassador to the United States; and Richard Attias, a close adviser to Mr. al-Rumayyan of the Saudi Public Investment Fund, were also at the reception, where an attendee said guests dined on lamb chops and kosher chocolate mousse and danced to Israeli and American music.
Even the ceremony that preceded it made a statement about regional diplomacy: It was held at a synagogue in the Abrahamic Family House, a newly established interfaith center in Abu Dhabi not far from the hotel.
Mr. Kushner's Qatari connections were on public display in December, when he was spotted, alongside the Tesla founder Elon Musk, in a V.I.P. suite at the World Cup final match in Doha.
Mr. Kushner has told several people he does not want to be part of another presidential campaign. Yet he has maintained some public proximity to Mr. Trump's latest run for the presidency. In November, he took a conspicuous seat in the front row at Mr. Trump's campaign kickoff event at the former president's private club, Mar-a-Lago.
Photograph Jared Kushner, the former president's son-in-law, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, last year for the Future Investment Initiative conference.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A9.

Subject: Sovereign wealth funds; Private equity; Diplomatic & consular services; Wealth

Business indexing term: Subject: Sovereign wealth funds Private equity Wealth

Location: Middle East; New York; United States--US; Saudi Arabia; Qatar; United Arab Emirates; Oman; Persian Gulf states

People: Kushner, Jared

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/30/us/politics/jared-kushner-qatar- united-arab-emirates.html

Title: Kushner Firm Benefits From Bonds Forged In Wealthy Kingdoms:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.9

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 1, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2793301288

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kushner-firm-benefits-bonds-forged-wealthy/docview/2793301288/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

An Importer Revamps to Be 'Made in America': [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/importer-revamps-be-made-america/docview/2790714923/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: As a teenager in Southern California, Taylor Shupe confidently declared plans to one day lead a global company, an ambition that would surely bring him to China. By the time he was 15, he was studying Mandarin.
During a college semester in China, Mr. Shupe lined up a factory that could make products for his latest venture: selling protective cases for laptop computers.
Later, he oversaw production for a start-up called Stance, which relied on factories in China to make premium socks adorned with bold colors, surfer patterns and price tags reaching $ 25 a pair. His current business, a sock company called FutureStitch, also makes most of its wares in China.
But along the way, the world in which Mr. Shupe came of age yielded to something different. The era of globalization that shaped his early entrepreneurial forays was centered on China. The next phase, now unfolding, is dominated by hostilities between Washington and Beijing.
The animosity and suspicion was on full display Thursday as a congressional hearing probed the links between the Chinese government and the wildly popular social media platform, TikTok.
"To the American people watching today, hear this. TikTok is a weapon by the Chinese Communist Party," declared the chair of the House Energy and Commerce committee, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a Republican from Washington state."
Mr. Shupe, 39, had dedicated most of his adult life to sending jobs across the Pacific. He is now intent on bringing them back by transferring production to a new factory up the coast from San Diego.
The trend he has embraced, known as reshoring, is the result of a series of momentous alterations to the global economy over the past decade. Labor costs rose in China. President Donald J. Trump slapped tariffs on Chinese imports. And President Biden ratcheted up pressure designed to contain China's economic might. In Washington, two political parties that agreed on almost nothing achieved consensus that China represented a threat to the American way of life.
By the time the pandemic arrived, multiplying the costs of transporting goods across the Pacific, Mr. Shupe was already feeling a sense of urgency to make products closer to home.
"With goods coming from China, there's always going to be the Pacific Ocean that you have to transcend," he said.
He opened his new factory, in Oceanside, Calif., in the summer. On a recent afternoon, only 20 people were working there, wielding machinery to apply decorative designs to blank socks imported from China. But Mr. Shupe plans to more than double his work force by the end of the year.
"We're headed to a state of hyper-localization," he said as he zipped down the freeway toward the factory in his Tesla, at alarming speed. "The big disruptions that have occurred over the past three years have definitely exposed the sort of risk that we didn't think existed. Which brands want to set up new supply chains in China now?"
Mr. Shupe had to factor in the pitfalls of continuing to rely on textiles from China amid horrific accounts of human rights abuses against Uyghurs, the ethnic minority in the Chinese province of Xinjiang -- a major source of cotton. American sanctions prohibited any products linked to Xinjiang from entering the United States.
Made in China has also become a branding liability.
First and foremost an entrepreneur, Mr. Shupe and his fellow start-up founders divined that high-end socks were a retail frontier waiting to be exploited, a mass commodity that could be transformed into a platform for individual expression. But expression entailed values.
He understood that the Americans whose feet he was wooing were increasingly prone to viewing China as unsavory, and even malevolent.
He understood how social media and celebrity endorsements could drive consumer impulses. Traditional advertising couldn't rival the power of an Instagram post showing an N.B.A. legend donning Stance socks, or the Jay-Z song that celebrated the glories of the brand. ("This ain't gray sweatsuits and white tube socks. This is black leather pants and a pair of Stance.")
China was a damaging detail in the story of Mr. Shupe's product. Manufacturing socks in the United States was part of a new narrative, one which puts his customers on the right side of history, investing in American communities and responding to climate change by limiting carbon emissions from shipping containers streaming across the ocean.
"Consumers want to know where things are made more than ever," Mr. Shupe said. "And how things are made."
He had engineered an answer to that second question by partnering with local government agencies to hire formerly incarcerated women, most of them Black and Latina. They bore trauma from past experiences with substance abuse, domestic violence and prostitution. They confronted racial discrimination and unemployment rates reaching 35 percent. And there were the everyday struggles of single motherhood, rent to pay and groceries to buy in a society that tended to write them off.
People like Tasha Almanza, a mother of four who had served time for selling drugs, were at the center of the brand's narrative.
"We are women working together," Ms. Almanza said. "We're here to empower each other. This has given me the opportunity to rebuild my life."
Mr. Shupe is leaning hard into this story of redemption. He is manufacturing socks but trying to sell social purpose.
"When you think about the employees that we're hiring, who just so happen to be the most forsaken of any other employment group in the United States, and their stories of struggle, this is real power," he said. "And everything else coming from China, not only is it hollow of those sort of social elements, it's a net negative politically."
You could buy into that framing, or you could react to it skeptically, divining opportunism. Either way, its existence signified a shift in the conversation, the advancement of values.
Making products in the United States with American workers is gaining currency.
Industrial construction boom
Most of the attention to bringing manufacturing back has been centered on weightier concerns than socks.
Mr. Trump encouraged the production of Covid vaccines, in part by reserving supplies of key ingredients and equipment needed by domestic pharmaceutical companies. Mr. Biden expanded on those efforts, accelerating the availability of vaccines.
Mr. Biden maintained the Trump administration's tariffs on Chinese imports, while opening a new front in the trade war: computer chips. Under the CHIPS and Science Act, which was signed in August, the president unleashed $ 52 billion worth of direct subsidies to encourage companies to produce computer chips at factories in the United States.
Administration officials heralded the law as liberation from the constant vulnerability of relying on chip-makers in Taiwan, a self-governing island only 100 miles off the Chinese coast that is claimed by Beijing.
The government has also used tax credits to promote the domestic production of electric cars and batteries.
The result has been an industrial construction boom across the United States.
By the end of 2022, the chip industry had dedicated almost $ 200 billion to build and expand 40 factories in 16 states, generating 40,000 future jobs, according to the Semiconductor Industry Association. A similar sum of money has been promised for American plants making electric cars and batteries, according to the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group.
For now, growth in domestic manufacturing is dependent on federal largess.
"The national security concerns, and the geopolitics with Taiwan, those factors are motivators," said Eskander Yavar, a managing partner at BDO, an international business consulting firm. "If there's no subsidies in place, I think reshoring becomes a slower roll."
Yet this is the very point of the subsidies, Mr. Yavar added. They are designed to make it more attractive to invest in the United States, closing the often-considerable gap between the costs of producing goods domestically versus in a low-wage country.
"This is about creating something here."
Even as wages have risen in China in recent years, and even as shipping has proved volatile, the costs of making socks in California remains significantly higher than manufacturing in China, Mr. Shupe acknowledges. That basic reality is not likely to change any time soon and leaves the fate of his proposition uncertain. Still, he is betting that Americans will ultimately prove willing to pay more for products made at home.
Raised in Orange County, on a classic, sun-splashed chunk of the Pacific Coast, he surfed and skateboarded as a kid, gaining familiarity with the sartorial concerns of people who sought to look cool and feel comfortable at the same time.
From early childhood, he was constantly engaged in one entrepreneurial venture or another.
"Every Christmas, I'd ask for things that would allow me to generate money," he recalled. One year, it was a lemon crusher allowing him to make lemonade. Other years, he got a cotton-candy machine, a snow-cone maker, a rock polisher -- all harnessed to yield products he sold to the neighbors.
At 12, he was hawking boxes of chocolates and trinkets door to door. Then he worked as a delivery boy at a florist run by a man from Taiwan, using it as an opportunity to learn rudimentary Mandarin.
Mr. Shupe was raised a devout Mormon, though he is no longer an adherent. He was dispatched as a missionary to Taiwan, an experience he now views as a colonial enterprise, even as he appreciates what it gained him: complete fluency in Mandarin.
"The objective was to convert," Mr. Shupe said. "I became very competitive."
Two years later, he returned to the United States and enrolled at Brigham Young University. By the time he landed in China for an exchange semester at Nanjing University, he was eager to line up a supplier of neoprene for his business making protective sleeves for laptops.
He found a factory in southern China. The business grew, and Circuit City became his largest customer. But when the chain of electronics stores disappeared into bankruptcy in 2009, Mr. Shupe liquidated his inventory and shut down the business.
The same year, he joined with three other entrepreneurs to start Stance, a brand premised on the idea that socks were ripe for reinvention. They initially focused on skateboarders, using stretchy material that applied light compression to stop them from sliding down calves, while employing the designs of artists from Southern California.
They worked with a factory outside Shanghai, to make their products. Mr. Shupe supervised production, initially flying every few weeks between California and China. But the lack of daily supervision caused trouble. Machinery mysteriously disappeared from the factory. Orders got screwed up amid long-distance communication problems. After six perpetually jet-lagged months, he moved to China, living near the factory for six years.
When he started FutureStitch in 2017, he held on to Stance's operation in China.
From the beginning, he had intended to eventually establish a factory in the United States, but a series of developments accelerated the timetable.
First came the trade war, and then the pandemic, adding cost and delay. A single Covid case in 2020 at his factory in China forced the entire work force to quarantine, shutting down the operation for three weeks.
FutureStitch has contracts to make socks for Stance and other brands. Every month, it ships between 20 and 30 containers -- each 40-feet long -- to Southern California from China. But the costs of transportation multiplied. The time needed to get products to market increased to 10 weeks from three weeks.
This was especially troubling given Mr. Shupe's fixation with customized goods, which require speed to take advantage of momentary trends. He was pursuing plans to release socks with photographic images of key highlights in sporting events -- the game-winning shot in the N.B.A. Finals, the triumphant horse crossing the finish line at the Kentucky Derby.
"You look at the moment, the heat of the meme," he said. "By the end of the month, it's not even a tenth what it was."
Here was the impetus to set up the new factory in Oceanside.
His interest in social justice, combined with more pragmatic staffing considerations, prompted him to recruit women who had spent time behind bars.
Many employers avoid hiring people with criminal records, viewing them as risky. Mr. Shupe saw the potential for highly motivated employees who had already demonstrated resilience. His workers were uniquely invested in their jobs.
"We have to be here, or we go back to jail," said Ms. Almanza, 44, one of the factory's first hires. "It's our freedom that's on the line. We're working for a bigger purpose, because we're trying to change our lives."
She had previously been a phlebotomist, drawing blood at a hospital, where she earned nearly $ 28 an hour. Then a man she worked with began stalking her, she said, cornering her when they were alone in a lab. She filed a sexual harassment complaint, and was fired for poor attendance, she said, even though she had been missing shifts out fear for her safety.
Suddenly jobless, she lost her apartment. She and her children crammed into a mobile home parked in a friend's driveway, and then bounced between cheap motels.
She had struggled with drugs earlier in her life but had been clean for 17 years. She relapsed, and then resorted to dealing meth to feed her family, she said.
In June 2021, she was arrested and charged with conspiracy to distribute. She spent two months in a county jail, and two more at a federal detention center, pleading guilty in exchange for a sentence of a year of supervision.
At the government office where she applied for cash assistance, someone told her about FutureStitch. She applied and was hired at $ 20 an hour. She moved her family into an apartment and was soon promoted to supervisor.
At the factory, she pilots a forklift and participates in yoga classes taught by the head of human resources, Sarah Porter.
Where many hourly workers in the United States must endure bosses who schedule shifts with little notice, upending family life, FutureStitch has turned the equation around. Employees can give notice as late as a day in advance if they can't work. They are excused to attend meetings with probation officers.
The company is constructing a skateboard park to allow mothers to bring their older kids to work.
"I want us to be not just a place of employment," said Ms. Porter, who is Mr. Shupe's sister. "I want us to be a sanctuary."
Mr. Shupe is the father of three, but the presence of single, working mothers whose time is especially compressed has supplied him marketable insights into the everyday problems of footwear, such as the casual torture of putting shoes and socks on small children with other ideas. This was the genesis for his latest obsession, a cross between a shoe and a sock that has a strong sole, yet can be worn by itself and tossed in the washing machine.
On a recent morning, Mr. Shupe convened his design team to examine a prototype. The outsole will be made of Vibram, which is made in the United States from recycled materials. And the product could be fashioned through five stages of manufacturing, compared with the 80 or 90 involved in some footwear.
"It has all the right formulas for 'Made in the U.S.A.,"' Mr. Shupe said. "This is about creating something here in the United States with interesting design. We'd have to story tell about this."
Photograph Taylor Shupe, above at lower left and below, has hired formerly incarcerated women among his employees at the new FutureStitch factory in Oceanside, Calif., where high-end socks go through the design and production process. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN FRANCIS PETERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU8) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU8.

Subject: Vaccines; Semiconductors; Startups; Electric vehicles; Social networks; Tariffs; Manufacturing; Subsidies; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Social networks Tariffs Manufacturing Subsidies Factories

Location: Beijing China; United States--US; China; Taiwan

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/25/business/the-lure-of-the-made-in-america-sales-pitch.html

Title: An Importer Revamps to Be 'Made in America':   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 26, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2790714923

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/importer-revamps-be-made-america/docview/2790714923/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 26, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Brands Ditch the Plastic Waste To Bring You a Greener Cleaner: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Shain, Susan

Publication info: Shain, Susan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brands-ditch-plastic-waste-bring-you-greener/docview/2788304054/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Headway is an initiative from The New York Times exploring the world's challenges through the lens of progress. We look for promising solutions, notable experiments and lessons from what's been tried.
Every week, Angela Espinoza Pierson looked at her recycling bin -- filled with detergent jugs, shampoo bottles and clamshell containers that once held strawberries -- with mixed feelings. Sure, it was a lot of plastic. But it was going to be recycled.
Or so she thought. Then her husband sent her some articles revealing that less than 6 percent of the country's plastic gets recycled, and that even recycled plastic can only be reused once or twice. Ms. Espinoza Pierson, who lives in Buda, Texas, was shocked. "All the plastic that we thought was getting recycled, it's not really, and it's just going to sit there," she said.
Determined to cut back on her plastic consumption, Ms. Espinoza Pierson got a starter kit from a company selling refillable household cleaners. In it were tablets containing concentrated hand soap as well as multi-surface, glass and bathroom cleaners -- and four empty containers. She filled each one with tap water, then dropped in a tablet and watched it dissolve. If she is happy with the cleaners, she will order more tablets but reuse the containers. No new plastic required.
Given plastic's detrimental effects on the environment, nearly three-quarters of Americans say they are trying to reduce their reliance on single-use plastic, according to Pew Research Center. Since plastic is everywhere and avoiding it altogether is extraordinarily difficult, some, like Ms. Espinoza Pierson, have revived a once-customary practice: refilling containers rather than disposing of them. If just 10 to 20 percent of plastic packaging were reused, a report from the World Economic Forum estimates, the amount of plastic waste entering the ocean could be cut in half.
Though environmentally minded consumers have long been able to refill containers by making their own concoctions or shopping at certain stores -- like the now-proliferating number of zero-waste boutiques -- finding mass market refillable products has been more challenging.
That's started to change. Over the past few years, Windex, owned by SC Johnson, introduced concentrates that dissolve in water; Dove began selling a deodorant stick that slots into a reusable case; and The Body Shop added refill stations to half its American stores.
These are tiny experiments in a country that generates nearly 500 pounds of plastic waste per person, per year. But Matt Prindiville, the chief executive of Upstream, a reuse advocacy organization and consultancy, says his organization has seen the number of reuse-refill start-ups grow from a dozen in 2019 to more than 150 today. "If you asked me about this three years ago, I wouldn't have guessed at how quickly the interest in the sector has blown up," Mr. Prindiville said. "Not just from the do-gooders, but from the biggest brands in the world."
'We're Just Shipping Around Water'
American beverage companies switched to single-use plastic containers during the 1970s, largely because it saved money, said Bart Elmore, an associate professor of environmental history at Ohio State University. No longer would companies have to collect or clean refillable bottles.
Since throwing things away, rather than cleaning and reusing them, was convenient, too, it seemed like progress. An ad for Toss'ems, a single-use baby bottle introduced in 1971, summed up the ethos with a question: "In this disposable age, is there a reason for the non-disposable bottle?" Manufacturers and consumers alike fell in love with the lightweight and unbreakable material. More than a third of all plastic ever produced has been used for packaging, most of it created and disposed of in the same year.
Today, the pressure to reduce corporate carbon footprints is forcing a second look at all that plastic packaging. "Reuse, for some types of products and packaging," Mr. Prindiville said, "can put a huge dent in reducing those climate impacts."
Household cleaners seem particularly primed for a refill revolution. Whereas shampoo and conditioner involve complicated chemical formulas, many cleaners can be easily concentrated and reconstituted with water. In fact, that's what makes up the bulk of traditional cleaning products, leading Mr. Prindiville to describe the current system this way: "We're just shipping around water. And that's dumb."
In contrast, the concentrated surface cleaners sold by Grove Collaborative each contain 1 ounce of liquid, far less than a standard 16-ounce bottle of ready-to-use cleaner, and thus require less fuel to transport. Grove's spray bottles are meant to be reused, and its concentrates are packaged in glass or aluminum -- materials that, unlike plastic, can be recycled over and over.
Grove's products are now on shelves in more than 5,000 stores, including Target, CVS and Walmart, and the company has seen its net revenue from refillables grow by more than 600 percent since 2018. But with $ 322 million in total revenue, it is a tiny player in the $ 30 billion home care market.
The Clorox Company, on the other hand, has a huge reach. Last year, the $ 7.1 billion company, which sells products in 100 countries, stepped into the refillable market with cleaning spray concentrates that can be emptied into a reusable plastic spray bottle. (Packaging accounts for more than half of all trigger spray manufacturers' greenhouse gas emissions, transportation for another third.)
This product has been in the works since 2019, when Clorox pledged to halve its virgin plastic and fiber packaging by 2030. Jodi Russell, the vice president of research and development for Clorox's cleaning division, was one of the people tasked with making it happen.
Along with her colleagues, Ms. Russell, who is a chemical engineer, spent the better part of three years formulating the concentrate, developing the supply chains to manufacture it, and sourcing longer-lasting bottles and spray triggers.
Though refillables account for just 5 percent of all trigger-spray sales, Ms. Russell is eager to see that figure grow. Concentrated cleaners not only help manufacturers lower transportation costs and reduce their carbon footprint, she says, but also help retailers by reducing the need for shelf space for bulky bottles.
But research commissioned by Clorox notes that unless all manufacturers adopt refillables, consumers will be confused, ultimately, Ms. Russell said, "destroying all of the economic value." That has led Clorox to become somewhat evangelical about concentrated refillables, hosting presentations at conferences and funding an assessment that showed that switching from ready-to-use trigger sprays to concentrated refills could cut cleaning manufacturers' greenhouse gas emissions from trigger sprays by at least 58 percent.
Not everyone is as enthusiastic. Jan Dell, a chemical engineer and founder of the anti-plastic pollution organization The Last Beach Cleanup, noted that many cleaning products are housed in PET or HDPE, two types of plastic with relatively high recycling rates. So she is less concerned about them -- and far more concerned about the packaging of other products.
"Where these companies should be focusing is on this vast portfolio of everything else that isn't recyclable, that is single use and that often becomes plastic pollution," she said, pointing to SC Johnson's Ziploc bags and Clorox's Hidden Valley ranch dipping cups. "This is just a classic example of big corporations doing a stunt over here on something that's not the main issue to distract from all the single-use plastic they're pushing out."
(In an emailed statement, Alexis Limberakis, senior director of sustainability at The Clorox Company, noted that Hidden Valley Ranch bottles, which make up the majority of that brand's packaging, are made from PET or HDPE, and that the dipping cups "represent a small portion" of Clorox's portfolio.)
The Rocky Road to a Refill Revolution
The biggest roadblock to refills, however, may be consumers. While Americans say they are concerned about plastic, persuading them to switch products -- especially to ones that require an extra step and have a higher upfront cost -- is another story.
Kate White, a professor at the Sauder School of Business at the University of British Columbia, studies what motivates consumers to adopt pro-environmental behaviors. Beyond the perceived inconvenience of refilling in general, she said cleaning routines are deeply ingrained, noting: "If you use Tide, it's quite likely that's what your family used."
Another challenge is that, unlike cars or clothes, cleaning products are literally hidden under the sink. This reduces "social influence," which Dr. White called one of the "main drivers of sustainable behavior."
To that end, Dr. White said refillables could receive a boost if they become "connected to a particular identity," especially one that is "bougie or fancy." But that's a fate environmental advocates are trying to avoid. As Upstream's Mr. Prindiville put it: "We don't want reuse to be the new organic, where you have the wealthier part of the population consuming one way and everybody else consuming a different way."
At the moment, most refillable products are more expensive than their ready-to-use counterparts. A Grove starter kit, for example, costs much more than a ready-to-use spray from Mrs. Meyer's, a brand also marketed as "natural." But refills cost slightly less, which allows consumers to recoup costs over time if they continue reusing the bottle. "We don't have the scale today to deliver at the lowest cost," said Stuart Landesberg, a founder of Grove and the company's chief executive. "But it's not like we're making a Tesla and everyone else is driving a Camry. We're in the same ballpark."
Ms. Russell of Clorox is confident that costs will shrink as the refill market grows. The company had to invest in consumer marketing, new manufacturing equipment and additional packaging with user instructions -- costs that could eventually fall. According to research commissioned by Clorox, the market will reach a tipping point when concentrated refills account for more than half of cleaning spray sales. "That's really when the scale is unlocked," Ms. Russell said.
Both advocates and business owners are hoping that moment arrives soon.
"When I think about the steps we need to take, No. 1 is move people to refillables," Mr. Landesberg said. "It's incredible that we, as a society, feel entitled to create garbage that will last forever for something we're going to use for 90 minutes in aggregate. That is an insane paradigm."
The Headway initiative is funded through grants from the Ford Foundation, the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF), with Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors serving as a fiscal sponsor. The Woodcock Foundation is a funder of Headway's public square. Funders have no control over the selection, focus of stories or the editing process and do not review stories before publication. The Times retains full editorial control of the Headway initiative.
Headway is an initiative from The New York Times exploring the world's challenges through the lens of progress. We look for promising solutions, notable experiments and lessons from what's been tried. The Headway initiative is funded through grants from the Ford Foundation, the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF), with Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors serving as a fiscal sponsor. The Woodcock Foundation is a funder of Headway's public square. Funders have no control over the selection, focus of stories or the editing process and do not review stories before publication. The Times retains full editorial control of the Headway initiative.
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONJE THILESEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Manufacturers; Cleaning compounds; Recycling; Greenhouse gases; Research & development--R & D; Emissions; Plastic pollution

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturers

Company / organization: Name: S C Johnson & Son Inc; NAICS: 325320, 325611, 325612; Name: Clorox Co; NAICS: 325612, 327992

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/17/headway/spray-bottle-clorox-plastic-refillable-recycle.html

Title: Brands Ditch the Plastic Waste To Bring You a Greener Cleaner:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 20, 2023

column: Headway

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2788304054

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/brands-ditch-plastic-waste-bring-you-greener/docview/2788304054/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 20, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Could This Man Shape the Future Of the G.O.P.?: [Op-Ed]

Author: Pogue, James

Publication info: Pogue, James. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/could-this-man-shape-future-g-o-p/docview/2785847675/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The self-proclaimed "greenest member" of Congress is a Republican from rural Kentucky. He lives in an off-the-grid home he built himself, using timbers cut and rock quarried from his family cattle farm. He pipes in water from a nearby pond, and powers the home with solar panels and a battery from a wrecked Tesla that he salvaged and retrofitted.
But while he lives on, and even makes part of his living from, the land, very few people would call him an environmentalist. The car he drives back and forth from Washington has a license plate advertising his support for coal. He likes to lean on his experience as a robotics engineer to argue against precipitously switching over to renewable energy, claiming that rapid changes could crash America's power grids. And he once mocked John Kerry, who has a degree in political science, in a congressional hearing on climate threats: "I think it's somewhat appropriate that someone with a pseudoscience degree," he said, "is here pushing pseudoscience."
Mr. Kerry stumbled, visibly surprised and angry. "Are you serious? I mean, this is really seriously happening here?"
It was hard to say. From the outside, Thomas Massie can look like yet another congressional gadfly courting controversy by, for instance, introducing a one-sentence bill that would abolish the Department of Education, or posing for a Christmas photo with his wife and children, each of them holding a weapon, from an M60 to an Uzi, or speaking at the 60th anniversary celebration of the far-right John Birch Society.
But Mr. Massie is not just another loony G.O.P. backbencher. Outside the public eye, he has been quietly advancing what for a Republican politician is an unusual set of stances: evincing deep opposition to the national security state, resistance to the influence wielded by corporations and interest groups over our policymaking, and a sense that Americans need a better, more sustainable relationship to the land. It is a politics almost always built around the idea of scaling back, making systems smaller, simpler and more local. That's an odd kind of politics for a Republican, or any major elected official, but it suddenly seems to have appeal even beyond the G.O.P.'s narrow base, and it has already made Mr. Massie the closest thing the party has to a cult hero lawmaker.
"I absolutely love Massie," Senator J.D. Vance of Ohio told me recently. The conservative talk show host Candace Owens recently called him her "favorite congressman," a description that I've heard a half dozen or so times in the past year or so. "After 30 years of interviewing members of Congress," Tucker Carlson told me, "I expect them to be conventional bordering on stupid, because most of them are. Massie's the opposite. He's thoughtful and interesting as hell. I don't know why he's not more famous."
One of the reasons Mr. Carlson seems to appreciate Mr. Massie so much is that he shares his skepticism of mainstream climate policy. Mr. Massie has emerged as one of the G.O.P.'s most dedicated critics of liberal climate plans. He wants solutions to happen at the local level and often hints that powerful international forces -- technocrats, multinational corporations and organizations like the World Economic Forum -- are coming together to constrain the American way of life, uproot our national culture in favor of a bland, globalized liberalism and turn us into compliant and pliable consumers, easy to govern and control. It is a view that will do much in the coming years to shape not just fights over climate policy, but also the future of American conservatism.
"Their plans are based on political science" Mr. Massie recently told Mr. Carlson, referring to world leaders pushing mainstream climate policy.
Mr. Carlson agreed. "It seems like an intentional effort to drive down -- dramatically drive down the standard of living for average people," he said. "Why would they want to do that?"
"They want a lower quality of life," Mr. Massie replied. "You're gonna have nothing, and you're gonna be happy about it, you know?" he said. "That's their motto."
The Republican Party is in a moment of flux, which in mainstream political media is often simplified as a conflict between the party's neoconservative "establishment" and Trump-aligned populists. But this factional division obscures a much deeper conversation over the future direction of the party. A debate has emerged over what it means to be a conservative party today. Many on the right have concluded that the Republican Party that embraced corporate-led globalization and wars abroad, without any apparent effort to stop environmental degradation, did not actually conserve anything about the American way of life Republicans claimed to hold dear. This has helped push politicians at the highest level of Republican politics, from Donald Trump to Ron DeSantis, to rail against "globalist" forces and institutions, the same ones Mr. Massie was winking at on "Tucker Carlson Tonight." The true conflict in the G.O.P. today is about whether the party can -- or should -- reshape itself in response to the antiglobalist ferment.
Mr. Massie, who passed along a polite note declining to speak for this article, will almost certainly never be president, and it seems unlikely that he even wants to rise to the Senate. In many of the unguarded interviews he gives to obscure homesteader or libertarian podcasts, he seems to dislike being a politician. He calls his farm "the Shire" and Washington "Mordor." He doesn't seem to think of himself as representative of a movement -- unlike Mr. Vance, who lives just across the Ohio River from Mr. Massie's district in Cincinnati, and who has proudly aligned himself with nationalists and populist critics of globalism both around the country and around the world.
But Mr. Massie's lifestyle and brand of politics, the same brand that once marked him as a quirky outlier, have aligned with the current political moment -- when many on the right and left are looking to pull back from the hyper-complex systems that govern the modern world, and move toward a more rooted way of life. Today, many on the right are even growing more boldly critical of the disastrous environmental effects of corporate malfeasance all around them, best seen in the outrage that developed on right-wing media over the train derailment in East Palestine, Ohio.
Mr. Massie's politics are very much at odds with the interests of the Republican Party's traditional donor class and leadership. But the party, torn between corporatist neoconservatism and inchoate MAGA, has faltered in two national elections in a row, which may explain why Mr. Massie seems to be drawing attention as an idiosyncratic voice for an alternate future of Republican politics. "There's an energy around Thomas now," said Jeremy Carl, a former official in Mr. Trump's Department of the Interior, who has known Mr. Massie for years, "just like there was an energy around Trump."
Mr. Massie is already anticipating a chance to wield more influence than he's ever had. He supported the election of Kevin McCarthy as House speaker despite their ideological differences, and people who know him well pointed out to me that recently he has been making nice even with more mainstream members of Congress, pulling back from being a "bomb thrower," as Mr. Carl put it. He now sits on the House's powerful Rules Committee.
But even if he never rises further than that committee, he could still help shape the future trajectory of his party, grafting his unusual mixture of political stances into its DNA. His politics don't really have a name. But there's something a little Jeffersonian about them -- as if Mr. Massie is channeling the third president, whom he often invokes and whose desire to build an America of small farmers and producers he shares. If he and his younger fans gain the money, influence and institutional backing to help shift the party in his direction, they may well reveal a conservatism capable of appealing to many now disillusioned by the party. Mr. Massie has already gained many supporters outside traditional Republican circles: neo-homesteaders, hippie back-to-the-landers, cranky libertarians and self-described "marginalized environmentalists." They are part of a sphere that has grown quickly since 2020 -- one of people worried that our economy, environment and government are spinning out of control, and gripped by the fear that our society is becoming an unfree dystopia ruled by bureaucrats and technocrats.
In this world, it's as much Mr. Massie's lifestyle as his politics that have won him fans. He grew up in the tiny town of Vanceburg, Ky., and went on to M.I.T., where his high school sweetheart soon joined him. Together, they founded a virtual reality company while they were still undergrads. Mr. Massie now holds about two dozen patents.
They sold the company and moved back to Kentucky, beginning work on their off-the-grid home in 2003. "We wanted to raise our kids the way we had been raised," he told an interviewer who filmed him for a 2018 documentary titled "Off the Grid," which helped to make him a niche celebrity in an age when lots of people are suddenly getting into homesteading, prepping and do-it-yourself farming. They began work on their surprisingly stately house while living in a 900-square-foot mobile home, constructing it as much as possible with materials coming directly from land that had been in Mr. Massie's wife's family for generations. "I think there's this notion that if something's available locally it's not as good, that it's got to be exotic," he said, while chiseling a piece of limestone. "I want a house that's coming out of the ground and belongs here."
He ran for a county office in 2010 as a disciple of the libertarian-minded Senate candidate Rand Paul, campaigning in part by playing banjo at local bluegrass jams. "I guess part of what endeared me to them is that I wasn't that good," he said. Both men won their races, and Mr. Paul endorsed Mr. Massie in his first U.S. House race two years later.
Once in Washington, he alternately annoyed and endeared himself to members of both parties. He is loudly anti-abortion, despite his libertarianism. But he's quick to denounce the military-industrial complex, and more than any other Republican in Congress, proved willing to join antiwar Democrats in trying to end American involvement in overseas conflicts. He voted against disaster-relief bills, but also introduced legislation to reduce some federal prison sentences and reform civil asset forfeiture. He fought to repeal the Patriot Act and introduced bills to allow for legalized hemp production and the sale of raw milk across state lines. He remained surprisingly independent of Donald Trump, who once called him a "third-rate grandstander," and joined the group of seven conservatives in the House who -- while voicing concerns about supposed issues with the vote -- voted to certify the results of the 2020 presidential election.
As perhaps the G.O.P.'s most vocal opponent of Covid restrictions and vaccine mandates, he came off as a kook to a national audience that largely knew little else about him. But his dogged vaccine skepticism and anti-lockdown activism endeared him to many young conservatives -- like Catharine O'Neill, a 20-something veteran of the Trump State Department, who moved to Wyoming in 2021 to operate a cattle business. Mr. Massie is "the one who really fought the vaccines and the Covid tyranny, for lack of a better term," she told me. "In some cases against Trump."
Ms. O'Neill describes him as her ideal president, and views his seemingly disparate political stances as a kind of sui generis forerunner to a politics bubbling up among many conservatives of her generation.
The proposal that best shows his political vision is the PRIME Act, which would allow small farmers to process meat at local facilities, rather than at large slaughterhouses that have the funds to pay for a full-time, on-site U.S.D.A. inspector. This offers a way to sidestep a meat production system dominated by an oligopoly of four gigantic corporations whose environmentally destructive, deeply cruel processes barely resemble the act of farming as we once understood it. It's a small but real example of how at least some deregulation could help regular people exist closer to the land, a half-step or so freer of the corporate systems that order so much of our lives today. "I think that done right, regenerative agriculture can make a big difference," Representative Teresa Leger Fernandez of New Mexico, a Democrat who signed on to co-sponsor the bill, told me. "We need to be smaller and for those small farms to be profitable."
Ms. O'Neill was just one of any number of young, often eco-minded conservatives who were surprisingly willing to talk about Mr. Massie with me. "I find Massie compelling in part because he's so legible to me," said Micah Meadowcroft, an editor at The American Conservative who grew up in Washington State and half-jokingly calls his own political vision "Bison Nationalism." "Growing up in the Pacific Northwest," he told me, "skepticism of the federal government and corporate power went together with a desire to live at as human a scale as possible. That characterized all the conservatives I knew."
Mr. Massie has "been very savvy about figuring out how to take his ideological and intellectual commitments and making them relevant for an audience that might not necessarily share all of them," Mr. Carl said.
That audience, perhaps surprisingly, includes both conservation-minded conservatives and localist-minded environmentalists. "The sphere is basically people who are concerned about the state of society and looking for ways to thrive that don't require widespread social, economic or political control," said Ashley Colby, an environmental sociologist and former long-haul trucker who now runs a sustainable agriculture school in Uruguay. Even some environmentalists, who until recently would have considered themselves liberals, have come to distrust large-scale systems of almost every kind -- including, for many, the systems we would use to enact global-scale climate policy. Ms. Colby described them as "a coalition of moms who are frustrated with the school system, moms who don't trust mainstream food, and it includes some of the Right Wing Bodybuilder types." (The Right Wing Bodybuilders are a largely online community that sees local agriculture and natural lifestyles as a path to resist a supposedly oppressive globalist order.)
Some of these Right Wing Bodybuilder types -- a growing and influential part of young conservative culture these days -- are self-described racists, which points to a thorny problem in localist conversations these days: For a slice of the online right, building up local agriculture and a lifestyle in tune with nature goes hand in hand with a project of keeping the American landmass from being overrun by dark-skinned immigrants. Mr. Massie himself has never made much of the immigration issue, aside from the usual Republican pronouncements on hoping we "secure the border," and I know of no reason to think that he is caught up in the nativist tendencies swirling around the online right today. But people often look at him and see what they want to see. "Massie is such a chad," an anonymous small-scale rancher and well-known Right Wing Bodybuilder messaged me recently, using online shorthand for a powerful, handsome male. "Please quote me."
Ms. Colby, who does not consider herself right wing, has often been attacked online by people in the Right Wing Bodybuilder subculture. She discovered Mr. Massie by watching the "Off the Grid" documentary. "With Massie there's this kind of Wendell Berry-style pride of place," she said, referencing the Kentuckian novelist, environmental activist and farmer whose writings have become canonical American expressions of rootedness and connection to place. "This thing of 'I'm from this area, I built this home with stone that came from this land,"' she said. "That deeply resonates with people beyond a political level."
"There is this lack of kinship and tie to place that people feel now," she went on. Mr. Massie, she said, is one of the few politicians in America who can tap into that feeling.
The trouble for Mr. Massie, or anyone who believes in building an ecological ethos by getting Americans back to the land, is climate. Mainstream policymakers who believe that a calamity is imminent argue that federal regulations, corporate subsidies and huge global initiatives are the best way to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. Mr. Massie disagrees with both the diagnosis and the cure.
In congressional hearings, he tends to express a strain of "climate realism," that, on the right, has largely taken the place of outright denial that the planet is warming. In his view, we will need to keep exploiting America's fossil fuels for decades to come, and the real reason to shift to renewables should be to make us "independent," both on a personal and national scale.
Mr. Massie occasionally hints at criticisms that even environmentalists on the left raise. "Is my car greener because they mined some cobalt somewhere? I'm not sure," Mr. Massie recently said. "I haven't done the math." It was a sly way of raising the possibility that a shift to "green energy" would do nothing to prevent habitat destruction, or to reduce the spiraling consumptive cycle that produced the climate crisis in the first place.
Mr. Massie has even opposed the Recovering America's Wildlife Act, a bill that would be a massive step toward conserving the hunting-and-fishing way of life that so many conservatives hold dear, presumably on the grounds that it involves too much government spending. And he has objected to plans like the Green New Deal for much the same reason. The implicit argument he is making seems to suit the corporatist wing of the Republican Party perfectly well: that mitigating -- and preparing for -- a warming planet is a burden Americans must shoulder as individuals. People who do not have the means to build an off-the-grid regenerative homestead will have to trust, as Mr. Massie does, that the predictions of "climate alarmists" are wildly overblown.
The truth is that a genuinely "green" future would require bigger shifts in our policy and way of life than either Mr. Massie or many global policymakers seem willing to accept. "The thing that gets talked about the least and that should get talked about the most is energy demand reduction," the prominent climate scientist Peter Kalmus told me recently. He suggested that it will be impossible for "eight billion people on a finite planet" to build an ecological future while still maintaining our system of unrestrained material consumption.
This is something global leaders don't particularly like to talk about, which has left debates to rage at the margins. Food politics is rapidly becoming a new dividing line. People in the localist sphere are now at bitter odds with prominent climate activists like the Guardian columnist George Monbiot, who advocates a "#farmfree" future where most of humanity's food will be grown in labs.
This vision is exactly what many on the antiglobalist right fear to be the endgame of climate policy -- a world where people "live in the pods and eat the bugs," as the oft-repeated shorthand has it, and technocrats and bureaucrats force people to cram into dense cities, ban them from driving cars, and force them to eat food they have no power to produce themselves. "When people who would abort a baby the day it's born, threw kids under the bus during the pandemic, take kids to drag shows, and saddle our children with crippling debt," Mr. Massie tweeted in October, "tell you how to live because they're concerned about sea levels in 100 years, hide your children."
It's a debate that cuts to the heart of American politics. Mr. Massie's version of being the "greenest member of Congress" is an explicit throwback to a Jeffersonian vision -- of America as a country of people who live and work close to the land, with minimal government interference and a maximum of personal responsibility for the future of the nation. It is also a vision of rugged self-reliance that has long informed back-to-the-landers on the left, but that many on that side of politics now regard as the most insidious of American political poisons, one that has made collective action on issues like climate change impossible to achieve in this country.
"If Thomas Jefferson could have had solar panels at Monticello, he'd have had solar panels," Mr. Massie told the libertarian economist and podcaster Matt Kibbe in 2019. "The less you have to go to the store and buy, the less dependent you are on Walmart -- it's not just that you're greener, but you're more independent."
"Independent, green, sustainable, frugal -- those overlap," he said. It's a vision that combines libertarianism, environmentalism and antiglobalism into one lifestyle package. It's also one with great appeal to conservatives who think that the systems that order modern life present as grave a threat to our future as a warming planet does. And on that warming planet, Americans may need to learn how to fend for themselves.
"Do they have solar panels on their house?" he asked Mr. Kibbe rhetorically, about liberal members of Congress. "I think maybe they've got some guilt. They know they're not strong enough to do it on their own," he said. "So they assume you're not strong enough to do it on your own."
James Pogue (@jhensonpogue) is a reporter who covers politics and land issues. He is working on a book about the State of Jefferson, a rural region spanning Northern California and Southern Oregon.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram .
Illustration This article appeared in print on page SR4, SR5.

Subject: Conservatism; Climate policy; Political science; Environmental policy; Pseudoscience; Congressional elections; Political advertising; Political parties

Location: United States--US; Ohio; Kentucky

Company / organization: Name: Republican Party; NAICS: 813940; Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/opinion/thomas-massie-republican-party.html

Title: Could This Man Shape the Future Of the G.O.P.?:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 12, 2023

column: Guest Essay

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Opinions, Commentary

ProQuest document ID: 2785847675

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/could-this-man-shape-future-g-o-p/docview/2785847675/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-05-31

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

What’s Holding Up New York’s Climate Progress? Apartment Buildings.

Author: Chen, Stefanos; Choi-Schagrin, Winston

Publication info: Chen, Stefanos; Choi-Schagrin, Winston. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-s-holding-up-new-york-climate-progress/docview/2785385052/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Craig Hart is troubled by a multimillion-dollar puzzle: How to get his condo building to conform with the city’s sweeping new climate law before potentially steep penalties begin next year.
“I’ve been looking at every option I can think of, and I don’t know what to do,” said Hart, the board president of the Washington Heights condo. Hart, who studied ways to prevent climate change at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, believes in the aims of the new measure: to cut down on greenhouse gas emissions that are warping weather patterns and raising sea levels.
Now, months before compliance begins, a mix of real estate interest groups are lobbying to delay the process or carve out exemptions, claiming that the requirements are too burdensome for residential boards with limited funding. But environmental groups warn that weakening the law could imperil its goals at a time when climate change is already endangering the city.
Hart, for one, is not sure where he will find the money to get his century-old condo into compliance. Should he add solar panels and heat pumps to a roof already due for a $650,000 replacement? Install an updated fossil-fuel-burning boiler system that will still fall short as requirements become stricter in coming years? What about a laundry list of other costly repairs and renovations?
“I want to be zero carbon, zero penalties and zero debt,” he said. “But it’s not going to be an easy road.”
Local Law 97, part of New York City’s Climate Mobilization Act of 2019, is one of the country’s boldest climate laws, with half a dozen other municipalities pursuing similar models. Its goal is to cut carbon emissions by 40% by 2030 and reach net-zero by 2050 by setting increasingly stringent limits on the city’s biggest polluters — buildings.
The largest buildings in New York City — some 50,000 structures representing everything from office towers to supermarkets to hospitals — must drastically cut their carbon emissions from sources like fossil-fuel-burning boilers. As the clock ticks, property managers are coming to a stark realization: the city’s drafty and aging apartment buildings might face the toughest adjustments.
The most significant increase in emissions in the United States last year came from homes and buildings, which burn fossil fuels like natural gas in furnaces, water heaters and other machinery. They produce greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and methane that trap heat and warm the planet.
Already average global temperatures are set to rise between 2.1 and 2.9 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, far above the 1.5-degree threshold that scientists believe will bring about major, irreversible effects like sea level rise measured in feet, not inches.
About 70% of New York City’s greenhouse gas emissions come from buildings. The law targets properties over 25,000 square feet, ranging from low-rise buildings with a few dozen apartments to the tallest office towers. Though they are a small fraction of the city’s million buildings, the structures still produce roughly half of all emissions from buildings.
Office towers, which generally rely more on electricity for their energy needs, are not the category of property likely to face the toughest route to compliance. As the grid moves away from fossil fuels, their carbon output will also drop, said Louise Yeung, the chief climate officer at the City Comptroller’s Office.
About 60% of the properties that need to comply in 2024 are residential — including a hodgepodge of apartment buildings with a heavy reliance on fossil fuels for their heating and cooling. Those not in compliance could face close to a total of $60 million in fines per year, according to an analysis of city data by the Urban Green Council, a nonprofit advocacy group focused on decarbonizing buildings.
Some properties, including affordable housing developments, will be subject to alternative or delayed compliance. Most buildings already meet the 2024 limits, but a majority could fail to reach the stricter goals outlined for 2030 and beyond.
“Local Law 97 is going to be hard,” said Eunice Ko, the deputy director of the New York City Environmental Justice Alliance, a nonprofit representing low-income neighborhoods and communities of color. “But would you rather your home be inundated with flooding or have 20 days over 90 degrees in the summer?”
Difficult Choices
Glen Oaks Village is a cooperative of more than 2,900 apartments in 134 low-rise buildings in northeastern Queens. With over 100 acres of manicured lawns and tidy brick houses, it has more in common with the suburbs of Long Island than the towers of Manhattan. To comply with Local Law 97, the co-op board plans to replace all 94 of its gas-and-oil boilers with more energy-efficient models. It could take between five and 10 years and cost around $24.5 million, said Bob Friedrich, the board president.
But even that investment will not be enough to avoid paying penalties of around $700,000 a year, starting in 2030, because the property would still produce too much pollution, he said.
“They are not looking at the real-life cost of this,” Friedrich said, noting that the penalties would force the board to sharply increase maintenance fees.
“I’m terrified of it,” said Arlene Bett, 60, a longtime resident who has paid off a small one-bedroom apartment in the complex but worries about her $500-a-month maintenance fee ballooning. “I will not be able to afford it, and there’s no place cheaper,” she said.
A greener option would be to replace the boilers with electric heat pumps, but that would cost close to $10 million more, Friedrich said.
While the upfront cost is substantial, going electric would be the best strategy to avoid penalties and eventually lower the property’s utility bills, said Darren Johnson, a senior account manager with Bright Power, an energy consulting firm that is advising the co-op. And the current generation of heat pumps work well in cold weather, despite concerns about the efficiency of some older models, he said.
“The choice isn’t Tesla or bust,” said Donnel Baird, the chief executive of BlocPower, an energy consulting firm. “You can have a Prius,” and still make meaningful cuts to carbon emissions. There are less costly improvements that a building can pursue first, he said, like swapping out incandescent light bulbs with LEDs and improving insulation.
But for the city to meet its goals in 2030, many buildings may need to carry out more extensive work, like installing heat pumps or rewiring their electricity. It’s expensive work that could be particularly challenging for middle-income residential buildings that have more modest reserves and fewer options for financing, compared to some large commercial properties.
There are also a growing number of low-interest loans and grants for green-energy improvements, as well as billions in federal subsidies earmarked for infrastructure projects, Baird said.
A spokesperson for the Department of Buildings, which oversees the rule’s enforcement, said the path to carbon neutrality by 2050 was designed to allow property owners to plan ahead. NYC Accelerator, a city program, offers free guidance to help buildings comply with the law.
Growing Concern
In May, a group of residential property owners, including Friedrich, sued the city to prevent the enforcement of Local Law 97, claiming that the penalties are too burdensome and target the wrong buildings, among other arguments. The case is ongoing.
In February, Vickie Paladino, a Republican city councilwoman representing northeast Queens, proposed a bill to delay enforcement of the law for seven years.
Critics of the law have pushed for additional carve-outs, like the option to buy more renewable energy credits, or RECs, to offset their emissions. The credits allow buildings to pay off a portion of their excess carbon emissions by buying electricity from renewable sources, like wind and solar farms.
The city can also reduce penalties on buildings that make a “good faith effort” to get in compliance, but the criteria for the rule, as well as guidance on energy credits, is not expected to be finalized until later this year. If buildings are allowed to buy too many credits, it could weaken the law overall, said Pete Sikora, the climate and inequality campaigns director of New York Communities for Change, a community organizing group.
“We won the battle to pass the law but now they’re trying to gut the law in its implementation,” he said.
For Hart, the condo board president, theory and practice are clashing in his six-story, prewar condo in Washington Heights. In his day job as the executive director of the Pace Energy and Climate Center, a policy think tank, he works on cutting-edge renewable energy projects.
But at home, he has to figure out the best replacement for a more than 40-year-old boiler without breaking the bank.
Then there are the challenges of retrofitting a century-old property. The building is in a landmark district, complicating efforts to upgrade the facade. Electric heat pumps can be installed in apartments but require careful routing through the guts of the building.
“I’m afraid we are nowhere near where we need to be,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Fines & penalties; Boilers; Site planning; Emissions

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: New York Communities For Change; New York City Environmental Justice Alliance; United States; Urban Green Council; National Museum Of African American History And Culture; Long Island (Ny); Glen Oaks (Queens, Ny); Manhattan (Nyc); Queens (Nyc); Washington Heights (Manhattan, Ny); Republican Party; Buildings Department (Nyc); New York City; Baird, Donnel; Weather; Real Estate (Commercial); Earmarks (Finance); Fines (Penalties); Oil (Petr oleum) And Gasoline; Natural Gas; Relocation Of Business; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Floods; Nonprofit Organizations; Greenhouses; Income; Electric Light And Power; Pollution; Railroads; Affordable Housing; Sustainable Living; Home Repairs And Improvements; Buildings (Structures); Solar Energy; Energy Efficiency; Wind Power; Philanthropy; Condominiums; Law And Legislation; Real Estate And Housing (Residential); Alternative And Renewable Energy; Infrastructure (Public Works); Carbon Dioxide; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Global Warming; Heating

Title: What’s Holding Up New York’s Climate Progress? Apartment Buildings.

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Mar 10, 2023

Dateline: 2023-03-10 @ 16:28

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2785385052

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-s-holding-up-new-york-climate-progress/docview/2785385052/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 10, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Little Houses on the Horizon: [Real Estate Desk]

Author: Lasky, Julie

Publication info: Lasky, Julie. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/little-houses-on-horizon/docview/2775347533/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: At the International Builders' Show, exhibitors offered mini prefab houses, kitchens 'like Swiss Army knives' and other strategies for dealing with a constrained market.
A tug of war is being waged over the size of the American home.
Pulling in one direction are the forces of expansion: the well-financed dream for many of a sprawling single-family house; the NIMBY activism that prevents the incursions of multifamily buildings into low-density neighborhoods; and -- not least, in the age of Covid -- the desire to contain one's life and work under a single roof without losing one's mind.
Lining up on the other side are the powers of compression: shrinking family sizes; rising energy costs; and policies that seek to relieve today's affordable housing crisis by creating more apartments and micro homes.
What is the net effect? That depends on when you freeze the frame. In November, the National Association of Home Builders reported that the median size of new family homes had dipped to 2,276 square feet and was expected to drop more in the coming months, as high interest rates stifled construction budgets. It was a reminder that living small is a topic that looms large.
So for the first installment of a new column called "Living Small" -- exploring the choices some people are making to live as simply, sustainably or compactly as possible, for ethical or aesthetic reasons, or both -- we visited the association's annual trade fair, the International Builders' Show, to see how builders, manufacturers and architects are responding to this struggle.
There is nothing small about IBS, as the show's name is unfortunately abbreviated. This latest edition, which ended on Feb. 2, was part of a multi-trade-fair extravaganza known as Design and Construction Week, with 1,800 exhibitors spread over a million square feet in the Las Vegas Convention Center.
Beyond the fairgrounds, undeveloped swaths of Las Vegas rolled out to distant, sugary mountains. Inside, vendors showed off their slab siding, permeable pavers, patio doors, crown molding, woolly insulation, architectural design software -- and every other imaginable thing used to build a home -- while remaining agnostic about size: Shingles are shingles, no matter how big your roof is.
But running through the three-day event was a conversation about constraint, as soaring interest rates and construction material costs, combined with a shortage of available land and skilled labor, have led to a precipitous decline in home building.
Robert Dietz, the chief economist of the National Association of Home Builders, estimated that single-family home starts, which fell 12 percent in 2022 (to 744,000 from 999,000), would drop an additional 26 percent in 2023 before reversing direction. In terms of multifamily housing, Mr. Dietz predicted a 28 percent decline (to 391,000 units in 2023 from 545,000 in 2022).
Based on his group's data, he reported a 1.5 million deficit in the number of new homes needed to make housing relatively affordable in the United States. "Just 42 percent of new and existing home sales are currently affordable to a typical household, which is a post-Great Recession low," stated a news release summarizing his analysis.
The show revealed that to make the most of hobbled opportunities, developers, architects and builders are trimming the size of primary residences. Or dropping accessory dwelling units into backyards (20 percent of remodelers have undertaken an ADU project, Mr. Dietz reported). Or investigating new technologies for building affordable housing, including three-dimensional printing or innovations in factory-built structures.
In a presentation called "Small Homes, Big Impact!," Brad Shapiro, an architect from Memphis, offered suggestions for making it less obvious that 10 to 15 percent had been shaved off a house that in more prosperous times would have been 2,400 square feet. His advice included familiar strategies like adding windows to let in sunshine and using pale interior paint. He also recommended doing away with hallways leading to second-floor bedrooms.
In another presentation, Donald Ruthroff, an architect from Northern California, addressed home trends and buyer preferences. Responding to the pandemic-era clamor for home offices -- a National Association of Home Builders survey revealed that 88 percent of home builders had seen an increased demand for them -- he said, "The days of offices with bookshelves behind the desk, and a couple of chairs, are over."
All you need now is a desk and a videoconferencing setup.
Mr. Ruthroff further noted that Americans are asking for kitchens that are "like Swiss Army knives" -- not bigger, but better equipped.
"Covid drove people to want larger homes, and low interest rates allowed them to buy them," said Rose Quint, the association's assistant vice president for survey research. In fact, she added, the only single-family residential construction category that has shown consistent growth since 2000 is that of properties with four or more bedrooms. These constituted 48 percent of new houses started in 2022, compared with 43 percent in 2019, 34 percent in the recessionary year of 2009 and 36 percent in 2000. (She attributed the increase mainly to adult children living with their parents.)
Yet when buyers were asked about compromises they would make to afford a home, Ms. Quint reported, the leading answer -- cited by 45 percent of respondents -- was living in a smaller house, followed by having more basic interiors (35 percent) and fewer outdoor amenities (34 percent).
A number of IBS presentations indirectly broached this theme of smaller living, with titles like "Delivering Detached Housing That Is Dense, Desirable and Affordable" and "Champagne Taste on a Beer Budget in a Tightening Market."
Exhibitors chimed in, too. Scott Philippe, the chief operating officer of a Canadian company called Beyond Sustainable, said he was helping to build a community of small, prefabricated houses in New Brunswick, Canada, that would be rented and eventually sold. (The structural system, called OSBlock, which consists of interlocking wood modules with attached insulation, was displayed a few yards away.)
"Young people don't want big mortgages or leases, especially after Covid," Mr. Philippe said. "They want to travel." (As a sweetener, he is developing housing in Acapulco, Mexico, where renters in the community will get to stay free one week a year.)
Viken Ohanesian, the founder and chief executive of BOSS Homes, near Los Angeles, presented the model of a tiny house: a 320-square-foot structure with paneled walls and a steel roof that three builders can assemble like Lego blocks in three days. (The company's name is an acronym for "built-on-site system.") Even upgraded with aluminum windows and doors and a mini-split heating-and-cooling system, the house sells for only a little more than $ 56,000, and that includes a paint job.
Mr. Ohanesian started his company to build average-size homes, but spun off a tiny-house division several years ago, when California passed legislation allowing ADUs. The customers he envisioned were people like his daughter, Lara Ohanesian, who, despite being BOSS's project manager, would not be able to afford a house in Southern California without the assistance of rental income from a backyard unit, he said.
And who doesn't love a little house? Visitors swarmed an outdoor area of the show where several factory-built examples had been erected. The most eye-catching was Casita, a 375-square-foot house that could be hauled to its site by a Tesla and unfolded like a flat-packed box. Manufactured by Boxabl, a Nevada-based company, Casita comes with plumbing, electricity and appliances, and costs $ 60,000. According to David Thompson, the company's social media manager, 160,000 names are on the waiting list, and Elon Musk uses one as a guesthouse at his ranch in Boca Chica, Texas.
Next to Casita was a Boxabl sibling created from two vertically stacked modules joined by a spiral staircase. The cost-cutting finishes of the houses lent a disposable feeling, like Ikea furniture on an enormous scale, but it was hard to argue with the price and speed of assembly. (Unfolding a module takes about an hour, Mr. Thompson said.)
On the other side of this exhibit was a 1,409-square-foot modular cottage from Impresa Building Systems, in Greenwood, S.C., with an overhanging roof supported by columns and front and back porches. (Impresa houses average about $ 200 to $ 250 a square foot for the building and all site work, according to the company's website.) This exercise in traditional charm had two bedrooms, one and a half bathrooms and a sleeping loft.
A couple of skeptics were overheard remarking that more living area could have been extracted from under the vaulted ceiling. They also muttered about the dangers the circular staircase posed to passing heads. It was a tough crowd.
The takeaway from the show was that 2023 will continue to be challenging for home builders and buyers. But with interest rates and construction costs dropping, if only incrementally, the outlook for 2024 is more optimistic. Mr. Dietz forecast a rebound in housing starts in the second half of 2023, culminating in a year-over-year increase of 24 percent next year.
In terms of square footage, Ms. Quint predicted, somewhat counterintuitively, that the average size of houses built this year will grow under economic stress and contract next year when conditions improve: "The move toward larger homes and more amenities in 2023 will reflect the preferences of those who can afford higher interest rates," she stated in a news release, "and in 2024, size will fall back as affordability improves with lower mortgage rates and more buyers re-enter the market."
But there was evidence at IBS that shrinking house sizes may be only a blip on a continuum of growth. It came from a concurrent exhibition at the Las Vegas Convention Center: the Kitchen and Bath Industry Show. There, you could find small appliances like 24-inch-wide-washing machines and four-burner stoves, but they were usually in the booths of European companies targeting dense urban markets like New York City.
Many Europeans also presented large appliances that the companies had no intention of selling back home. Ege Uysal, the sales manager of Vestel, a Turkish manufacturer, described the features considered nonnegotiable for a refrigerator for the United States: 18 cubic feet of volume, a water dispenser on the door and -- most novel to him -- an extra-wide condiment shelf to hold a gallon milk carton.
"Everything is bigger in America," he said.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here.
Photograph Above, a model of a 320-square-foot house manufactured by BOSS Homes for use as an accessory dwelling unit, one of the solutions to the affordable housing crisis presented at the recent International Builders' Show, in Las Vegas. Far left, the trade show, one of several that were part of Design and Construction Week in Las Vegas, attracted almost 70,000 building professionals to the city's convention center. Near left, Casita, a 375-square-foot house manufactured by Boxabl, a Nevada-based company, unfolds like a flat-packed box.; Above, each Casita unit comes with wiring, plumbing and appliances. The cost of the dwelling, excluding site setup, is $ 60,000.; Far left, a 1,400-square-foot modular cottage from Impresa Building Systems was part of an outdoor display of modest-size homes. Near left, the interior of a two-bedroom Casita is compact but feels surprisingly spacious. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKAYLA WHITMORE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page RE8.

Subject: Construction costs; Architecture; Houses; Interest rates; Affordable housing; Architects; Housing starts

Business indexing term: Subject: Construction costs Architecture Interest rates Affordable housing Architects Housing starts

Location: United States--US; Las Vegas Nevada

Company / organization: Name: National Association of Home Builders; NAICS: 813910

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/10/realestate/tiny-homes-housing-market-trends.html

Title: Little Houses on the Horizon:   [Real Estate Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: RE.8

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 12, 2023

column: Living Small

Section: RE

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2775347533

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/little-houses-on-horizon/docview/2775347533/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Shall I Compare Thee to a Chabot's Algorithm?: [Money and Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Metz, Cade

Publication info: Metz, Cade. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shall-i-compare-thee-chabots-algorithm/docview/2767531018/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Franz Broseph seemed like any other Diplomacy player to Claes de Graaff. The handle was a joke -- the Austrian emperor Franz Joseph I reborn as an online bro -- but that was the kind of humor that people who play Diplomacy tend to enjoy. The game is a classic, beloved by the likes of John F. Kennedy and Henry Kissinger, combining military strategy with political intrigue as it recreates the First World War: Players negotiate with allies, enemies and everyone in between as they plan how their armies will move across 20th-century Europe.
When Franz Broseph joined a 20-player online tournament at the end of August, he wooed other players, lying to them and ultimately betraying them. He finished in first place.
Mr. de Graaff, a chemist living in the Netherlands, finished fifth. He had spent nearly 10 years playing Diplomacy, both online and at face-to-face tournaments across the globe. He did not realize until it was revealed several weeks later that he had lost to a machine. Franz Broseph was a bot.
"I was flabbergasted," Mr. de Graaff, 36, said. "It seemed so genuine -- so lifelike. It could read my texts and converse with me and make plans that were mutually beneficial -- that would allow both of us to get ahead. It also lied to me and betrayed me, like top players frequently do."
Built by a team of artificial intelligence researchers from the tech giant Meta, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and other prominent universities, Franz Broseph is among the new wave of online chatbots that are rapidly moving machines into new territory.
When you chat with these bots, it can feel like chatting with another person. It can feel, in other words, like machines have passed a test that was supposed to prove their intelligence.
For more than 70 years, computer scientists have struggled to build technology that could pass the Turing test: the technological inflection point where we humans are no longer sure whether we are chatting with a machine or a person. The test is named for Alan Turing, the famed British mathematician, philosopher and wartime code breaker who proposed the test back in 1950. He believed it could show the world when machines had finally reached true intelligence.
The Turing test is a subjective measure. It depends on whether the people asking the questions feel convinced that they are talking to another person when in fact they are talking to a device.
But whoever is asking the questions, machines will soon leave this test in the rearview mirror.
Bots like Franz Broseph have already passed the test in particular situations, like negotiating Diplomacy moves or calling a restaurant for dinner reservations. ChatGPT, a bot released in November by OpenAI, a San Francisco lab, leaves people feeling as if they were chatting with another person, not a bot. The lab said more than a million people had used it. Because ChatGPT can write just about anything, including term papers, universities are worried it will make a mockery of class work. When some people talk to these bots, they even describe them as sentient or conscious, believing that machines have somehow developed an awareness of the world around them.
Privately, OpenAI has built a system, GPT-4, that is even more powerful than ChatGPT. It may even generate images as well as words.
And yet these bots are not sentient. They are not conscious. They are not intelligent -- at least not in the way that humans are intelligent. Even people building the technology acknowledge this point.
These bots are pretty good at certain kinds of conversation, but they cannot respond to the unexpected as well as most humans can. They sometimes spew nonsense and cannot correct their own mistakes. Although they can match or even exceed human performance in some ways, they cannot in others. Like similar systems that came before, they tend to complement skilled workers rather than replace them.
Part of the problem is that when a bot mimics conversation, it can seem smarter than it really is. When we see a flash of humanlike behavior in a pet or a machine, we tend to assume it behaves like us in other ways, too -- even when it does not. The Turing test does not consider that we humans are gullible by nature, that words can so easily mislead us into believing something that is not true.
"These systems can do a lot of useful things," said Ilya Sutskever, chief scientist at OpenAI and one of the most important A.I. researchers of the past decade, referring to the new wave of chatbots. "On the other hand, they are not there yet. People think they can do things they cannot."
As the latest technologies emerge from research labs, it is now obvious -- if it was not obvious before -- that scientists must rethink and reshape how they track the progress of artificial intelligence. The Turing test is not up to the task.
Time and time again, A.I. technologies have surpassed supposedly insurmountable tests, including mastery of chess (1997), "Jeopardy!" (2011), Go (2016) and poker (2019). Now it is surpassing another, and again this does not necessarily mean what we thought it would.
We -- the public -- need a new framework for understanding what A.I. can do, what it cannot, what it will do in the future and how it will change our lives, for better or for worse.
The Imitation Game
In 1950, Alan Turing published a paper called "Computing Machinery and Intelligence." Fifteen years after his ideas helped spawn the world's first computers, he proposed a way of determining whether these new machines could think. At the time, the scientific world was struggling to understand what a computer was. Was it a digital brain? Or was it something else? Turing offered a way of answering this question.
He called it the "imitation game."
It involved two lengthy conversations -- one with a machine and another with a human being. Both conversations would be conducted via text chat, so that the person on the other end would not immediately know which one he or she was talking to. If the person could not tell the difference between the two as the conversations progressed, then you could rightly say the machine could think.
"The question and answer method seems to be suitable for introducing almost any one of the fields of human endeavour that we wish to include," Turing wrote. The test could include everything from poetry to mathematics, he explained, laying out a hypothetical conversation:
Q: Please write me a sonnet on the subject of the Forth Bridge.
A: Count me out on this one. I never could write poetry.
Q: Add 34957 to 70764.
A: (Pause about 30 seconds and then give as answer) 105621.
Q: Do you play chess?
A: Yes.
Q: I have K at my K1, and no other pieces. You have only K at K6 and R at R1. It is your move. What do you play?
A: (After a pause of 15 seconds) R-R8 mate.
When Turing proposed the test, computers could not chat. Scientists communicated with these room-size machines by feeding mathematical and textual instructions into vacuum tubes via typewriters, magnetic tape and punched cards. But as the years passed and researchers created a new field they called artificial intelligence -- a concerted effort to build machines that could think at the level of a human -- many held up the imitation game as the ultimate goal.
"People were not building systems for fluent dialogue. That was just too hard," said Stuart Shieber, a Harvard computer scientist who specializes in computational linguistics, including the Turing test. "But it was an aspiration."
By the mid-1960s, machines could chat in small ways. And even then, they fooled people into believing they were more intelligent than they really were.
A researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Joseph Weizenbaum, built an automated psychotherapist called Eliza, which did little more than repeat what a user said in the form of a question. But some treated this bot as if it were a human therapist, unloading their most personal secrets and feelings.
Over the next several decades, chatbots improved at a snail's pace. The best that researchers could do was lay down a long list of rules defining how a bot should behave. And no matter how many rules they wrote, they were never enough. The scope of natural language was just too big.
In 2014, after nearly 60 years of A.I. research, three researchers in St. Petersburg, Russia, built a bot, called Eugene Goostman, that imitated a 13-year-old Ukrainian who had learned English as a second language. But claims from its creators -- and from the news media -- that it had passed the Turing test were greatly exaggerated.
When asked, "Which is bigger, a shoe box or Mount Everest?," this bot said: "I can't make a choice right now." When asked, "How many legs does a camel have?," it replied: "Something between 2 and 4. Maybe, three? :-)))"
Then, about three years later, researchers at places like Google and OpenAI began building a new kind of artificial intelligence.
Write me a sonnet
On a recent morning, I asked ChatGPT the same questions that Turing had laid out in his 1950 paper. It instantly generated a poem about the Forth Bridge:
Its red paint gleams in the morning sun
A sight to behold, for all to see
Its majesty and grandeur never done
Then it correctly added 34,957 and 70,764. It did not need 30 seconds to do so. When I laid out the end of a chess game as Turing did, it responded with typically clear, concise, confident prose. It seemed to understand the situation.
But it did not. It mistook the end of the game for the beginning. "I would move my rook to R2," it said. "It is generally a good idea to try to develop your pieces (move them out from their starting positions) as quickly as possible in chess."
ChatGPT is what researchers call a neural network, a mathematical system loosely modeled on the network of neurons in the brain. This is the same technology that translates between English and Spanish on services like Google Translate and identifies pedestrians as self-driving cars weave through city streets.
A neural network learns skills by analyzing data. By pinpointing patterns in thousands of photos of stop signs, for example, it can learn to recognize a stop sign.
Five years ago, Google, OpenAI and other A.I. labs started designing neural networks that analyzed enormous amounts of digital text, including books, news stories, Wikipedia articles and online chat logs. Researchers call them "large language models." Pinpointing billions of distinct patterns in the way people connect words, letters and symbols, these systems learned to generate their own text.
They can create tweets, blog posts, poems, even computer programs. They can carry on a conversation -- at least up to a point. And as they do, they can seamlessly combine far-flung concepts. You can ask them to rewrite Queen's pop operetta, "Bohemian Rhapsody," so that it rhapsodizes about the life of a postdoc academic researcher, and they will.
"They can extrapolate," said Oriol Vinyals, senior director of deep learning research at the London lab DeepMind, who has built groundbreaking systems that can juggle everything from language to three-dimensional video games. "They can combine concepts in ways you would never anticipate."
Researchers, businesses and other early adopters have been testing these systems for years. Initially, they were difficult to use. And they spat out as much nonsense as coherent language. But with ChatGPT, OpenAI has refined the technology.
As people tested an early version of the system, OpenAI asked them to rate its responses, specifying whether they were convincing or truthful or useful. Then, through a technique called reinforcement learning, the lab used these ratings to hone the system and more carefully define what it would and would not do.
The result is a chatbot geared toward answering individual questions -- the very thing that Turing envisioned. Google, Meta and other organizations have built bots that operate in similar ways.
The trouble is that while their language skills are shockingly impressive, the words and ideas are not always backed by what most people would call reason or common sense. The systems write recipes with no regard for how the food will taste. They make little distinction between fact and fiction. They suggest chess moves with complete confidence even when they do not understand the state of the game.
Because they are trained on data from across the internet, there are an infinite number of situations where they seem to get things right while actually getting them very wrong.
Dr. Sutskever of OpenAI compares these bots to the automated driving service that Tesla calls Full Self Driving. This experimental technology can drive itself on city streets. But you -- the human driver -- are required to keep your eyes on the road and take control of the car at any moment.
"It does everything. It turns and it stops and it sees all the pedestrians," he said. "And yet you have to intervene fairly frequently."
ChatGPT does question-and-answer, but it tends to break down when you take it in other directions. Franz Broseph can negotiate Diplomacy moves for a few minutes, but if each round of negotiations had been a little longer, Mr. De Graaff might well have realized it was a bot. And if Franz Broseph were dropped into any other situation -- like answering tech support calls -- it would be useless.
A New Test
Six months before releasing its chatbot, OpenAI unveiled a tool called DALL-E.
A nod to both "WALL-E," the 2008 animated movie about an autonomous robot, and Salvador Dalí, the Surrealist painter, this experimental technology lets you create digital images simply by describing what you want to see. This is also a neural network, built much like Franz Broseph or ChatGPT. The difference is that it learned from both images and text. Analyzing millions of digital images and the captions that described them, it learned to recognize the links between pictures and words.
This is what's known as a multimodal system. Google, OpenAI and other organizations are already using similar methods to build systems that can generate video of people and objects. Start-ups are building bots that can navigate software apps and websites on a user's behalf.
These are not systems that anyone can properly evaluate with the Turing test -- or any other simple method. Their end goal is not conversation.
Researchers at Google and DeepMind, which is owned by Google's parent company, are developing tests meant to evaluate chatbots and systems like DALL-E, to judge what they do well, where they lack reason and common sense, and more. One test shows videos to artificial intelligence systems and asks them to explain what has happened. After watching someone tinker with an electric shaver, for instance, the A.I. must explain why the shaver did not turn on.
These tests feel like academic exercises -- much like the Turing test. We need something that is more practical, that can really tell us what these systems do well and what they cannot, how they will replace human labor in the near term and how they will not.
We could also use a change in attitude. "We need a paradigm shift -- where we no longer judge intelligence by comparing machines to human behavior," said Oren Etzioni, professor emeritus at the University of Washington and founding chief executive of the Allen Institute for AI, a prominent lab in Seattle.
Turing's test judged whether a machine could imitate a human. This is how artificial intelligence is typically portrayed -- as the rise of machines that think like people. But the technologies under development today are very different from you and me. They cannot deal with concepts they have never seen before. And they cannot take ideas and explore them in the physical world.
ChatGPT made that clear. As more users experimented with it, they showed off its abilities and limitations. One Twitter user asked ChatGPT what letter came next in the sequence O T T F F S S, and it gave the correct answer (E). But it also told him the wrong reason it was correct, failing to realize that these are the first letters in the numbers 1 to 8.
At the same time, there are many ways these bots are superior to you and me. They do not get tired. They do not let emotion cloud what they are trying to do. They can instantly draw on far larger amounts of information. And they can generate text, images and other media at speeds and volumes we humans never could.
Their skills will also improve considerably in the coming years.
Researchers can rapidly hone these systems by feeding them more and more data. The most advanced systems, like ChatGPT, require months of training, but over those months, they can develop skills they did not exhibit in the past.
"We have found a set of techniques that scale effortlessly," said Raia Hadsell, senior director of research and robotics at DeepMind. "We have a simple, powerful approach that continues to get better and better."
The exponential improvement we have seen in these chatbots over the past few years will not last forever. The gains may soon level out. But even then, multimodal systems will continue to improve -- and master increasingly complex skills involving images, sounds and computer code. And computer scientists will combine these bots with systems that can do things they cannot. ChatGPT failed Turing's chess test. But we knew in 1997 that a computer could beat the best humans at chess. Plug ChatGPT into a chess program, and the hole is filled.
In the months and years to come, these bots will help you find information on the internet. They will explain concepts in ways you can understand. If you like, they will even write your tweets, blog posts and term papers.
They will tabulate your monthly expenses in your spreadsheets. They will visit real estate websites and find houses in your price range. They will produce online avatars that look and sound like humans. They will make mini-movies, complete with music and dialogue.
"This will be the next step up from Pixar -- superpersonalized movies that anyone can create really quickly," said Bryan McCann, former lead research scientist at Salesforce, who is exploring chatbots and other A.I. technologies at a start-up called You.com.
As ChatGPT and DALL-E have shown, this kind of thing will be shocking, fascinating and fun. It will also leave us wondering how it will change our lives. What happens to people who have spent their careers making movies? Will this technology flood the internet with images that seem real but are not? Will their mistakes lead us astray?
"All the President's Men," Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward's classic tale of uncovering Watergate, tells a story about a history paper that Mr. Woodward wrote as a freshman at Yale. After reading countless documents that described King Henry IV standing barefoot in the snow for days as he waited to beg forgiveness from Pope Gregory in 1077, Mr. Woodward included the anecdote in his paper. His professor gave the paper a failing grade, explaining that no human being could stand barefoot in the snow for so long without his feet freezing off.
"The divine right of kings did not extend to overturning the laws of nature and common sense," the professor said.
Drawing from endless documents about King Henry's visit to Canossa, ChatGPT might well make the same mistake. You must play the professor.
Certainly, these bots will change the world. But the onus is on you to be wary of what these systems say and do, to edit what they give you, to approach everything you see online with skepticism. Researchers know how to give these systems a wide range of skills, but they do not yet know how to give them reason or common sense or a sense of truth.
That still lies with you.
Photograph Benedict Cumberbatch as Alan Turing in the film "The Imitation Game." In 1950, Turing conceived a simple test to determine when machines had reached true intelligence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK ENGLISH/WEINSTEIN COMPANY); Turing, left, circa 1935. His test is a subjective measure: whether someone posing questions to a machine believes she is actually talking to another person. In the 1960s, Joseph Weizenbaum, right, a researcher at M.I.T., built a bot called Eliza that some people engaged with as if it were a therapist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARCHIVIO GBB, VIA ALAMY; CALVIN CAMPBELL/MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY) (BU6); In 2011, the "Jeopardy!" champions Ken Jennings, left, and Brad Rutter competed over three episodes against a room-size I.B.M. computer called Watson. The humans fought hard, but Watson won. "I, for one, welcome our new computer overlords," Mr. Jennings wrote on his video screen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU7) This article appeared in print on page BU1, BU6, BU7.

Subject: Tournaments & championships; Magnetic tape; Artificial intelligence; Diplomacy; Chatbots

Business indexing term: Subject: Artificial intelligence

Location: United States--US; Massachusetts

People: Turing, Alan

Company / organization: Name: Massachusetts Institute of Technology; NAICS: 611310; Name: OpenAI; NAICS: 541715

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/technology/chatbots-turing-test.html

Title: Shall I Compare Thee to a Chabot's Algorithm?:   [Money and Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: BU.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 22, 2023

Section: BU

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2767531018

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/shall-i-compare-thee-chabots-algorithm/docview/2767531018/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 22, 2023

Last updated: 2023-03-27

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

In Montecito, the Million-Dollar Views Still Come With Mudslide Risks

Author: Cowan, Jill; Knoll, Corina

Publication info: Cowan, Jill; Knoll, Corina. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/montecito-million-dollar-views-still-come-with/docview/2766145158/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MONTECITO, Calif. — Roads flooded, trees toppled, creeks raged and residents braced for the deadly catastrophe they knew could come.
It was Jan. 9, five years to the day after a torrent of mud, giant boulders and debris had crashed into Montecito, their coastal town near Santa Barbara, California. Back then, hundreds of homes were damaged or destroyed, and cars were crumpled like paper. Twenty-three people died.
This time, instead of attending a memorial on the anniversary, residents faced cascading rain that threatened to roil the earth once again. They found themselves fleeing under evacuation orders, with the trauma of the past on their heels.
When they were allowed to return the next day, it was with relief that no funerals needed to be planned.
Montecito can feel like a secret to those who discover it. Tucked into a steep slope, it offers grand views of sherbet-colored sunsets and a glittering sea. The serenity of the foothills provides refuge to a number of celebrities, including Oprah Winfrey, a longtime resident, and the more recent arrivals Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan.
The allure of Montecito, as with many places in California, has proved to also be its Achilles’ heel — where natural beauty means living on the edge of possible disaster. In December 2017, when the area was parched with drought, the immense Thomas wildfire marched through, its flames ravaging the vegetation and leaving large burn scars on the land. The following month, storms arrived, and the mountainsides came barreling down.
Residents of Montecito say they are more conscious of safety precautions now — stocking their homes with solar-powered radios, flashlights, a generator, cots to host people — and that they have a new awareness about storm drainage. But they refuse to live solely under the specter of natural disasters. It helps that recent additions to the area’s infrastructure proved successful last week.
“I don’t think anyone here was living in fear it could happen any day again — it wasn’t like that,” said Lizzy Fallows. “It was like a one-off thing, which is why people were spooked.”
Three extraordinary weeks of atmospheric rivers have unleashed flooding, mudslides, power outages and fallen trees across California. After enjoying a reprieve on Tuesday, the state is expecting one more dose of rain on Wednesday, followed by a dry spell that could stretch well into next week.
Fallows, 40, grew up in Montecito and, after living for a time in San Francisco, Australia and Tanzania, fulfilled a dream when she returned four years ago with her family.
Two days after the recent evacuations, Fallows drove around the area in her Tesla, showing her three daughters the Randall Road debris basin, an $18 million project completed last fall that filled up with flood-borne branches, rocks and debris while the water rushed from San Ysidro Creek to the ocean.
“I wanted to show them how the debris basin had done its job,” she said. “Not to scare them, but to show how nature is beautiful and powerful and meant to be respected. And we can coexist if we pay attention.”
Nearby, Aaron Briner, Montecito’s fire marshal, surveyed the creek and the Randall Road basin, which sits on land where several homes were destroyed in 2018.
“It’s a very odd feeling,” Briner said. “Just like there’s a scar there, there’s a scar, I think, within each one of us.”
Kim Cantin says she will never shake the memory of the moment a slurry of earth, water and debris barreled into her family’s cottage and swept her away. Dave, her husband, was found dead on the beach. And the body of her son, Jack, 17, was never fully recovered.
It is the survival of her daughter, Lauren — who was 14 when she was discovered screaming and trapped in mud — that Cantin has focused on since her world was divided in half.
The two moved to a place 10 minutes outside of town, but Cantin still owns the empty lot where dirt and a few trees show no hint of the house with the red brick patio that once stood among them.
“A lot of people have been wanting to buy it,” she said of the property. “I’m just not ready to let it go yet.”
Vacant lots among the multimillion-dollar houses illustrate the trauma that is entrenched in the area.
“For the most part, you see a dirt lot, somebody died,” said Abe Powell, director of the Montecito fire district. “Five years after, they still can’t wrap their heads around rebuilding there.”
Powell, 53, remains troubled by the unheeded pleas he made to residents whose bodies were later found in the debris, as well as whether he could have said something more convincing.
“I can’t forget those conversations,” he said. “A lot of us can’t.”
The boulders and trees in the Santa Ynez Mountains above Montecito loomed as a threat long before 2018. A 2020 report commissioned by local residents found that there had been 22 debris-related events that struck the community over the previous 200 years, and those events often were capable of sending boulders, logs and other debris well beyond the creek beds where storm runoff normally flows.
The scene for the 2018 disaster was set by the wildfire, which left behind an ashen surface that made the soil in the burn area less able to absorb water. When nearly 1 inch of rain fell in the space of five minutes, it touched off a destructive debris flow that outmatched the basins.
This year, after 20 inches of rain had already fallen over the past month, saturating the ground, Montecito was inundated with another foot of rain in a 30-hour period. Nearly all of the debris that the soaking brought down was captured by the area’s improved flood control system, according to Kevin Taylor, chief of the Montecito fire district. The improvements included expanded creek beds and basins and six new debris nets placed in canyons.
“I think we proved our concept,” Pat McElroy, a retired Santa Barbara fire chief, said Thursday after surveying how the steel ring nets his community group had pushed to install had held up through the storm.
The community’s feelings about evacuation have also changed. In 2018, public agencies performed more than 900 rescues of people trapped by flooding, about 100 of them by helicopter; this time around there were just 50 rescues.
Even as climate change widens the extremes between drought and flood, Montecito’s quaint yet rural landscape continues to lure the affluent, who do not balk at a listing for $19 million that offers “gently rolling grounds, ancient oaks.” Newcomers don’t have the same context for their surroundings that the longtime residents do, and houses have sprung up where previous ones were flattened.
Some survivors of the 2018 mudslide chose to change neighborhoods. Berkeley “Augie” Johnson, who has lived in Montecito for 25 years, saw his house demolished in 2018. He and his family ended up rebuilding about 1.5 miles away.
It’s a “less apocalyptic elevation,” Johnson said. “We rebuilt this house like a tank. It’s not going anywhere.”
The instinct to rebuild in the same place should be questioned, not just in Montecito but in all of California’s vulnerable areas, said Tom Corringham, a research economist with the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego who has studied the costs of natural disasters. The 2018 mudslide led to more than $420 million in insurance claims. “At what point do you stop fighting against Mother Nature and start moving people to safer areas?” he asked.
There are few things stronger, though, than the draw of home.
Carie Baker-Corey, 54, grew up in Montecito and said she enjoyed an idyllic childhood, an experience she wants to pass down for generations.
She had been a wardrobe stylist, but retired after the 2018 mudflow, when she lost her house and suffered a punctured lung, shattered bones and a brain injury. Two of her three daughters died in the mudslide.
Her surviving daughter, Summer, was 12 at the time, and remained in a coma for weeks. When she awoke, she learned that the body of her twin had been found a mile from the house.
Living in an adjacent community since then, Baker-Corey recently purchased a house back in Montecito, but in a different neighborhood than before. It is, she said, the one place where her grief is understood.
On each anniversary of the disaster, she said, her phone lights up with dozens of calls, texts and emails from those who would never forget such a date: Are you OK? What can I do? We love you.
“I don’t know any other place that would be this compassionate.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Daughters; Fires; Disasters; Landslides & mudslides; Houses; Drought; Trauma; Creeks & streams; Floods; Rain

Location: Santa Barbara California; California; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: United States; San Francisco (Calif); Tanzania; Australia; Santa Ynez Mountains (Calif); Scripps Institution Of Oceanography; Markle, Meghan; Tesla Motors Inc; Harry, Duke Of Sussex; Santa Barbara (Calif); University Of California, San Diego; Winfrey, Oprah; Berkeley (Calif); San Ysidro (Calif); University Of California; California; Montecito (Calif); Weather; Memory; Infrastructure (Public Works); Text Messaging; Rock And Stone; Seasons And Months; Oceans And Seas; Drought; Colleges And Universities; Rescues; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Area Planning And Renewal; Burns; Demolition; Disasters And Emergencies; Rain; Wildfires; Trees And Shrubs; Deaths (Fatalities); Landslides And Mudslides; Floods

Title: In Montecito, the Million-Dollar Views Still Come With Mudslide Risks

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 17, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-17 @ 16:31

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2766145158

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/montecito-million-dollar-views-still-come-with/docview/2766145158/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 17, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

A Texas City Shaping the Future of Trade: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/texas-city-shaping-future-trade/docview/2761831851/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The teeming warehouses carved into the desert surrounding Laredo, Texas, attest to an explosion of trade between the United States and Mexico.
On a recent morning, 55-gallon drums full of chemicals concocted in Ohio awaited trucks that would haul them across the Rio Grande, for use as raw materials at a paint factory in Mexico's industrial city of Monterrey. Destined northbound, brake pads manufactured in Mexico were headed to trucking firms as far away as South Dakota.
The more trade expands, the greater the opportunities for Laredo, a sprawling city of over 250,000 people that has long been the dominant land port on the meandering border between the United States and Mexico. Now, it is poised to become an even more vital component of the global economy. American companies sobered by the supply chain upheavals of the pandemic and alarmed by the animosity between the United States and China are reducing their dependence on factories across the Pacific by shifting production to Mexico.
Already, about $ 800 million worth of products as diverse as auto parts, clothing and avocados pass through Laredo every day. That reality is underscored by the parade of trucks rumbling through, waiting -- often for hours -- for their chance to cross a bridge spanning the Rio Grande, the murky river dividing Texas from Mexico.
By nearly every indication, more goods are on the way, presenting customs brokers, freight handlers and trucking companies with a monumental opportunity.
"Everyone's been growing around here -- 10, 20, 30 percent every year," said Pablo Garza, 30, head of strategic planning at Akzent Logistics, which owns two warehouses in Laredo and is nearly finished constructing a third. "It's a hectic town. It's astonishing the amount of movement that the city sees in terms of freight."
During an event at City Hall last month, local officials celebrated a milestone -- data revealing that $ 27 billion worth of freight moved through Laredo in October, exceeding the flow through the twin ocean ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, Calif., the primary gateway for American imports.
The Southern California ports grew exponentially during an era of globalization centered on China. Laredo appears primed to assume a similar role in the anticipated next phase of globalization, one centered on regional supply chains, with American companies forging greater reliance on Mexico and Central America.
But the exhilaration comes tinged with anxiety as businesses and city leaders fret that the existing infrastructure -- a pair of commercial bridges spanning the Rio Grande, traffic-choked roads and a hive of warehouses -- could be overwhelmed by an influx of cargo.
"We've got to get ahead of this tsunami that's coming," said Laredo's then-mayor, Pete Saenz. "We're behind now."
A huge build-out is underway. North of the city, an army of excavators tore at the pale soil, turning ranch land dotted by cactus into industrial parks, warehouses and trucking yards on both sides of Interstate 35, the ribbon of pavement linking Mexico to the midsection of the United States and Canada.
Two million square feet of warehouse space is under construction in Laredo, according to Prologis, a real estate investment firm. That amounts to a 5 percent increase in space.
But with warehouses more than 98 percent occupied, the new facilities may be quickly filled.
"There's definitely a space issue in Laredo," Mr. Garza said. "Warehouses are full. We say no to clients a lot."
Goods traded between the United States and Mexico in 2021 exceeded $ 660 billion, an increase of nearly one-fifth from the previous year, according to U.S. census data. Trade expanded at a similar clip last year, according to available data.
Adding to the urgency is the widely held assumption that this is merely the beginning of what could be decades of growth in trade between the two neighboring countries, as American retailers seek suppliers in the same hemisphere as their customers.
"A lot of companies are no longer willing to chase cheap labor at the cost of getting their goods to customers on time," said Gene Lindgren, president of the Laredo Economic Development Corporation, which courts investment for projects in the area. "China's so big that just taking a tiny little slice and putting it in Mexico is huge for Laredo."
Four years ago, the U.S. Department of Transportation projected steep increases in trucks passing through Laredo, with southbound border crossings alone reaching 9,800 by 2025. Traffic reached that level by the end of 2021, four years earlier than anticipated.
"All the projections are behind," said Glafiro Montemayor, president of Gemco, another Laredo-based freight handler. He noted that goods crossing the border had more than doubled since 2000 without the addition of major infrastructure.
"Laredo is full of trucks," he added. "How are you going to handle it?"
Mr. Montemayor is raising funding for a project presented as the answer to that question: a $ 360 million bridge crossing the Rio Grande south of Laredo. The customs process would be handled jointly by American and Mexican authorities, entailing only one inspection. That would allow trucks to complete the crossing within 30 minutes.
The Mexican government has already approved the project, Mr. Montemayor said, while the U.S. State Department is nearing the completion of its own review.
His plan is a linchpin to a logistics hub that could provide an alternative to excessive reliance on major ports like Los Angeles, the scene of torturous floating traffic jams during the worst months of the pandemic.
Nearly two-thirds of the containers reaching ocean ports on the West Coast of the United States are destined for the middle of the country and the East Coast -- regions reached more easily by rail and truck from Laredo, Mr. Montemayor said.
Already, some American companies importing goods from Asia are bypassing the docks in Southern California and shipping instead to Manzanillo, on Mexico's Pacific coast. From there, they move containers north to Laredo en route to destinations across North America.
Kansas City Southern, the giant railroad, picks up containers arriving from Asia at the port of Lázaro Cárdenas, in the Mexican state of Michoacán, and carries them north. The company recently broke ground on a $ 100 million project that will double the capacity of a rail bridge spanning the Rio Grande.
At the same time, Mexican authorities are pursuing their own plans to ease the flow of goods across the border.
At the City Hall event, Mayor Saenz appeared with officials from the Mexican state of Nuevo León, on the opposite bank of the Rio Grande. There, a young, development-minded governor, Samuel García, is promising to upgrade highways linking Monterrey to the border as part of an aggressive courtship of foreign investment.
The highway project is aimed at increasing the appeal of a now largely spurned Rio Grande crossing, the Colombia bridge, a 40-minute drive from the warehouses and distribution centers in Laredo. More than 80 percent of the cross-border truck traffic opts for the far closer World Trade bridge.
Given the typically horrendous congestion on the roads leading to the World Trade bridge, Nuevo León is betting that it can entice more traffic to the Colombia crossing by easing passage from that span to Monterrey.
Demand for the Colombia bridge appears destined to accelerate.
Tesla is expected to announce plans to locate a new electric vehicle plant within the Mexican state, shipping completed vehicles to the United States and Canada. Lego operates its largest factory in Nuevo León, using the Colombia bridge to ship finished products directly to warehouses in Texas.
In Laredo, business interests and local government officials accuse state and federal authorities of jeopardizing the opportunities for the region by withholding funds needed to expand the surrounding highway system.
They complain that the Texas Department of Transportation bases highway funding on population size -- a process that favors major cities like Dallas and Houston -- even though the traffic passing through Laredo supports jobs at retailers and warehouses across the state and beyond.
Over the decades, Laredo has grown in rings, each distinguished by its distance from the Rio Grande.
Smack against the river in the old downtown, the pastel shades of Mexico visible on the opposite shore, storefronts lie abandoned.
What businesses remain highlight desperation -- bail bonds agents, plasma collection centers offering cash for bodily fluid, pawnshops.
Border patrol officers sit in their vehicles on a bluff looking down on the thigh-deep water.
A mile away from the river, alongside railroad tracks, the first generation of warehouses sit idle, the sun gleaming off their siding.
Nine miles to the north, at the Killam industrial park, trucks hauling 53-foot trailers pull in and out of sleek, modern warehouses, carrying goods moving north and south.
Mr. Garza's family business occupies two of these structures. Its freight forwarding business is largely devoted to moving auto parts.
On a recent morning, orange plastic crates holding seals for car doors made in Alabama were arrayed on wooden pallets, en route to an assembly plant in Mexico.
Transmission parts produced in Illinois and headed for a factory in Monterrey were stacked in a pile under a laminated white card marked "Expedited."
"They will be out by the end of the day," Mr. Garza said. "'Urgent' is a very common word around here."
A forward-thinker by nature, Mr. Garza, whose only child is still a baby, confidently describes plans to have three more.
He brings the same state of mind to surveying the terrain four miles up the interstate, looking for an empty plot that his company can buy and turn into more warehouses.
"We need to buy land now and build later," he said.
Photograph Vacant storefronts in Laredo, Texas. A boom in U.S.-Mexico commerce is helping to turn the border city into an even more vital hub. Already, about $ 800 million worth of goods pass through it every day.; Two million square feet of warehouse space is said to be under construction in Laredo. Such facilities in the region are more than 98 percent occupied. (B1); The Laredo--Colombia Solidarity International Bridge, top left. Demand for the bridge, which spans the Rio Grande, is destined to increase. Loading avocado crates onto a truck in Tancítaro, Mexico, middle left. Goods traded between the U.S. and Mexico in 2021 exceeded $ 660 billion, up nearly one-fifth from the previous year. A scrap metal processing plant in Laredo, left. The recycled metal is reused in Mexico. Kansas City Southern, the giant railroad, recently broke ground on a $ 100 million project that doubles capacity on a bridge, top, that spans the Rio Grande, as does the The World Trade International Bridge, above. Over 80 percent of the region's cross-border truck traffic traverses the World Trade bridge, which is close to the warehouses and distribution centers in Laredo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARTER JOHNSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4-B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4, B5.

Subject: Ports; Pandemics; Roads & highways; Trucks; Transportation planning; Warehouses; Bridges; Globalization; Traffic congestion; Border patrol; Trucking industry; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Ports Warehouses Globalization Trucking industry Factories

Location: Mexico; Texas; United States--US; Canada; Southern California; China; Los Angeles California; Asia; Colombia

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/05/business/us-mexico-trade-laredo.html

Title: A Texas City Shaping the Future of Trade:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 9, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761831851

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/texas-city-shaping-future-trade/docview/2761831851/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 9, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How a Texas Border City Is Shaping the Future of Global Trade

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-texas-border-city-is-shaping-future-global/docview/2761785275/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LAREDO, Texas — The teeming warehouses carved into the desert surrounding Laredo attest to an explosion of trade between the United States and Mexico.
On a recent morning, 55-gallon drums full of chemicals concocted in Ohio awaited trucks that would haul them across the Rio Grande, for use as raw materials at a paint factory in Mexico’s industrial city of Monterrey. Destined northbound, brake pads manufactured in Mexico were headed to trucking firms as far away as South Dakota.
The more trade expands, the greater the opportunities for Laredo, a sprawling city of over 250,000 people that has long been the dominant land port on the meandering border between the United States and Mexico. Now, it is poised to become an even more vital component of the global economy. American companies sobered by the supply-chain upheavals of the pandemic and alarmed by the animosity between the United States and China are reducing their dependence on factories across the Pacific by shifting production to Mexico.
Already, about $800 million worth of products as diverse as auto parts, clothing and avocados pass through Laredo every day. That reality is underscored by the parade of trucks rumbling through, waiting — often for hours — for their chance to cross a bridge spanning the Rio Grande, the murky river dividing Texas from Mexico.
By nearly every indication, more goods are on the way, presenting customs brokers, freight handlers and trucking companies with a monumental opportunity.
“Everyone’s been growing around here — 10, 20, 30% every year,” said Pablo Garza, 30, head of strategic planning at Akzent Logistics, which owns two warehouses in Laredo and is nearly finished constructing a third. “It’s a hectic town. It’s astonishing the amount of movement that the city sees in terms of freight.”
During an event at City Hall last month, local officials celebrated a milestone — data revealing that $27 billion worth of freight moved through Laredo in October, exceeding the flow through the twin ocean ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, California, the primary gateway for American imports.
The Southern California ports grew exponentially during an era of globalization centered on China. Laredo appears primed to assume a similar role in the anticipated next phase of globalization, one centered on regional supply chains, with American companies forging greater reliance on Mexico and Central America.
But the exhilaration comes tinged with anxiety as businesses and city leaders fret that the existing infrastructure — a pair of commercial bridges spanning the Rio Grande, traffic-choked roads and a hive of warehouses — could be overwhelmed by an influx of cargo.
“We’ve got to get ahead of this tsunami that’s coming,” said Laredo’s then-mayor, Pete Saenz. “We’re behind now.”
A huge build-out is underway. North of the city, an army of excavators tore at the pale soil, turning ranch land dotted by cactus into industrial parks, warehouses and trucking yards on both sides of Interstate 35, the ribbon of pavement linking Mexico to the midsection of the United States and Canada.
Some 2 million square feet of warehouse space is under construction in Laredo, according to Prologis, a real estate investment firm. That amounts to a 5% increase in space.
But with warehouses more than 98% occupied, the new facilities may be quickly filled.
“There’s definitely a space issue in Laredo,” Garza said. “Warehouses are full. We say no to clients a lot.”
Goods traded between the United States and Mexico in 2021 exceeded $660 billion, an increase of nearly one-fifth from the previous year, according to U.S. census data. Trade expanded at a similar clip last year, according to available data.
Adding to the urgency is the widely held assumption that this is merely the beginning of what could be decades of growth in trade between the two neighboring countries, as American retailers seek suppliers in the same hemisphere as their customers.
“A lot of companies are no longer willing to chase cheap labor at the cost of getting their goods to customers on time,” said Gene Lindgren, president of the Laredo Economic Development Corp., which courts investment for projects in the area. “China’s so big that just taking a tiny little slice and putting it in Mexico is huge for Laredo.”
Four years ago, the U.S. Department of Transportation projected steep increases in trucks passing through Laredo, with southbound border crossings alone reaching 9,800 by 2025. Traffic reached that level by the end of 2021, four years earlier than anticipated.
“All the projections are behind,” said Glafiro Montemayor, president of Gemco, another Laredo-based freight handler. He noted that goods crossing the border had more than doubled since 2000 without the addition of major infrastructure.
“Laredo is full of trucks,” he added. “How are you going to handle it?”
Montemayor is raising funding for a project presented as the answer to that question: a $360 million bridge crossing the Rio Grande south of Laredo. The customs process would be handled jointly by American and Mexican authorities, entailing only one inspection. That would allow trucks to complete the crossing within 30 minutes.
The Mexican government has already approved the project, Montemayor said, while the U.S. State Department is nearing the completion of its own review.
His plan is a linchpin to a logistics hub that could provide an alternative to excessive reliance on major ports like Los Angeles, the scene of torturous floating traffic jams during the worst months of the pandemic.
Nearly two-thirds of the containers reaching ocean ports on the West Coast of the United States are destined for the middle of the country and the East Coast — regions reached more easily by rail and truck from Laredo, Montemayor said.
Already, some American companies importing goods from Asia are bypassing the docks in Southern California and shipping instead to Manzanillo, on Mexico’s Pacific coast. From there, they move containers north to Laredo en route to destinations across North America.
Kansas City Southern, the giant railroad, picks up containers arriving from Asia at the port of Lázaro Cárdenas, in the Mexican state of Michoacán, and carries them north. The company recently broke ground on a $100 million project that will double the capacity of a rail bridge spanning the Rio Grande.
At the same time, Mexican authorities are pursuing their own plans to ease the flow of goods across the border.
At the City Hall event, Saenz appeared with officials from the Mexican state of Nuevo León, on the opposite bank of the Rio Grande. There, a young, development-minded governor, Samuel García, is promising to upgrade highways linking Monterrey to the border as part of an aggressive courtship of foreign investment.
The highway project is aimed at increasing the appeal of a now largely spurned Rio Grande crossing, the Colombia bridge, a 40-minute drive from the warehouses and distribution centers in Laredo. More than 80% of the cross-border truck traffic opts for the far closer World Trade bridge.
Given the typically horrendous congestion on the roads leading to the World Trade bridge, Nuevo León is betting that it can entice more traffic to the Colombia crossing by easing passage from that span to Monterrey.
Demand for the Colombia bridge appears destined to accelerate.
Tesla is expected to announce plans to locate a new electric vehicle plant within the Mexican state, shipping completed vehicles to the United States and Canada. Lego operates its largest factory in Nuevo León, using the Colombia bridge to ship finished products directly to warehouses in Texas.
In Laredo, business interests and local government officials accuse state and federal authorities of jeopardizing the opportunities for the region by withholding funds needed to expand the surrounding highway system.
They complain that the Texas Department of Transportation bases highway funding on population size — a process that favors major cities like Dallas and Houston — even though the traffic passing through Laredo supports jobs at retailers and warehouses across the state and beyond.
Over the decades, Laredo has grown in rings, each distinguished by its distance from the Rio Grande.
Smack against the river in the old downtown, the pastel shades of Mexico visible on the opposite shore, storefronts lie abandoned.
What businesses remain highlight desperation — bail bonds agents, plasma collection centers offering cash for bodily fluid, pawnshops.
Border Patrol officers sit in their vehicles on a bluff looking down on the thigh-deep water.
A mile away from the river, alongside railroad tracks, the first generation of warehouses sit idle, the sun gleaming off their siding.
Nine miles to the north, at the Killam industrial park, trucks hauling 53-foot trailers pull in and out of sleek, modern warehouses, carrying goods moving north and south.
Garza’s family business occupies two of these structures. Its freight forwarding business is largely devoted to moving auto parts.
On a recent morning, orange plastic crates holding seals for car doors made in Alabama were arrayed on wooden pallets, en route to an assembly plant in Mexico.
Transmission parts produced in Illinois and headed for a factory in Monterrey were stacked in a pile under a laminated white card marked “Expedited.”
“They will be out by the end of the day,” Garza said. “‘Urgent’ is a very common word around here.”
A forward-thinker by nature, Garza, whose only child is still a baby, confidently describes plans to have three more.
He brings the same state of mind to surveying the terrain 4 miles up the interstate, looking for an empty plot that his company can buy and turn into more warehouses.
“We need to buy land now and build later,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Ports; Pandemics; Trucks; Roads & highways; Transportation planning; Warehouses; Bridges; Globalization; Border patrol; Traffic congestion; Trucking industry; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Ports Warehouses Globalization Trucking industry Factories

Location: Mexico; Texas; United States--US; Canada; Southern California; China; Los Angeles California; Asia; Colombia

Identifier / keyword: Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Houston (Tex); Kansas; Alabama; Goodman, Peter S; South Dakota; Illinois; Ohio; Central America; North America; Prologis Inc; Interstate 35; Kansas City Southern; Long Beach (Calif); Saenz, Pedro I Jr; Canada; Los Angeles (Calif); State Department; China; Border Patrol (Us); Monterrey (Mexico); Nuevo Leon (Mexico); Dallas (Tex); California; Rio Grande River; Texas; Tesla Motors Inc; Transportation Department (Us); United States; Mexico; Laredo (Tex); Census; Infrastructure (Public Works); Ships And Shipping; United States Economy; Relocation Of Business; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Population; State Legislatures; Blood Donation; Corporations; Urban Areas; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Supply Chain; Roads And Traffic; Real Estate (Commercial); Freight (Cargo); Politics And Government; Bridges And Tunnels; Trucks And Trucking; Factories And Manufacturing; Warehouses; International Relations

Title: How a Texas Border City Is Shaping the Future of Global Trade

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 8, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-08 @ 18:38

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2761785275

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-texas-border-city-is-shaping-future-global/docview/2761785275/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 8, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-09

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How a Texas Border City Is Shaping the Future of Global Trade

Author: Goodman, Peter S

Publication info: Goodman, Peter S. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-texas-border-city-is-shaping-future-global/docview/2760866629/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
LAREDO, Texas — The teeming warehouses carved into the desert surrounding Laredo attest to an explosion of trade between the United States and Mexico.
On a recent morning, 55-gallon drums full of chemicals concocted in Ohio awaited trucks that would haul them across the Rio Grande, for use as raw materials at a paint factory in Mexico’s industrial city of Monterrey. Destined northbound, brake pads manufactured in Mexico were headed to trucking firms as far away as South Dakota.
The more trade expands, the greater the opportunities for Laredo, a sprawling city of over 250,000 people that has long been the dominant land port on the meandering border between the United States and Mexico. Now, it is poised to become an even more vital component of the global economy. American companies sobered by the supply-chain upheavals of the pandemic and alarmed by the animosity between the United States and China are reducing their dependence on factories across the Pacific by shifting production to Mexico.
Already, about $800 million worth of products, from auto parts to clothing to avocados, pass through Laredo every day. That reality is underscored by the parade of trucks rumbling through, waiting — often for hours — for their chance to cross a bridge spanning the Rio Grande, the murky river dividing Texas from Mexico.
By nearly every indication, more goods are on the way, presenting customs brokers, freight handlers and trucking companies with a monumental opportunity.
“Everyone’s been growing around here — 10, 20, 30% every year,” said Pablo Garza, 30, head of strategic planning at Akzent Logistics, which owns two warehouses in Laredo and is nearly finished constructing a third. “It’s a hectic town. It’s astonishing the amount of movement that the city sees in terms of freight.”
During an event at City Hall last month, local officials celebrated a milestone — data revealing that $27 billion worth of freight moved through Laredo in October, exceeding the flow through the twin ocean ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, California, the primary gateway for American imports.
The Southern California ports grew exponentially during an era of globalization centered on China. Laredo appears primed to assume a similar role in the anticipated next phase of globalization, one centered on regional supply chains, with American companies forging greater reliance on Mexico and Central America.
But the exhilaration comes tinged with anxiety as businesses and city leaders fret that the existing infrastructure — a pair of commercial bridges spanning the Rio Grande, traffic-choked roads and a hive of warehouses — could be overwhelmed by an influx of cargo.
“We’ve got to get ahead of this tsunami that’s coming,” said Laredo’s then-mayor, Pete Saenz. “We’re behind now.”
A huge build-out is underway. North of the city, an army of excavators tore at the pale soil, turning ranch land dotted by cactus into industrial parks, warehouses and trucking yards on both sides of Interstate 35, the ribbon of pavement linking Mexico to the midsection of the United States and Canada.
Some 2 million square feet of warehouse space is under construction in Laredo, according to Prologis, a real estate investment firm. That amounts to a 5% increase in space.
But with warehouses more than 98% occupied, the new facilities may be quickly filled.
“There’s definitely a space issue in Laredo,” Garza said. “Warehouses are full. We say no to clients a lot.”
Goods traded between the United States and Mexico in 2021 exceeded $660 billion, an increase of nearly one-fifth from the previous year, according to U.S. census data. Trade expanded at a similar clip last year, according to available data.
Adding to the urgency is the widely held assumption that this is merely the beginning of what could be decades of growth in trade between the two neighboring countries, as American retailers seek suppliers in the same hemisphere as their customers.
“A lot of companies are no longer willing to chase cheap labor at the cost of getting their goods to customers on time,” said Gene Lindgren, president of the Laredo Economic Development Corp., which courts investment for projects in the area. “China’s so big that just taking a tiny little slice and putting it in Mexico is huge for Laredo.”
Four years ago, the U.S. Department of Transportation projected steep increases in trucks passing through Laredo, with southbound border crossings alone reaching 9,800 by 2025. Traffic reached that level by the end of 2021, four years earlier than anticipated.
“All the projections are behind,” said Glafiro Montemayor, president of Gemco, another Laredo-based freight handler. He noted that goods crossing the border had more than doubled since 2000 without the addition of major infrastructure.
“Laredo is full of trucks,” he added. “How are you going to handle it?”
Montemayor is raising funding for a project presented as the answer to that question: a $360 million bridge crossing the Rio Grande south of Laredo. The customs process would be handled jointly by American and Mexican authorities, entailing only one inspection. That would allow trucks to complete the crossing within 30 minutes.
The Mexican government has already approved the project, Montemayor said, while the U.S. State Department is nearing the completion of its own review.
His plan is a linchpin to a logistics hub that could provide an alternative to excessive reliance on major ports like Los Angeles, the scene of torturous floating traffic jams during the worst months of the pandemic.
Nearly two-thirds of the containers reaching ocean ports on the West Coast of the United States are destined for the middle of the country and the East Coast — regions reached more easily by rail and truck from Laredo, Montemayor said.
Already, some American companies importing goods from Asia are bypassing the docks in Southern California and shipping instead to Manzanillo, on Mexico’s Pacific coast. From there, they move containers north to Laredo en route to destinations across North America.
Kansas City Southern, the giant railroad, picks up containers arriving from Asia at the port of Lázaro Cárdenas, in the Mexican state of Michoacán, and carries them north. The company recently broke ground on a $100 million project that doubles capacity on a rail bridge spanning the Rio Grande.
At the same time, Mexican authorities are pursuing their own plans to ease the flow of goods across the border.
At the City Hall event, Saenz appeared with officials from the Mexican state of Nuevo León, on the opposite bank of the Rio Grande. There, a young, development-minded governor, Samuel García, is promising to upgrade highways linking Monterrey to the border as part of an aggressive courtship of foreign investment.
The highway project is aimed at increasing the appeal of a now largely spurned Rio Grande crossing, the Colombia bridge, a 40-minute drive from the warehouses and distribution centers in Laredo. More than 80% of the cross-border truck traffic opts for the far closer World Trade bridge.
Given the typically horrendous congestion on the roads leading to the World Trade bridge, Nuevo León is betting that it can entice more traffic to the Colombia crossing by easing passage from that span to Monterrey.
Demand for the Colombia bridge appears destined to accelerate.
Tesla is expected to announce plans to locate a new electric vehicle plant within the Mexican state, shipping completed vehicles to the United States and Canada. Lego operates its largest factory in Nuevo León, using the Colombia bridge to ship finished products directly to warehouses in Texas.
In Laredo, business interests and local government officials accuse state and federal authorities of jeopardizing the opportunities for the region by withholding funds needed to expand the surrounding highway system.
They complain that the Texas Department of Transportation bases highway funding on population size — a process that favors major cities like Dallas and Houston — even though the traffic passing through Laredo supports jobs at retailers and warehouses across the state and beyond.
Over the decades, Laredo has grown in rings, each distinguished by its distance from the Rio Grande.
Smack against the river in the old downtown, the pastel shades of Mexico visible on the opposite shore, storefronts lie abandoned.
What businesses remain highlight desperation — bail bonds agents, plasma collection centers offering cash for bodily fluid, pawnshops.
Border Patrol officers sit in their vehicles on a bluff looking down on the thigh-deep water.
A mile away from the river, alongside railroad tracks, the first generation of warehouses sit idle, the sun gleaming off their siding.
Nine miles to the north, at the Killam industrial park, trucks hauling 53-foot trailers pull in and out of sleek, modern warehouses, carrying goods moving north and south.
Garza’s family business occupies two of these structures. Its freight forwarding business is largely devoted to moving auto parts.
On a recent morning, orange plastic crates holding seals for car doors made in Alabama were arrayed on wooden pallets, en route to an assembly plant in Mexico.
Transmission parts produced in Illinois and headed for a factory in Monterrey were stacked in a pile under a laminated white card marked “Expedited.”
“They will be out by the end of the day,” Garza said. “‘Urgent’ is a very common word around here.”
A forward-thinker by nature, Garza, whose only child is still a baby, confidently describes plans to have three more.
He brings the same state of mind to surveying the terrain 4 miles up the interstate, looking for an empty plot that his company can buy and turn into more warehouses.
“We need to buy land now and build later,” he said. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Ports; Pandemics; Roads & highways; Trucks; Transportation planning; Warehouses; Bridges; Globalization; Traffic congestion; Border patrol; Trucking industry; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Ports Warehouses Globalization Trucking industry Factories

Location: Mexico; Texas; United States--US; Canada; Southern California; China; Los Angeles California; Asia; Colombia

Identifier / keyword: Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; Houston (Tex); Kansas; Alabama; Goodman, Peter S; South Dakota; Illinois; Ohio; Central America; North America; Prologis Inc; Interstate 35; Kansas City Southern; Long Beach (Calif); Saenz, Pedro I Jr; Canada; Los Angeles (Calif); State Department; China; Border Patrol (Us); Monterrey (Mexico); Nuevo Leon (Mexico); Dallas (Tex); California; Rio Grande River; Texas; Tesla Motors Inc; Transportation Department (Us); United States; Mexico; Laredo (Tex); Census; Infrastructure (Public Works); Ships And Shipping; United States Economy; Relocation Of Business; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Population; State Legislatures; Blood Donation; Corporations; Urban Areas; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Supply Chain; Roads And Traffic; Real Estate (Commercial); Freight (Cargo); Politics And Government; Bridges And Tunnels; Trucks And Trucking; Factories And Manufacturing; Warehouses; International Relations

Title: How a Texas Border City Is Shaping the Future of Global Trade

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 5, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-05 @ 17:52

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2760866629

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-texas-border-city-is-shaping-future-global/docview/2760866629/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 5, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Why China’s Economy Faces a Perilous Road to Recovery

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-china-s-economy-faces-perilous-road-recovery/docview/2759971970/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Three weeks after Xi Jinping, China’s top leader, tried to reinvigorate China’s stalled economy by abruptly abandoning his stringent pandemic restrictions, he struck an upbeat note in his annual New Year’s Eve address. “China’s economy has strong resilience, great potential and vitality,” he said.
But that optimism is hard to find in downtown Guangzhou, the commercial hub of southern China. Nearly three years of “zero-COVID” measures have crushed businesses. Streets are lined with shuttered stores and workshops. Walls are plastered not with “help wanted” signs, but with notices from entrepreneurs putting their businesses up for sale. Roads and alleys once packed with migrant workers are now mostly empty.
China’s reversal of its COVID restrictions in early December was meant to help places like Guangzhou. But the chaotic approach has contributed to a tsunami of infections that has swept across the nation, overwhelming hospitals and funeral parlors. In many industries, truck drivers and other workers have quickly fallen ill, temporarily stretching staff and slowing operations.
Now, faced with an unpredictable — and uncontrolled — epidemic and financial uncertainty, people and companies are spending cautiously, suggesting that the road to recovery will be uneven and painful.
China is also confronting broader challenges beyond its borders. The global economy is slowing, dragged down by high inflation, an energy crisis and geopolitical turmoil. As American and European shoppers tighten their budgets, China increasingly faces a double blow of slumping demand both at home and abroad.
Weak spending is further depressing the already razor-thin or nonexistent profit margins of many of the small private businesses that power China’s economy.
In Guangzhou, Tony Tang, the owner of a fifth-floor workshop that makes women’s clothing, said his sales had plunged by two-thirds in the past year. Competition among small factories in China and overseas is fierce, pushing down the wholesale price he can charge for a woman’s jacket with no brand name from $14 to $11.30 apiece.
Tang’s workforce has shrunk from 30 to 10, but there is no shortage of labor. When he needed a worker to help sew an order of halter tops, he went out on a street corner with a handmade cardboard sign and hired one within several minutes, for one-sixth less than he paid about a year ago.
The problem, Tang said, is a lack of orders. His workshop has “a lot of workers, but we don’t have work to do,” he said.
China’s factory activity contracted further in December as rapidly spreading infections grounded workers, snarled deliveries and dampened demand, according to a survey of manufacturers that the government released on Saturday. For service industries like restaurants, the same survey found, business was almost as bad as in early 2020, during the nearly nationwide lockdown that followed the first COVID outbreak in the city of Wuhan. Eateries and other businesses closed last month as customers stayed home to avoid infection or because they were sick.
“The epidemic has had a great impact on the production and demand of enterprises, the attendance of personnel, and logistics and distribution,” the National Bureau of Statistics said in a statement that accompanied its release of the survey data.
Manufacturing had already been in decline in November, when many cities and regions in China imposed lockdowns on residents in a futile bid to contain outbreaks. Car dealerships are crammed with unsold cars. Stores have little need to order more for their shelves when they are already full of unsold merchandise.
Nio, an electric car manufacturer in east-central China’s Anhui province, said that COVID outbreaks had affected its supply chain and reduced its car deliveries in December. Tesla suspended the production of cars at its factory in Shanghai for the last week of December, a move that Yale Zhang, managing director of Automotive Foresight, a consultancy in Shanghai, saw as a sign of flagging sales in China and elsewhere, partly because other automakers are introducing more electric cars.
But even as many cities and provinces are in the throes of deadly outbreaks that have silenced once-busy streets, in other places, there are early signs that economic activity is resuming. In a few cities in northern China like Beijing, which saw widespread outbreaks that have since peaked, people have been going out again in recent days.
The lifting of quarantine rules has helped drive sales of airline tickets ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday later this month. The removal of onerous COVID restrictions like daily PCR testing on people and imported goods has saved time and money for companies and workers.
Xu Zeqiang, a truck driver in Yangjiang, a city in southeastern China that is a hub of knife and scissors production, said that he and his driving partner could now complete a round trip from Yangjiang to the ports at Shenzhen, 200 miles away, in a day, instead of two or three days.
“In the past, we could be stopped for PCR test results and health code checks — now, it’s not required anymore, you can come and leave any time,” he said.
Many European manufacturers in China have been forced to operate with about half their usual staff for two to three weeks, affecting output somewhat, said Klaus Zenkel, the chair of the chamber’s South China chapter. As a precaution against lockdowns, many companies had accumulated spare parts in warehouses before the COVID wave and have relied on those to keep running.
But to save on costs, a few small suppliers of specific components have stopped operations early for the Lunar New Year holiday, which starts Jan. 21. “Everyone managed a way to continue somehow, to keep the damage at a minimum,” Zenkel said.
The damage that “zero-COVID” inflicted on China’s once-unbeatable attractiveness as a manufacturing hub could be hard to repair.
Lockdowns and closed borders slowed or disrupted deliveries of goods and prevented many companies from sending buyers to factories. Some global retailers, seeing risk in overreliance on China, have turned instead to other countries for supplies. Walmart, for example, plans to ramp up imports from India to $10 billion a year by 2027.
Even Chinese exporters are trying to diversify.
In Yangjiang, Velong Enterprises, a Chinese manufacturer of knives, grilling thermometers and other kitchenware for Walmart, Ikea, Target, Carrefour and other retailers, is expanding its operations in Cambodia, Vietnam and India. It has shrunk its workforce in Yangjiang from 1,700 to 1,200 through attrition and is considering potential factory sites from Mexico to Turkey, said Jacob Rothman, a co-founder and co-CEO.
Companies like Velong find some savings when they venture out. The company pays workers in Cambodia half as much as its workers in Yangjiang.
But China’s strengths in industrial prowess and labor, even in the midst of a raging epidemic, are hard to beat.
One-fifth of Velong’s remaining factory workers in China are now out sick. But the company has been able to avoid missing deliveries by hiring temporary workers from among the large pool of workers in Yangjiang with knife-making experience, said Iven Chen, the company’s other co-founder and co-CEO.
“Our employees can be trained in five to eight days, and the skilled ones need less than one day,” said Ye Yuanqiang, a factory production manager at Velong. “I have worked in Cambodia, and sometimes I can’t train them well in two months.”
The pressure on exporters has only intensified in recent months. China’s exports fell in November compared with a year earlier, led by a 25% plunge in exports to the United States. Households in the West had spent heavily on exercise equipment and other manufactured goods from China during the first two years of the pandemic, but are now more budget-conscious as prices rise.
The Communist Party has pledged to spur domestic demand to revive growth. But convincing people to spend after three years of stop-start activity and punishing lockdowns will be tough. Many Chinese workers are now looking for ways to rebuild their savings, even as the Lunar New Year holiday approaches, a time when families used to splurge.
“The overall wages are quite low, you can’t make much money,” said Gong Shuguang, a garment worker in Guangzhou who plans to stay in the city for the holiday instead of returning to his hometown in Sichuan province for a family reunion. He lost two months’ wages during a COVID lockdown in the autumn.
“I want to find more work to do,” he said late last month. “I have worked here for seven or eight years and this year is the worst.” This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Workers; Exports; Workshops; Electric vehicles; Pandemics; Manufacturers; New year; Sales; Manufacturing; Cities; Knives; COVID-19; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Workers Exports Workshops Manufacturers Sales Manufacturing Factories

Location: Cambodia; New York; United States--US; India; China

Company / organization: Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 454110, 455110, 455211

Identifier / keyword: Business; Bradsher, Keith; Shenzhen (China); Ikea; Mexico; United States; Vietnam; Carrefour Sa; Sichuan Province (China); Communist Party Of Vietnam; Xi Jinping; Nio Ltd; Wuhan (China); Communist Party Of India (Marxist); National Bureau Of Statistics (China); Anhui (China); India; Shanghai (China); Europe; New York Times; Walmart Stores Inc; Cambodia; Tesla Motors Inc; Guangzhou (China); China; Hiring And Promotion; Supply Chain; Trademarks And Trade Names; Quarantines; Shortages; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Americans Abroad; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures; United States Economy; Textiles; Knives; Real Estate (Commercial); Finances; Advertising And Marketing; Appointments And Executive Changes; Traffic Accidents And Safety; Coronavirus Risks And Safety Concerns; United States International Relations; New Year; Delivery Services; Economic Conditions And Trends; Executive Compensation; Shopping And Retail; Fashion And Apparel; Politics And Government; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Automobiles; International Trade And World Market; Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Labor And Jobs; Polls And Public Opinion; Shutdowns (Institutional); Wages An d Salaries; International Relations; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Lunar New Year

Title: Why China’s Economy Faces a Perilous Road to Recovery

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 2, 2023

Dateline: 2023-01-02 @ 18:33

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2759971970

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/why-china-s-economy-faces-perilous-road-recovery/docview/2759971970/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 2, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

71 of Our Favorite Facts From 2022: [Metropolitan Desk]

Author: Times Insider; Yoon, Joohee

Publication info: Times Insider; Yoon, Joohee. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/71-our-favorite-facts-2022/docview/2759760569/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: 71 of Our Favorite Facts of 2022
January
1. The "Star Trek" hand gesture for "live long and prosper" is derived from part of a Hebrew blessing that Leonard Nimoy first glimpsed at an Orthodox Jewish synagogue in Boston as a boy.
To Boldly Explore the Jewish Roots of 'Star Trek'
2. In 1893, when the author Sir Arthur Conan Doyle temporarily killed off his iconic character, Sherlock Holmes, in an issue of The Strand Magazine, some 20,000 readers were so upset that they canceled their subscriptions.
A Sherlock Holmes Mystery at the Grolier Club
3. Some of the most recognizable and potent odors, like hydrogen sulfide, can be sensed at the tiniest concentrations, like one part per billion.
Sometimes, Life Stinks. So He Invented the Nasal Ranger.
4. Studies have shown that resisting arrest charges are filed disproportionately against Black New Yorkers and that a small percentage of officers account for many of the cases.
Bragg's Policy Shift Causes Furor, Though Few Cases Would Be Affected
5. Lusia Harris entered the Basketball Hall of Fame as the first Black woman and the first female college player ever to be enshrined there. She was also the first woman to be officially drafted by an N.B.A. team.

Lusia Harris, 'Queen of Basketball,' Dies at 66
6. The Jane Collective was a disparate, rotating group of women who ensured safe abortions for thousands of women in Chicago between 1968 and 1973.
At Sundance, Two Films Look at Abortion and the Jane Collective
7. In the 1950s, it took an average of 35 years for a word, once coined, to qualify for entry in the Merriam-Webster dictionary. Today, it is just 11 -- or fewer.
'Jeuje,' 'Zhoosh,' 'Zhuzh': A Word of Many Spellings, and Meanings
February
8. The National Cancer Institute estimates that nearly 40 percent of men and women will be diagnosed with some type of cancer at some point during their lifetimes.
Biden Presents Ambitious Plan to Cut Cancer Death Rate in Half

9. Until the wire whisk was popularized in the 19th century, the vigorous mixing required to make meringue was often accomplished with birch branches, knives or bundles of straw.
The Magic of Meringues

10. Despite being a popular mainstay of American life, the U.S. Postal Service regularly fails to turn a profit, with 2020 marking the 14th consecutive year it incurred a net annual loss.
House Passes Bill to Shore Up Postal Service, Working to Avert Insolvency

11. New York City recycles less than 20 percent of the 3.1 million tons of garbage that its residents produce each year, a number well below that of other major cities, like Seattle and San Francisco, which have mandatory compost separation.
New York Was Set to Expand Composting. Now It's on the Chopping Block.

12. About 56,000 romance scams -- online schemes that involve feigning romantic interest to gain a victim's trust -- were reported to the Federal Trade Commission in 2021, according to agency data. Those who paid with cryptocurrency lost about $ 139 million.
Crypto Scammers' New Target: Dating Apps

March
13. Historians have said that Rio de Janeiro's Carnival celebration in 1919, after the Spanish flu ravaged much of the world, led to many of today's Carnival hallmarks, including the occasional kissing of a stranger.
In Glitter and Leotards, They Took a Stand: Carnival Must Go On
14. Over the past decade, California has added a little over three times as many people as housing units, driving its median home price over $ 800,000, which is more than twice the national figure.

Legislators Find Way to Let U.C. Berkeley Increase Its Enrollment

15. Most office building thermostats follow a model developed in the 1960s that takes into account, among other factors, the resting metabolic rate of a 40-year-old man weighing 154 pounds.
A Two-Year, 50-Million-Person Experiment in Changing How We Work

16. Upon receiving the Academy Award for best supporting actress in 1962, Rita Moreno delivered one of the shortest acceptance speeches in Oscars history: "I can't believe it! Good Lord! I leave you with that."
Oscars Rewind: When Rita Moreno Made History and Thanked No One

17. If stars in the night sky are sparkling, it's a sign of atmospheric turbulence.
How to Spot Asteroids
18. The Clock of the Long Now, a huge mechanical clock being constructed inside a 6,000-foot mountain in southern Texas, is designed to keep time without human intervention for 10,000 years.
What the Silicon Valley Prophet Sees on the Horizon
19. In the history of American prisons, no one has been held in solitary confinement longer than three Black men, known as the Angola Three, who spent over four decades in solitary at Angola penitentiary in Louisiana.
In the Face of Black Pain, Elizabeth Alexander Turns to Art
April
20. Augusta National Golf Club began admitting female members in 2012.
For a Few Days at Augusta National, the Spotlight Shines on the Women

21. The TRAPPIST-1 solar system, which is 40 light-years from Earth, has four planets that are within the habitable zone -- the region around a star where liquid water could exist.
Imagine Another World. Now Imagine 5,000 More.

22. Every year, California farmers produce more than three billion pounds of almonds, or about 80 percent of the world's supply.
How America's Farmers Got Cut Out of the Supply Chain

23. Most historical sources say Billy the Kid, the 19th-century gunslinger, killed anywhere from nine to 21 people, shooting at least one in the back.
In This 'Billy the Kid,' the Wounds Are Those You Cannot See

24. South Korea counts people's ages three ways, often adding a year or two to the international standard.
Millions of South Koreans Could Soon Get Younger (on Paper)

May
25. A study of the frequency of automobile fires in 2021 found that hybrid vehicles had the most fires per 100,000 vehicles: 3,475. Fully electric vehicles had the fewest: 25 per 100,000.
Hurdle to Broad Adoption of E.V.s: The Misperception They're Unsafe
26. The musician Bob Dylan wrote 17 known drafts of his cryptic 1983 song "Jokerman" before deciding on the final version.
The $ 10 Million Bob Dylan Center Opens Up His Songwriting Secrets
27. Giving birth in the United States is more than 20 times as lethal as skydiving.
When Motherhood Is a Horror Show
28. A gasoline lawn mower generates as much pollution in an hour as a 300-mile car trip, according to the California Air Resources Board.
The Tesla Effect: Snowmobiles, Boats and Mowers Go Electric
29. The comedian Michael Che is the first Black person to become a head writer on "Saturday Night Live."
Michael Che Is Still Trying to Crack the Code
30. Before the late 18th century, the territory that is now Ukraine was largely controlled by Cossacks, a warrior people who chose their leader, or hetman, in a democratic ballot.
How Ukraine's Greatest Novelist Is Fighting for His Country
June
31. There is more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere now than at any time in at least four million years, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration officials said.
Carbon Dioxide Levels Are Highest in Human History

32. At least 19 Indigenous groups are believed to still live without outside contact in the Brazilian Amazon's Javari Valley.
Threats, Then Guns: A Journalist and an Expert Vanish in the Amazon

33. The filmmaker Werner Herzog ate maggots to coach the actor Christian Bale, who had to eat them for a scene in the 2006 movie "Rescue Dawn."
Werner Herzog's Fever Dreams

34. Adult women spend only about $ 25 on a swimsuit in the United States, according to the market research analysts at the NPD Group.
What Makes a Bathing Suit So Expensive?

35. A cheesemonger is to cheese roughly as a sommelier is to wine: not a producer, but a knowledgeable interpreter, adviser and seller.
Through Sweat and Tears, a Cheesemongering Champion Is Crowned

36. Lorraine Hansberry became the first Black woman to be produced on Broadway when "A Raisin in the Sun" premiered there in 1959, but she died just years later in 1965.
'Raisin in the Sun' and 'The Harder They Come' Part of Public Theater Season

July
37. The Yellowstone National Park region, which has warmed 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit between 1950 and 2018, is probably as warm as or warmer than it has been in 20,000 years, according to paleo-climate records cited in a study.
Yellowstone to Weigh Climate Change Risks When Rebuilding From Flood
38. Only about 25 percent of women in the Middle East participate in the labor force -- the lowest such figure in the world, even as female university graduates in the region often outnumber their male counterparts.
Cooking Online, Arab Women Find Income and Community
39. Roughly one in three American adults have criminal records.
For People Just Leaving Prison, a Novel Kind of Support: Cash
40. The word "hot" became a synonym for "popular" or "in demand" around 1909, according to the sociolinguist Kelly E. Wright. In the 1920s, its meaning was extended to include sexual desirability.
Can't Talk, I'm Busy Being Hot
41. "Mumia," a practice of using ground-up mummified bones to soothe various ailments, was popular in 17th-century Western Europe.
A Taste for Cannibalism?
42. Nearly 40 million Americans -- 28 million of them women and girls -- get migraine headaches, making them the second most disabling condition in the world after low back pain.
Migraine Treatment Has Come a Long Way
August
43. Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot of France invented the world's first self-propelled vehicle, a steam-powered tricycle built like a wagon, in 1769.
Jacques Pépin, in Search of Lost Cars and Cuisine
44. Male honeybees, or drones, are equipped only to mate: Their tongues are too short to allow them to extract nectar, and they don't have stingers that would enable them to protect the hive.
Humans Know a Lot, This Author Concedes, and Most of It Is Useless
45. The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates that $ 161 billion worth of food is dumped into landfills each year.
Dented, Dated, Discontinued? At the Salvage Grocery, It's Called a Deal
46. Tank tops were first popularized in modern Western fashion during the early 20th century as part of bathing suits for both genders. The name may come from "tank suits," as swimming pools were often called tanks in England.
Reinventing the Humble Tank Top
47. Humans spend about 35 minutes a day chewing, chimpanzees chew for about 4.5 hours a day and orangutans, about 6.6 hours.
How Chewing Shaped Human Evolution
48. At depths of 1,000 feet, water pressure can reach about 440 pounds per square inch. Such pressure would crumple most human lungs immediately upon exposure, resulting in instant death.
A Personal Submarine for Every Orthodontist
September
49. In many Indian families, women are barred from the kitchen while menstruating or, in some communities, shunted to "menstruation huts" with leaky roofs and no toilets.
Step Right Up, Mr. Tough Guy, and Try Enduring Menstrual Cramps
50. An estimated 22 million to 26 million American adults provide care for family members or friends, most of them older people, who need help with daily activities.
The Quiet Cost of Family Caregiving
51. In 1928, Tobia Nicotra, a notorious forger, hoodwinked the U.S. Library of Congress into paying $ 60 for a fake Mozart manuscript, which was later believed to have been composed by Nicotra himself.
Galileo Forgery's Trail Leads to Web of Mistresses and Manuscripts
52. A thousand land snail species are known to be at risk of extinction.
To Search for a Near-Extinct Snail, Tread Lightly
53. By the end of 2008, when Roger Federer was just 27 years old, he had already won 13 Grand Slam tournament titles.
Roger Federer Came Along When Tennis Desperately Needed Him
54. The U.S. carceral system imprisons an estimated two million people annually -- a 500 percent increase since 1970.
From Prison to the Art Gallery
October
55. A 2020 study found that up to 30 million workers had the skills to realistically move to new jobs that paid, on average, 70 percent more than their jobs at the time.
These Job-Training Programs Work, and May Show Others the Way
56. The richest 20 percent of people worldwide take 80 percent of all flights, according to estimates by the International Council on Clean Transportation.
Nations Agree to Curb Emissions From Flying by 2050
57. The 19th-century Empress Elisabeth of Austria had a shoulder tattoo, drank wine with breakfast and wore leather masks filled with raw veal as part of her skin care routine.
An Empress Ahead of Her Time Is Having a Pop Culture Moment
58. Pickleball was invented in the mid-1960s by three dads who were trying to entertain their bored children while vacationing on Bainbridge Island in Washington.
Pickleball Is Expanding. Tennis Is Mad.
59. Scientists think bananas were domesticated more than 7,000 years ago on the island of New Guinea.
The Search Is on for Mysterious Banana Ancestors
60. Since there is only one active official cemetery in Manhattan, the borough's most popular final resting place may be Central Park -- a legal site for the scattering of human ashes.
Where the Bodies Are Buried
November
61. The pop-music parodist Weird Al Yankovic acquired his first accordion from a traveling salesman and recorded his first hit in a public bathroom.
' Weird: The Al Yankovic Story' Review: Any Odd? He Beat It.
62. George Washington grew cannabis sativa on his plantation, and Thomas Jefferson came up with new ways of threshing the fibrous, fast-growing plant, which they cultivated for hemp.
For These New York Farmers, Harvest Time Means High Times
63. Nearly half of all millennials have tattoos, compared with 13 percent of the baby boomer generation, according to a 2015 survey by the Harris Poll.
A 10-Year-Old Got a Tattoo. His Mother Was Arrested.
64. Beyoncé's career total of 88 Grammy nominations ties that of Jay-Z, her husband, for the most received by any artist in the history of the awards.
Beyoncé, Kendrick Lamar and Adele Lead 2023 Grammy Nominations
65. Millions of people in Britain bought their first television in 1953, expressly to watch Queen Elizabeth II's coronation live.
'The Crown' and the Appeal of a Royal TV Interview
December
66. In 1965, Lowndes County in Alabama had no registered Black voters, despite its population being 80 percent Black.
'Lowndes County and the Road to Black Power' Review: A Movement That Changed America
67. In addition to diaper-changing, sewing and food prep, students at Norland College, a prestigious nanny school in England, receive training in martial arts and evasive driving techniques.
Where Did the Royals Find Prince George's Nanny?
68. More than half of working Turks earn around the minimum wage, which is worth less than $ 300 a month because of the Turkish lira's vast devaluation against the dollar.
Skyrocketing Prices in Turkey Hurt Families and Tarnish Erdogan
69. Gudetama, a melancholic, genderless egg character, was introduced by Sanrio in 2013, not long after Hello Kitty, the company's biggest star, started to underperform.
Gudetama, the Incredible, Miserable Egg
70. Argentina's national soccer team brought 1,100 pounds of yerba mate -- a strong and often bitter drink brewed from the leaves of a plant native to South America -- to Qatar for the World Cup.
What's Powering Argentina at the World Cup? 1,100 Pounds of Yerba Mate.
71. Only eight countries have won the World Cup.
Why Don't More Underdogs Contend for the World Cup Title?
This article appeared in print on page A4.

Subject: Cancer; Women

Location: California; United States--US; Ukraine; Angola

People: Che, Michael; Dylan, Bob (1941- ); Herzog, Werner; Moreno, Rita

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/31/insider/71-of-our-favorite-facts-of-2022.html

Title: 71 of Our Favorite Facts From 2022:   [Metropolitan Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.4

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Jan 1, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2759760569

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/71-our-favorite-facts-2022/docview/2759760569/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jan 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-01-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions