____________________________________________________________

How G.M. Fell to 16th From the Top In China: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-g-m-fell-16th-top-china/docview/3149133545/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: General Motors has gone from market leader to also-ran in the world's largest car market, stymied by its own missteps and Chinese policies that favored its local rivals.
General Motors was a pioneer in China, where for a quarter-century the company drew enormous profits and vied with Germany's Volkswagen as the top seller of cars.
Those days are over.
G.M.'s sales in China have entered a death spiral, falling 42.5 percent in the first 11 months of this year. The company now ranks 16th by sales. The dizzying collapse of its China business forced G.M. to take a roughly $ 5 billion charge against profits this month.
It was a drastic comedown for the company, which started in China in 1996 with an initial investment of $ 350 million and went on to build a network of factories, churning out vehicles and sending billions in profits to its headquarters in Detroit.
G.M.'s early China executives were highly responsive to the unique characteristics of the market. They built bulky minivans with lots of sparkling chrome to appeal to leaders of the state-owned companies that were big customers. They sold Buicks, a faded brand in the United States that still had cachet in China. For rural farmers, G.M. offered vans and pickup trucks with flimsy seats and no air-conditioning that cost only $ 5,000.
In many ways, the story of G.M. in China tracks the experience of all foreign automakers in what is now the world's largest car market.
China allowed foreign carmakers like G.M. into the country only as part of a publicly stated, long-term policy to gain technology and build its own globally competitive industry. Government leaders were also intent early on to shift away from cars that needed gasoline, which China mostly imports, and toward electric cars powered by energy sources at home like coal, solar and wind.
G.M. executives foresaw China's strength, particularly in electric cars. "China is well positioned to lead in this," David Tulauskas, an early G.M. director of China government policy, said in a 2009 interview.
But after years of success, G.M. has found it increasingly difficult to compete with Chinese rivals or adapt to the rise of electric cars.
Government policies that forced G.M. into joint ventures with Chinese companies meant that G.M. ended up teaching much of what it knew about car manufacturing to local rivals that now outsell it.
Since 2008, Beijing has collected taxes totaling more than 100 percent on large, imported cars and sport utility vehicles. The taxes are so high that G.M. does not even try to import some models, like the Cadillac Escalade. That full-size S.U.V. starts at $ 87,595 in the United States but costs $ 186,000 including tax in China, when purchased through an import agent.
Electric cars made in China face only a 13 percent tax.
In addition to wielding tax policy at foreign carmakers, Beijing limited or blocked government subsidies for cars built by foreign companies. Partly as a result, G.M. has not competed effectively in battery electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid cars. These models together accounted for 52.3 percent of the Chinese market in November, the China Passenger Car Association announced last week. That was up from 32.8 percent in January.
These fast-growing categories account for less than 20 percent of G.M. sales this year -- while its sales of gasoline-powered cars have halved.
The Chinese market transformed much faster than anyone expected. The government's target in 2017 was for one in five cars sold in 2025 not to run on gasoline or diesel.
G.M. declined to make any executives available for interviews for this article. The company provided a statement expressing optimism that its main operations in China, a joint venture with the state-owned SAIC Motor of Shanghai that makes Chevrolets, Buicks and Cadillacs, would return to health.
"G.M. is working closer than ever with our joint-venture partner SAIC to restore the business in China to make it profitable and sustainable," the company said. SAIC did not respond to requests for comment.
The architect of G.M.'s early successes was Philip F. Murtaugh, an obscure middle manager who had grown up on an Ohio farm. He went straight from high school in 1973 to the General Motors Institute, a company-sponsored college in Flint, Mich., where students worked while also taking classes. Mr. Murtaugh toiled in a factory that stamped car body parts.
Working up the ranks, Mr. Murtaugh, who spoke no Chinese, was given a crucial role on the team that negotiated G.M.'s joint venture with SAIC. While the rest of the team went back to the United States, Mr. Murtaugh stayed in Shanghai to run the new business.
China's car market was tiny -- 400,000 cars were sold in 1998. Today that number is 27 million.
One early win for the joint venture was the Buick GL8 luxury minivan for corporate fleets. Introduced in 1999, it was designed to maximize interior space but was just small enough to avoid being categorized as a commercial vehicle and tagged with a yellow sticker on a fender. A quarter-century later, luxury-apartment parking lots in Beijing and Shanghai still have many of the latest GL8s.
Next came the Buick LaCrosse sedan. In the early 2000s, Chinese consumers developed a growing taste for car ownership. G.M. executives noticed that many of these buyers were hiring drivers and riding in the back seat. Collaborating with SAIC, G.M. designed a version of the LaCrosse with extra legroom for rear-seat passengers.
Rival executives watched the joint venture's success and fumed. "I struggled with that, because I couldn't persuade people in Detroit, in Auburn Hills, to pay attention to the back seat," said Bill Russo, the top executive in China then for Chrysler, which had its headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich.
Introduced in February 2006, the special LaCrosse minted fortunes for G.M. in China. A year later, as Chinese motorists demanded fuel economy and new technology, the joint venture introduced a gasoline-electric hybrid version of the LaCrosse.
Mr. Murtaugh arranged in 2002 for G.M. to pay just $ 31 million to buy a 34 percent stake in Wuling, an obscure Chinese manufacturer in the mountains of southwestern China. Wuling made spartan, low-price vans. G.M.'s top executives in Detroit were initially skeptical of investments in economy cars. They later raised the company's stake in Wuling to 44 percent after the utilitarian vehicles proved popular in rural China.
But shortly before the first LaCrosse went on sale in China, and as Wuling's potential was only starting to become clear, Mr. Murtaugh was out of a job. His fast-growing and highly autonomous empire 7,000 miles from G.M. headquarters was earning close to $ 2 million a day by 2005. But the company's North American operations were struggling, losing about $ 10 million a day.
G.M. leaders in Michigan decided to seek greater economies from large-scale production, the company's century-old formula for success. They integrated the China joint venture's car designs, procurement and other units into respective divisions in Detroit.
Mr. Murtaugh lost his independence and most of his authority, and resigned in protest. Unemployed at 49 for the first time in his life, he left Shanghai for a home in Kentucky. Mr. Murtaugh later worked briefly for SAIC and then a succession of Chinese start-ups, but did not repeat his success at G.M. He declined to comment for this article.
At the G.M.-SAIC joint venture, the pace of hits began to slow.
In 2007, the same year the LaCrosse hybrid went on sale, China's premier, Wen Jiabao, chose a former Audi engineer, Wan Gang, to become the country's minister of science and technology. Mr. Wan would stay in the job for 11 years and, with instructions from the country's top leaders to spend whatever it took, oversaw the initial conversion of the Chinese auto industry to electric cars.
"If you compare it to Western governments' back and forth, the Chinese government's unswerving commitment to the development of the E.V. market gave companies and investors the confidence to go forward," said Stephen Dyer, a former Ford Motor executive in China who now leads Asia automotive consulting at AlixPartners.
In response to changes in the Chinese market, G.M. decided in 2011 to import the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid, which had been developed with assistance from the Obama administration. But the Chinese government told G.M. that the Volt would not qualify for government subsidies -- up to $ 19,300 per car -- unless G.M. agreed to transfer electric car technology to SAIC Motor, like how to make powerful batteries that could be recharged many times.
G.M. faced pressure from Congress not to share technologies developed partly with federal money. The company agreed to transfer electric car technology to the joint venture, but not the Volt's technology. As a result, the model did not qualify for the Chinese subsidies, which doomed it to be uncompetitive.
G.M. then became more cautious in its approach to China. Executives at Volkswagen, Ford and other automakers had long warned that G.M. was sharing too much advanced technology with SAIC. G.M. executives in the United States began to have the same worry.
The joint venture began building many cars in China using a lower-tech vehicle technology that lost appeal as the country became more affluent and Chinese automakers learned to build better cars. G.M. transferred designers and engineers from its Brazil and Mexico operations to Shanghai to replace higher-paid American engineers.
At the same time, SAIC was withdrawing Chinese engineers from the joint venture after they had worked with G.M.'s technology. SAIC assigned them to develop its own cars and minivans. Many of those SAIC vehicles would later compete directly with cars from its joint venture with G.M.
In 2016, G.M. tried again to offer a plug-in hybrid, the Buick Velite. Even though the batteries were made in China, Beijing decided to block subsidies to buyers, without telling G.M. in advance, because the company making the batteries in China, LG, was South Korean.
When the pandemic began in early 2020, G.M. evacuated almost all foreign employees and their families from China, as did Volkswagen and other automakers. China's borders were sealed to travelers. But Chinese automotive start-ups like Nio, Xpeng Motors and Zeekr were investing heavily in robots and design innovations.
Today, Chinese automakers dominate their home market. SAIC, G.M.'s longtime partner, is among the most successful. Private Chinese companies emerging from the cellphone industry -- like BYD, Xiaomi and Huawei -- pose even more formidable competition.
Last week, G.M. shut its Cruise driverless taxi program in the United States. The initiative had been essential to the company's long-term competitiveness in China, where the government is pushing faster for autonomous driving than anywhere else in the world.
G.M. said it was not giving up on China.
In April, its joint venture with SAIC introduced a plug-in hybrid version of the GL8 minivan, which has had few changes since the 1990s. It is still the best-selling minivan in China. But SAIC has introduced an almost identical competitor, the Maxus G90.
G.M. began importing Chevrolet Tahoe full-size sport utility vehicles to China from the United States this year. And to bypass Chinese taxes, it is replacing their engines with much smaller ones.
Wuling, the maker of utilitarian minivans and pickups, is selling three times as many vehicles in China as mainstay G.M. brands. G.M. still profits from its 44 percent investment, but SAIC is the controlling shareholder in Wuling with a 49 percent stake.
G.M. said its China sales of electric and plug-in hybrid cars surpassed its sales of gasoline cars in late summer for the first time. Overall sales have increased each month since July. "Our results have begun to improve," the company said.
But many in China see not just G.M. but all foreign automakers as dangerously behind. More than four-fifths of the electric and plug-in hybrid cars sold here are Chinese brands.
"It is not just G.M.," said Mr. Russo, the former Chrysler executive, who is now a Shanghai electric car consultant. "Everyone among the foreign automakers had a condescending, arrogant attitude toward the capability of the Chinese companies to embrace innovation."
Li You contributed research.
Li You contributed research.
Photograph A 6360 model on display in 2005, a product of a joint venture by G.M., Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation and Liuzhou Wuling Automotive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE / THE NEW YORK TIMES); Workers at a new G.M. plant in Shanghai in 1998, at the beginning of a long, successful stretch in China for the American carmaker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG GIRARD/CONTACT PRESS IMAGES, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); A Buick LaCrosse sedan is featured at the General Motors stand at the Beijing auto show in 2006. The model minted fortunes for G.M. in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH BRADSHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); A vehicle assembly line of the startup Nio in Hefei, China. A former Chrysler executive in China said foreign automakers paid a price for doubting Chinese automakers' ability to embrace innovation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); A Zeekr factory in Hangzhou Bay, China. During Covid, Zeekr was investing in robots and design innovations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LORENZ HUBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Success; Joint ventures; Electric vehicles; Executives; Automobile industry; Corporate profits; Automobile sales; Government subsidies; Factories; Equity stake

Business indexing term: Subject: Joint ventures Executives Automobile industry Corporate profits Automobile sales Government subsidies Factories Equity stake

Location: Beijing China; United States--US; Detroit Michigan; China

Company / organization: Name: SAIC Motor Corp Ltd; NAICS: 336110; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/19/business/gm-china.html

Title: How G.M. Fell to 16th From the Top In China:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 26, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3149133545

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-g-m-fell-16th-top-china/docview/3149133545/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 26, 2024

Last updated: 2024-12-26

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Trump's Sputnik Moment: China: [Correction]

Author: Friedman, Thomas L

Publication info: Friedman, Thomas L. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/trumps-sputnik-moment-china/docview/3147820350/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: I just spent a week in Beijing and Shanghai, meeting with Chinese officials, economists and entrepreneurs, and let me get right to the point: While we were sleeping China took a great leap forward in high-tech manufacturing of everything.
If no one has told Donald Trump, then I will: His nickname on Chinese social media today is "Chuan Jianguo" -- meaning "Trump the (Chinese) Nation Builder" -- because of how his relentless China bashing and tariffs during his first term as president lit a fire under Beijing to double down on its efforts to gain global supremacy in electric cars, robots and rare materials, and to become as independent of America's markets and tools as possible.
"China had its Sputnik moment -- his name was Donald Trump," Jim McGregor, a business consultant who lived in China for 30 years, told me. "He woke them up to the fact that they needed an all-hands-on-deck effort to take their indigenous scientific, innovative and advanced manufacturing skills to a new level."
The China that Trump will encounter is a much more formidable export engine. Its advanced manufacturing muscles have exploded in size, sophistication and quantity in the last eight years, even while consumption by its people remains puny.
If I were drawing a picture of China's economy today as a person, it would have an awesome manufacturing upper body -- like Popeye, still eating spinach -- with consuming legs resembling thin little sticks.
China's export machine is so strong now that only very high tariffs might really slow it down, and China's response to very high tariffs could be to start cutting off American industries from crucial supplies that are now available almost nowhere else. That kind of supply-chain warfare is not what anyone, anywhere needs.
The Chinese experts I spoke with during my trip two weeks ago would like to avoid that battle. The Chinese still need the U.S. market for their exports. But they will not be pushovers. Both Beijing and Washington will be much better off with a bargain -- one that imposes a gradual increase in U.S. tariffs, while both of us do what we needed to do long ago.
What is that? I call it the "Elon Musk-Taylor Swift paradigm." America would use higher tariffs on China to buy time to lift up more Elon Musks -- more homegrown manufacturers who can make big stuff so we can export more to the world and import less. And China would use the time to let in more Taylor Swifts -- more opportunities for its youth to spend money on entertainment and consumer goods made abroad, but also to make more goods and offer more services -- particularly in health care -- that its own people want to buy.
But if we don't use this time to respond to China the way we did to the Soviet Union's 1957 launch of Sputnik, the world's first artificial satellite, with our own comprehensive scientific, innovative and industrial push, we will be toast.
You have to go to China to see it, but because a U.S. congressional delegation, led by Senator Chuck Schumer in October 2023, was the first official visit by U.S. lawmakers since 2019 -- and because many U.S. companies that moved their American staffs out of China for Covid never returned them -- a lot of people in Washington have missed the country's staggering manufacturing growth.
Here's what Noah Smith, who writes about manufacturing, posted the other day, using data from the United Nations Industrial Development Organization:
In 2000, "the United States and its allies in Asia, Europe and Latin America accounted for the overwhelming majority of global industrial production, with China at just 6 percent even after two decades of rapid growth." By 2030, Smith wrote, the U.N. agency predicts "China will account for 45 percent of all global manufacturing, single-handedly matching or outmatching the U.S. and all of its allies.
"This is a level of manufacturing dominance by a single country seen only twice before in world history -- by the U.K. at the start of the Industrial Revolution, and by the U.S. just after World War II." Smith wrote, "It means that in an extended war of production, there is no guarantee that the entire world united could defeat China alone."
Let me offer a few examples of the scale of what we're talking about: In 2019, as Trump was finishing his last term, net lending by Chinese banks to domestic industries was $ 83 billion. Last year it swelled to $ 670 billion, according to the People's Bank of China. That is not a typo.
When I visited China in 2019, before Covid, Xiaomi and Huawei were only Chinese smartphone companies. When I returned a few weeks ago, both were now also electric car companies -- each leveraging its battery technologies to make really cool electric cars.
Xiaomi's SU7 was the talk of the Beijing car show last April. Meanwhile, BYD, the famed Chinese battery company, which already had a car-making subsidiary, doubled down on automobiles. I rode all over Shanghai in super-comfortable BYD electric cars operated by Didi, China's Uber. BYD now offers a subcompact E.V., the Seagull, that starts at less than $ 10,000.
In an effort to export its large inventory of cars, China has begun construction of a fleet of 170 ships capable of carrying several thousand automobiles at a time across the ocean. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, the world's shipyards were delivering only four such vessels a year. That is also not a typo.
Because China has essentially a national electric grid, it has installed charging stations all over the country, which is why more than half of new car sales in China are of E.V.s. Apple talked for 15 years about making an electric car. Has anyone driven an Apple car?
I took the bullet train from Beijing to Shanghai. The trip is roughly the distance between New York City and Chicago. Only it takes just 4.5 hours because the train goes over 200 miles per hour and there's almost 100 of them going back and forth each day. The ride is so smooth, if you put a dime on the ledge next to your window -- half on the ledge and half off -- it will be there exactly as you left it from the beginning of the trip to the end. Try that on the Acela between New York City and Washington and the dime will be on the floor in two seconds after the train starts wobbling out of the station.
In case you missed the story, while I was in Beijing, General Motors took a write-down of more than $ 5 billion on the value of its once cutting-edge factory that at one time was a major player in the Chinese car market. Sales at G.M.'s China joint venture, SAIC-GM, "slumped 59 percent in the first 11 months of this year, to 370,989 units, while local new-energy vehicle champion BYD sold more than 10 times that number in the same period," Reuters reported.
But don't worry, folks, help is on the way. Trump has vowed to make America great again by doubling down on drill-baby-drill gas guzzlers and ending U.S. government subsidies for Americans who purchase electric cars.
So, what do you think is going to happen? The rest of the world will gradually transition to Chinese-made self-driving E.V.s, "and America will become the new Cuba -- the place where you visit to see old gas-guzzling cars that you drive yourself," as Keith Bradsher, the Times Beijing bureau chief and an auto industry specialist, mused to me.
If that happens, one day we'll wake up and China will own the global electric vehicle market. And since fully autonomous driving technology only really works with E.V.s, that means China will own the future -- the self-driving-cars market as well.
Here's another way the China that Trump will face in 2025 looks a lot different from his last go-round. If Trump were even to tell China, "Hey, I'll let you off the hook on tariffs, if you build more factories in America," that would definitely help reduce our trade deficit with Beijing, but it might not be such a vote-getter for Republicans. Because here is what China would say: "Sure, how many factories would you like? Forty? Fifty? But there's one thing. The assembly lines will all be staffed by robots, and we can even operate them remotely."
I learned a new term on this visit: "dark factory." A retired Chinese official mentioned to me in passing over dinner that she wanted to buy a new high-tech bed and decided to go see the offerings at the factory. When she arrived, though, she found it was a "dark factory" -- so the lights were turned on just for her. It wasn't dark because it was out of business, she told me. It was dark because it was so fully roboticized that the company doesn't waste electricity keeping the lights on for any humans -- except for the engineers who come to clean or adjust the machines once a day.
As an article in the state-run China Daily explained: "From steel plates and mobile phones to household motors and rocket ignition device parts, more business lines in China are using artificial intelligence to power their production and have introduced 'dark factories' with their 24-hour uninterrupted and unattended production capabilities. Dark factories, also called smart factories, are entirely run by programmed robots with no need for lighting."
You remember the old joke? "The modern factory will be just a man and a dog. The dog will be there to keep the man from touching the machines and the man will be there to feed the dog." That is not a joke in China.
More Americans might get a better feel for what is going on there if they simply went and ordered room service at their hotel. I love this account from a German travel vlogger from his Shanghai hotel experience, recounted recently by Global Times: "'OK, so the phone is ringing. That means the robot is here,' he said at the beginning of the video. When he opened the door, he saw a robot standing there waiting for him. When he pressed the 'open' button on the machine, the lid on the top opened to reveal the food he had ordered inside. He took out the package and hit 'finished' to close the compartment and watched the robot return to the elevator."
No tip required.
But there is another reason for China's headlong rush to robotization: demographic necessity. In America, strong trade unions and a growing population make robots the natural enemy of working people, because of how they supplant blue-collar labor. China's population collapse and its heavy restrictions on trade unions make introducing more and more robots to factory floors both economically essential and politically easier (but China, too, will most likely face a backlash from its blue-collar workers).
In the last seven years alone, the number of babies born in China fell from 18 million to nine million. The latest projection is that China's current population of 1.4 billion will decline by 100 million by 2050 and possibly by 700 million by the end of the century. To preserve its own standard of living and be able to take care of all its old people, with a steadily shrinking working population, China will drive the robotization of everything for itself -- and the rest of the world.
In his first term, Trump -- and Biden, too -- was right to impose tariffs on China as long as it didn't give us reciprocal access. China has consistently violated World Trade Organization trade rules to avoid giving reciprocal access to its major trading partners, and it has greatly subsidized its companies. I have complained about this for years. China has historically bought $ 1 from America for every $ 4 America bought from China; much of that is soybeans and other agricultural products.
But here's what's scary: We no longer make that many things China wants to buy. It can do almost everything at least cheaper and often better.
Eric Chen is the founder of Kingwills, a Chinese materials science company that competes with, among others, DuPont. He explained to me that what young Chinese entrepreneurs like himself learned from the Chinese internet giants like Tencent, ByteDance and Alibaba was "rapid innovation and improvement." His foreign competitors, said Chen, upgrade their products much more slowly and, when they do, can take five or six years to build a new factory.
"We upgrade some products every 30 days. We can produce a new production line in six months. We learned from Elon Musk and Steve Jobs. You are really good" at taking products "from zero to 1. We are good at going from 2 to 100."
This is possible because the steady buildup of manufacturing capacity in China means that virtually anything you need today -- from a tiny part to a rare earth chemical -- can be sourced domestically. No other country in the world has such a complete homegrown ecosystem, Chen explained, so any idea you come up with, "you can do all the sourcing from here. We have a three-year target to have zero labor for production and storage using a combination of robots and A.I." Then "we can sit in China and control production outside of China. Then we can put factories closer to the customer."
He added one warning, though: "Probably in the future the competition for the U.S. is not China, but A.I. It is coming for both of us."
Foreign business executives operating in China will tell you that you used to have to be there to have access to its giant market of consumers. You still have to be there, they say, but today it's also in order to have access to China's expanding market of innovators. Get ready for more "designed in China," not just "made in China."
We fool ourselves if we believe that China's growing strength in advanced manufacturing is only from unfair trade practices. It is also because it has lots and lots of people still burning to work, as they say, "9-9-6" -- that is 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. 6 days a week to make a better life, and because Beijing has invested in world-class infrastructure, and because it deliberately suppresses consumer spending and because it has a seemingly endless supply of students majoring in engineering -- and not so many in sports management, sociology and gender studies.
"The Chinese treat education like we treat sports," said Han Shen Lin, who teaches at N.Y.U. Shanghai.
*
So, China's going to bury us? That is not at all inevitable.
I left as impressed with China's weaknesses as much as with its strengths. I don't want to see instability in China. It's important to the world that China continues to be able to give its 1.4 billion people a better life -- but it cannot be at the expense of everyone else.
And it is clear to me from being there that, in the relative absence of foreign visitors, a lot of Chinese have grown out of touch with how China is perceived in the world. As a senior White House official said to me, China "freaked out" the rest of the world when it began its "Made in China 2025" agenda -- a state-led and -funded industrial policy that aimed to make China the dominant producer in every aspect of advanced manufacturing, from aerospace to material science to machine tools. And it's not only freaking out more developed manufacturers, like the United States and Germany, but also developing countries like Brazil, the Philippines and Indonesia, as they see China dominating overseas and yet still constricting its domestic consumption.
China has billions and billions of dollars in domestic savings that could stimulate its economy, but people will spend those savings only if they have confidence in their government and faith in the future. But the government's bad performance at the end of Covid shook that confidence, and the lack of transparency about China's future direction has kept savers cautious.
Their reluctance to spend is compounded by youth unemployment stuck over 17 percent, as well as by seeing some cities so starved for cash that raiding parties of tax collectors are sent to track down tax evaders in other provinces. In addition, the persistent housing crisis, born of immense overbuilding, has left many Chinese feeling house-poor. It also doesn't help confidence to read that China's third consecutive serving or former defense minister is being investigated for alleged corruption in the People's Liberation Army.
Most important, the government's prioritizing of Communist Party ideology and state-owned industries is driving some of China's most talented private-sector innovators to quietly move their money, families or themselves to Japan, Dubai and Singapore. That is not a good trend for China.
My free advice to my friends in China is that an economy this unbalanced is not sustainable. It will eventually generate a global trade alliance against them. The world will not let China make everything and only import soybeans and potatoes. China needs more nurses to provide good health care at home -- and fewer engineers to design more cars for abroad. Its youth need more outlets for creative expression -- without having to worry that a song lyric they write could land them in prison. I talked to too many people who feel choked or don't dare speak their minds. They see the crackdown in Hong Kong. It was not like this 15 years ago. There is a reason so many educated young Chinese now yearn to go abroad.
As for my neighbors in America, I have a confession. I caught a virus in China that I never imagined I'd get: "Elon Musk appreciation."
I'd become so disgusted with the way Musk had been using his X megaphone to bully defenseless people and fawn over Donald Trump that I just wanted that Elon Musk to shut up and go away. But there is another Elon Musk. The genius engineer-entrepreneur who can make stuff, big stuff -- electric cars, reusable rockets and satellite internet systems -- as well as anyone in China can, and often better.
Elon Musk at his best, though, is the one American manufacturer the Chinese fear and respect. It is crazy to me that Trump is wasting Musk on the project of shrinking the U.S. bureaucracy -- under the acronym DOGE, for the informal "Department of Government Efficiency" -- when he should be leading another DOGE, a government office for enabling more Americans to "Do Good Engineering."
In sum, America needs to tighten up, but China needs to loosen up. Which is why my hat is off to Secretary of State Antony Blinken for showing China the way forward. On April 26, as Blinken was en route to the airport after a visit that included a meeting with China's president, Xi Jinping, Reuters reported, he popped into the LiPi record store in the Chinese capital's arts district.
Blinken bought two records -- one was an album by the classic Chinese rocker Dou Wei. The other was Taylor Swift's 2022 record "Midnights." Swift's "Lover" album in 2019 had more than one million combined streams, downloads and sales in China within a week of its release -- a record for an international artist, the Reuters story noted.
The demand from Chinese consumers is there. I'd say it's time for China's leaders to let their people have more of the supply. It would be good for both our countries.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
(PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page SR4.

Subject: Manufacturing; Electric vehicles; Artificial satellites; Factories; Tariffs

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturing Factories Tariffs

Location: China; Beijing China; New York City New York; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J

Title: Trump's Sputnik Moment: China:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: SR.4

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Dec 22, 2024

column: Thomas L. Friedman

Section: SR

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3147820350

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/n ewspapers/trumps-sputnik-moment-china/docview/3147820350/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Dec 22, 2024

Last updated: 2025-01-08

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Huawei's Latest Phone Stings Apple in China: [Correction]

Author: Tobin, Meaghan; Liu, John

Publication info: Tobin, Meaghan; Liu, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/huaweis-latest-phone-stings-apple-china/docview/3133083380/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Last year, a chip breakthrough put Huawei on top of the Chinese smartphone market. Now it is rolling out its newest phone, the Mate 70 series.
Last year, the tech giant Huawei catapulted to the top of the smartphone market in China when it released the Mate 60 Pro, a phone that contained a tiny computer chip more advanced than any previously made by a Chinese company.
The chips used by Huawei's smartphones have become a symbol in the struggle between China and the United States for control over advanced technology.
Policymakers in Washington have spent years trying to prevent Chinese companies from being able to make the kind of chip Huawei uses in its Mate phone. But Huawei has pressed ahead, and the phone has burnished its image as a national leader, triumphant in the face of U.S. restrictions.
Shoppers in China were excited to buy a phone with state-of-the-art components that had been made entirely at home. Huawei was able to appeal to Chinese customers who previously would have been more likely to buy iPhones, eating into Apple's most important market outside the United States.
On Tuesday, Huawei unveiled the next generation of that phone, the Mate 70 series, from its offices in Shenzhen in southeastern China. Richard Yu, Huawei's consumer group chairman, called the flagship device the "smartest" Mate phone.
Powered by its homegrown operating system, HarmonyOS Next, which was officially launched last month, the Mate 70 series has artificial intelligence-enabled functions, including improved photography, live transcription and translation of phone calls. Apple has yet to release its A.I. features in China.
Starting at $ 760, the price of the Mate 70 is meant to compete with the iPhone in China. HarmonyOS Next allows phones to connect with Huawei's other products: electric cars, smart speakers and watches.
But widespread commercial success for the Mate 70 could depend on Huawei's ability to secure a steady supply of chips.
The company relied on the Chinese chip maker Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC, to make the chips in the Mate 60 Pro. SMIC, which is partly state owned, is the only maker of advanced chips in China. Analysts said they believed Huawei had again turned to SMIC for the Mate 70. Huawei did not reveal details on Tuesday about the chips in the new phone.
A critical question is how advanced the chips are, because that can determine whether they can perform more sophisticated tasks like A.I. at a faster speed.
U.S. officials seeking to control China's chip development say advanced technology is essential not just for consumer technology like chatbots but also for military superiority. They have tried to prevent Chinese companies from buying these kinds of chips and related machinery, leaving SMIC dependent on dated tools.
Experts say SMIC has strained to make enough chips for Huawei. Even though production for some parts in Huawei's latest phones began in July, the Mate 70 has not gone on sale until now because it has been challenging for Huawei to acquire enough chips, said Lori Chang, a senior analyst at Isaiah Research, a market research company.
SMIC did not respond to a request for comment.
As of Tuesday, over three million people had signed up on Huawei's website to reserve the company's latest flagship phone, which does not require a deposit. The premium version of the Mate 70 is set to go on sale in China on Tuesday, according to Huawei's website.
Huawei has been working for years to position itself as synonymous with the country's tech industry, as Apple is with Silicon Valley. Resurgence in spite of Washington's controls is a crucial part of this image.
A top Huawei executive, Meng Wanzhou, became a hero to many in China after her return in 2021 following almost three years of detention in Canada while facing fraud charges in the United States. A series of trade restrictions against Huawei first put in place during the Trump administration pummeled its profits in 2022. Since Ms. Meng's release, Huawei has expanded its product range and developed some of China's most advanced A.I. technology.
Over the past two years, the company has steadily gained ground in China's smartphone market.
In 2022, three-quarters of the high-end smartphones sold in China were iPhones. This year, it was just about half, as Huawei's share more than doubled, according to Canalys, a market research firm.
"Huawei's goal over the past few years has been consistent -- to reclaim some of the market share that iPhone holds in China," Ms. Chang said.
Huawei faces stiff competition from domestic rivals like Xiaomi and Oppo, which sell less expensive devices. To compete, Huawei will have to sell more midrange models, too, said Toby Zhu, a senior analyst at Canalys.
But even those devices will require a large number of chips. And as foreign chip makers like the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, stop sending chips to Chinese clients, this could become increasingly difficult as more companies will depend on SMIC for advanced chips.
"Not only Huawei but now all China-based A.I. makers, they face the same issue," said Linda Sui, a senior director at TechInsights, a market research firm. "If they all ship through SMIC, that's going to make the supply constraints even worse next year."
Photograph From top: Shoppers checking out Huawei's smartphones at a store in Shanghai in March; Meng Wanzhou, a top Huawei executive, who became a hero to many upon her return to China after being detained abroad; a Huawei Pura 70 series smartphone; Huawei smartwatches displayed at Thailand Mobile Expo 2024 in Bangkok last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; REUTERS; TINGSHU WANG/REUTERS; RUNGROJ YONGRIT/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Smartphones; Semiconductors; Market research firms; Trade restrictions; Market research; Competition

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Market research firms Trade restrictions Market research

Location: China; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; NAICS: 334111, 334210, 513210, 541511; Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111, 334220, 513210

Title: Huawei's Latest Phone Stings Apple in China:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 27, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3133083380

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/huaweis-latest-phone-stings-apple-china/docview/3133083380/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2024

Last updated: 2025-04-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Tax Bill Makes Apple's Profit Take Big Hit: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tax-bill-makes-apples-profit-take-big-hit/docview/3123193143/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Sales for the iPhone maker were up 6 percent to to $ 94.93 billion. But a $ 14.4 billion tax bill cut profits that would have topped expectations.
Over the past month, Apple blanketed television with commercials about how its newest iPhone had exciting artificial intelligence capabilities even though the company was still working on many of the features it was pitching.
But Apple's delay with A.I. didn't cut into profits. Regulators did.
On Monday, the tech giant said sales of iPhones, iPads and subscription services like Apple Music had helped the company increase its quarterly revenue by 6 percent to $ 94.93 billion during the three months that ended in September.
The increased revenue didn't translate into profit gains because Apple, which lost a court case in September, was forced to pay the European Union $ 14.4 billion in unpaid taxes. The one-time payment reduced its quarterly profit by 36 percent to $ 14.74 billion.
The results exceeded Wall Street analysts' expectations for $ 94.58 billion in sales and, excluding the one-time tax payment, would have topped projections for $ 24.49 billion in profit. The company said it expected revenue to increase in the current quarter, which ends in December. Shares fell 2 percent in after-hours trading.
In September, Apple unveiled iPhones that could use its generative A.I. system, called Apple Intelligence, to sort messages, offer writing suggestions and use a more capable Siri virtual assistant. It released the first of those features this week, but other A.I. bells and whistles are coming out more slowly than expected.
Still, Apple said iPhone sales rose 5.5 percent to $ 46.22 billion during the quarter that ended in September.
During a call with analysts, Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, said that the company would add new A.I. features in December, including additional writing tools and the integration of ChatGPT. It will also expand to Britain, Canada and Australia. More languages will be available next April.
"It's a very strong drum beat," Mr. Cook said, adding that twice as many iPhone users have downloaded the latest software as a year ago.
The staggered rollout of Apple Intelligence features has tempered Wall Street's expectations for the technology's ability to quickly drive new iPhone sales.
"This isn't the end of the world, but it suggests they're not going to succeed in changing people's behavior, who are holding onto their phone longer and longer," said Charles Rinehart, chief investment officer at Johnston Investment Counsel, a financial advisory firm.
Apple is leaning on A.I. as it faces stiffer smartphone competition in China. Huawei sales have surged behind new models and interest in a phone that can be folded twice. There has also been an uptick in purchases of Xiaomi and Vivo phones, which have helped cut Apple's share of the Chinese smartphone market to 13.5 percent from 14.5 percent, according to Counterpoint Technology Market Research.
In the face of that competition, Apple's sales in China, its second-largest market, were flat at $ 15 billion. The company posted sales increases in every other geographic region, including the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific.
Services, which include the sales of apps, Apple TV+ and Apple Pay, continue to be the growth engine for Apple's business. The company is taking a cut of revenue from more than one billion subscriptions sold across iPhones and iPads. Sales of services in the quarter rose 12 percent to $ 24.97 billion, which was less than analysts had forecast.
The resilience of that business could be challenged next year. In August, a federal judge ruled that Google is a monopolist. The Justice Department may ask the judge to address that by preventing Google from paying Apple to be the default search engine on iPhones. Such a ruling could cost Apple about $ 20 billion a year in services revenue.
Apple could also face challenges should Donald J. Trump return to the White House. Mr. Trump has said he would impose tariffs on products made outside the United States. That would be tough for Apple, which makes its devices in Asia, with most iPhones made in China.
When a Wall Street analyst asked what Apple would do about that, Mr. Cook declined to answer the question, saying it was too speculative.
Apple's other devices showed strength in the quarter. Sales of Macs rose 2 percent to $ 7.74 billion, while sales of iPads jumped 20 percent to $ 6.95 billion.
The company's wearables business, which includes the Apple Watch and AirPods, was the only area of weakness in the period. It declined 3 percent to $ 9.04 billion.
This week, Apple released a new Mac Mini, an iMac and a MacBook Pro with more powerful chips to support Apple Intelligence. Last month, it released a new Apple Watch with a larger screen and new AirPods.
Apple's call with analysts on Thursday was the last for its chief financial officer, Luca Maestri. He is stepping down from his position in January and will be replaced by Kevan Parekh, who has worked for the company for more than a decade, most recently as vice president of financial planning and analysis.
During Mr. Maestri's decade in the role, Apple's sales and profits nearly doubled, while the company's market valuation rose from about $ 600 billion to nearly $ 3.5 trillion.
Photograph Apple's delay with A.I. didn't slow down its business. Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, said that the company would add new A.I. features in December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY OSBORNE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B3.

Subject: Smartphones; Corporate profits

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Corporate profits

Location: China; Asia

Company / organization: Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111, 334220, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/31/technology/apple-profit-earnings.html

Title: Tax Bill Makes Apple's Profit Take Big Hit:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.3

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Nov 2, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3123193143

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tax-bill-makes-apples-profit-take-big-hit/docview/3123193143/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2024

Last updated: 2024-11-02

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Chinese Investors Struggle For a Toehold in Silicon Valley: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Li, Yuan

Publication info: Li, Yuan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinese-investors-struggle-toehold-silicon-valley/docview/3101423861/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Entrepreneurs and venture capitalists are setting up firms across the Pacific, only to find that any investment with Chinese ties is a hard sell.
One Saturday evening in late July, more than 100 people attended an elaborate party in the lush garden of a mansion in Silicon Valley. The host was David Wei, a former chief executive of Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, and now a venture capital investor. Guests, most dressed in white, were offered Panama hats as the bright California sun set and models walked a catwalk between large round tables covered with white cloths.
Many of the guests were current or former investors or entrepreneurs in China's tech industry. Their conversations, like those at a number of similar gatherings in Silicon Valley this summer, bounced among three topics: how little confidence they have in China; how many opportunities artificial intelligence presents in the United States; and how they can get into the game on this side of the Pacific.
Chinese tech professionals are moving to Silicon Valley for opportunities they don't believe are available in China anymore. They're part of a wave of Chinese companies "going global," as a growing number of businesses look outside their home country for growth.
With China's economy in a lasting slump, investors and entrepreneurs are seeking the next China. They feel unwelcome by their government, which in recent years has sent an ominous message by clamping down on private companies. The heightened tensions between China and the United States make it tough to operate as a Chinese-based business with international ambitions. There are opportunities in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Africa. But only one other market can compare to China in size and potential. That's the United States.
Most eager to make the jump are the venture capitalists. They used to be able to raise money from funds managed by America's university endowments, retirement pensions and wealthy individuals, and then invest that money in Chinese start-ups. They helped give rise to China's tech industry, backing Alibaba, Baidu (internet search), Xiaomi (smartphones) and Didi (ride hailing). When these companies did public stock offerings, the venture capital investors reaped bountiful returns.
This is also the group now in the most awkward position. Neither Beijing nor Washington wants these people to invest in cutting edge technologies such as artificial intelligence, quantum computing and semiconductors. Both governments have made it difficult for the companies they back to list stock for sale in New York, their main way to cash in.
"We used to enjoy the best of both worlds," said a venture capitalist who has worked in both countries for decades. "Now we're losing on both ends."
All of the 14 Chinese venture capitalists and entrepreneurs I talked to are working in Silicon Valley or making plans to do so. Most of them requested anonymity because they don't want to attract attention from Beijing or Washington.
The first thing one of them said to me when we met in Palo Alto was that her career in China was finished and that she was depressed. She had not made a single deal in nearly three years. She plans to focus on Silicon Valley but will need to spend time in China to wind up projects.
Another investor, who had not visited the United States much in the past decade, told me that she would split her time between the two countries while looking for U.S. start-ups to back.
A third person, who relocated to Silicon Valley this year, was the most determined to settle down. He said he was selling his investments or dissolving his companies in China. He no longer feels safe there, he said, because the government jailed entrepreneurs or imposed sometimes huge fines on private enterprises.
He said most of his peers were reluctant to leave China completely and start over in a foreign country with a foreign language and a foreign culture. It has been tough for him, he added.
Tom Zhang, a well-connected human resources expert who has worked at several big tech companies in Silicon Valley, said he had met with many investors from China since last year.
"They have completely lost their direction, buzzing around like flies, not knowing what to invest in next," he told me.
There's no doubt that these people belong to the privileged class. To meet with them, I visited quite a few fancy mansions. One home sat atop the Los Gatos hills; my Uber driver whistled in awe when he turned onto the long driveway. Then he chuckled when he stopped his modest S.U.V. in front of a red Ferrari, a Tesla Cybertruck and a few Audis and BMWs. And there was Mr. Wei's party, which one partygoer described to me as Gatsbyesque.
Nonetheless, the frustrations of this moneyed set reflect a significant shift in the tech world: the bust of a financial pipeline known as U.S. dollar-denominated venture capital funds, and the demise of the market economy-driven model that propelled China's tech growth. Behind the shift is the vision that China's leader, Xi Jinping, has for the country's tech industry, one that is led by the government and aims for national self-reliance.
The ramifications of this approach for China's drive for innovation and its tech rivalry with the United States probably won't be clear for years.
But for now, on the human level, it's a waste of talent for China. A generation of investors who spent two decades cultivating start-ups and shaping tech development have nowhere to apply their expertise.
The problem for China's displaced investors is that the United States isn't exactly a welcoming land.
Since 2018, the U.S. government has heightened its scrutiny of Chinese technology. A year ago, President Biden signed an executive order banning new American investment in key industries that could help Beijing's military capabilities.
This has left many in Silicon Valley afraid of China. Some brand-name venture firms will not consider putting money into a start-up that has taken funds from investors with China ties, a Chinese venture capitalist who had started two funds in the Valley told me. And that leaves founders reluctant to take money from transplanted Chinese investors for fear of scaring off later investors. His assessment was confirmed by other people I interviewed.
Only start-ups that are desperate for funding will take money from relocated Chinese investors. The few venture firms with China connections have rebranded themselves and take pains to explain that all the partners are U.S. citizens and that their funding mainly came from outside China.
One veteran investor told me that a founder had refused to talk to him even after he explained that he had been a naturalized citizen for decades. People are acting with extra caution, the investor said.
But that's not stopping other venture capitalists from looking at Silicon Valley as the promised land. They still have some slim hope, said the investor who has started two funds here. They probably won't be able to land the next Alibaba, but they might find some opportunities to invest in small start-ups that might succeed, he added.
That might be better than nothing.
Photograph Venture capitalists have raised funds to invest in Chinese tech start-ups like Xiaomi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL ZHANG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Entrepreneurs; Investments; Artificial intelligence; Startups; Investors; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs Artificial intelligence Startups Venture capital

Location: China; Silicon Valley-California; Beijing China; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/29/business/china-venture-capital.html

Title: Chinese Investors Struggle For a Toehold in Silicon Valley:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 7, 2024

column: The New New World

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3101423861

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinese-investors-struggle-toehold-silicon-valley/docview/3101423861/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 7, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-07

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Chinese Investors Struggle for a Toehold in Silicon Valley

Author: Li, Yuan

Publication info: Li, Yuan. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinese-investors-struggle-toehold-silicon-valley/docview/3101368076/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
PALO ALTO, Calif. — One Saturday evening in late July, more than 100 people attended an elaborate party in the lush garden of a mansion in Silicon Valley. The host was David Wei, a former CEO of Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, and now a venture capital investor. Guests, most dressed in white, were offered Panama hats as the bright California sun set and models walked a catwalk between large round tables covered with white cloths.
Many of the guests were current or former investors or entrepreneurs in China’s tech industry. Their conversations, like those at a number of similar gatherings in Silicon Valley this summer, bounced among three topics: how little confidence they have in China; how many opportunities artificial intelligence presents in the United States; and how they can get into the game on this side of the Pacific.
Chinese tech professionals are moving to Silicon Valley for opportunities they don’t believe are available in China anymore. They’re part of a wave of Chinese companies “going global,” as a growing number of businesses look outside their home country for growth.
With China’s economy in a lasting slump, investors and entrepreneurs are seeking the next China. They feel unwelcome by their government, which in recent years has sent an ominous message by clamping down on private companies. The heightened tensions between China and the United States make it tough to operate as a Chinese-based business with international ambitions. There are opportunities in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Africa. But only one other market can compare to China in size and potential. That’s the United States.
Most eager to make the jump are the venture capitalists. They used to be able to raise money from funds managed by America’s university endowments, retirement pensions and wealthy individuals, and then invest that money in Chinese startups. They helped give rise to China’s tech industry, backing Alibaba, Baidu (internet search), Xiaomi (smartphones) and Didi (ride hailing). When these companies did public stock offerings, the venture capital investors reaped bountiful returns.
This is also the group now in the most awkward position. Neither China nor the United States wants these people to invest in cutting edge technologies such as artificial intelligence, quantum computing and semiconductors. Both governments have made it difficult for the companies they back to list stock for sale in New York, their main way to cash in.
“We used to enjoy the best of both worlds,” said a venture capitalist who has worked in both countries for decades. “Now we’re losing on both ends.”
All of the 14 Chinese venture capitalists and entrepreneurs I talked to are working in Silicon Valley or making plans to do so. Most of them requested anonymity because they don’t want to attract attention from China or the U.S.
The first thing one of them said to me when we met in Palo Alto was that her career in China was finished and that she was depressed. She had not made a single deal in nearly three years. She plans to focus on Silicon Valley but will need to spend time in China to wind up projects.
Another investor, who had not visited the United States much in the past decade, told me that she would split her time between the two countries while looking for U.S. startups to back.
A third person, who relocated to Silicon Valley this year, was the most determined to settle down. He said he was selling his investments or dissolving his companies in China. He no longer feels safe there, he said, because the government jailed entrepreneurs or imposed sometimes huge fines on private enterprises.
He said most of his peers were reluctant to leave China completely and start over in a foreign country with a foreign language and a foreign culture. It has been tough for him, he added.
Tom Zhang, a well-connected human resources expert who has worked at several big tech companies in Silicon Valley, said he had met with many investors from China since last year.
“They have completely lost their direction, buzzing around like flies, not knowing what to invest in next,” he told me.
There’s no doubt that these people belong to the privileged class. To meet with them, I visited quite a few fancy mansions. One home sat atop the Los Gatos hills; my Uber driver whistled in awe when he turned onto the long driveway. Then he chuckled when he stopped his modest SUV in front of a red Ferrari, a Tesla Cybertruck and a few Audis and BMWs. And there was Wei’s party, which one partygoer described to me as Gatsbyesque.
Nonetheless, the frustrations of this moneyed set reflect a significant shift in the tech world: the bust of a financial pipeline known as U.S. dollar-denominated venture capital funds, and the demise of the market economy-driven model that propelled China’s tech growth. Behind the shift is the vision that China’s leader, Xi Jinping, has for the country’s tech industry, one that is led by the government and aims for national self-reliance.
The ramifications of this approach for China’s drive for innovation and its tech rivalry with the United States probably won’t be clear for years.
But for now, on the human level, it’s a waste of talent for China. A generation of investors who spent two decades cultivating startups and shaping tech development have nowhere to apply their expertise.
The problem for China’s displaced investors is that the United States isn’t exactly a welcoming land.
Since 2018, the U.S. government has heightened its scrutiny of Chinese technology. A year ago, President Joe Biden signed an executive order banning new American investment in key industries that could help China’s military capabilities.
This has left many in Silicon Valley afraid of China. Some brand-name venture firms will not consider putting money into a startup that has taken funds from investors with China ties, a Chinese venture capitalist who had started two funds in the Valley told me. And that leaves founders reluctant to take money from transplanted Chinese investors for fear of scaring off later investors. His assessment was confirmed by other people I interviewed.
Only startups that are desperate for funding will take money from relocated Chinese investors. The few venture firms with China connections have rebranded themselves and take pains to explain that all the partners are U.S. citizens and that their funding mainly came from outside China.
One veteran investor told me that a founder had refused to talk to him even after he explained that he had been a naturalized citizen for decades. People are acting with extra caution, the investor said.
But that’s not stopping other venture capitalists from looking at Silicon Valley as the promised land. They still have some slim hope, said the investor who has started two funds here. They probably won’t be able to land the next Alibaba, but they might find some opportunities to invest in small startups that might succeed, he added.
That might be better than nothing.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Entrepreneurs; Investments; Artificial intelligence; Startups; Investors; Venture capital

Business indexing term: Subject: Entrepreneurs Artificial intelligence Startups Venture capital

Location: China; Silicon Valley-California; New York; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120

Identifier / keyword: Smartphones; Economic Conditions And Trends; Cupertino (Calif); Language And Languages; Google Inc; International Relations; Executive Orders And Memorandums; Artificial Intelligence; Names, Organizational; Panama; Alibaba Group Holding Ltd; Venture Capital; United States; Corporations; Philanthropy; Politics And Government; Xiaomi Tech; California; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Ma, Jack; Search Engines; Uber Technologies Inc; Didi Chuxing; Pensions And Retirement Plans; United States Politics And Government; Shanghai (China); Foreign Investments; Computers And The Internet; Los Gatos (Calif); E Commerce; Middle East; Entrepreneurship; Car Services And Livery Cabs; Palo Alto (Calif); Agence France Presse; Africa; Silicon Valley (Calif); Meta Platforms Inc; France; Baidu Inc; Washington (Dc); Business; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; United States Economy; Xi Jinping; Start Ups; Menlo Park (Calif); San Jose (Calif); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Quantum Computing; Mountain View (Calif)

Title: Chinese Investors Struggle for a Toehold in Silicon Valley

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Sep 6, 2024

Dateline: 2024-09-06T22:36:56Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3101368076

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinese-investors-struggle-toehold-silicon-valley/docview/3101368076/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-09-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Taiwan Electronics Giant Will Build an Electric Car Factory Near Its iPhone Hub: [Correction]

Author: Tobin, Meaghan; Liu, John

Publication info: Tobin, Meaghan; Liu, John. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taiwan-electronics-giant-will-build-electric-car/docview/3093014856/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The Taiwanese company has built a manufacturing hub in Zhengzhou, China, for its star customer Apple, but it is starting almost from scratch in the auto business.
The core of Foxconn's business is in Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan province in central China, known as "iPhone City." That's where a network of suppliers, infrastructure and factories, and sometimes as many as 250,000 Foxconn employees, manufacture most of the world's iPhones for Apple.
Now Foxconn, a Taiwanese electronics giant, is planning to build a new, 700-acre campus in Zhengzhou to make electric cars.
The question is, who will be the customers?
In February, Apple canceled its long standing project to develop electric cars after plowing more than $ 10 billion into it. Many of its rivals in China have charged ahead.
For Foxconn, the investment in Zhengzhou is part of a broader push to reduce its dependence on Apple. Sales of iPhones in China have slumped, and Apple and other American device makers have shifted some manufacturing to other countries.
Foxconn plans to make cars designed and sold by other companies, the way it has made iPhones for Apple. So far it has won orders from Luxgen, a subsidiary of a Taiwanese automaker it has partnered with to make a limited number of buses and cars.
"They need a breakthrough, which means finding a major customer," said Kirk Yang, the chairman of private equity firm Kirkland Capital.
Foxconn has set out to become a major player in a crowded field.
Over 130 companies sold electric vehicles in China last year, said Stephen Dyer, head of Asia Automotive at AlixPartners. The firm expects fewer than 20 of them will be profitable by the end of the decade.
The United States and the European Union have set steep tariffs to keep Chinese electric cars out. The intense competition has sparked a price war that has pushed even Tesla, the American company that is a leading manufacturer and seller of E.V.s in China, to discount.
And in China, the line between smartphone makers and car companies has increasingly blurred. Huawei and Xiaomi, two of the companies that have eclipsed Apple among the country's best selling smartphone brands, already sell electric cars. Days after Foxconn announced its investment in the Zhengzhou electric vehicle facility, Xiaomi broke ground on its second.
Foxconn executives say that the factors that enabled the company to make iPhones faster and at a lower cost than its competitors will translate to success in the auto industry.
That includes the manufacturing power and government support the company has built up in Zhengzhou. Perks like roads, power plants and tax breaks played a central role in Foxconn's success as an Apple supplier. When a Covid-19 outbreak threatened output ahead of the 2022 holiday shopping season, local officials pitched in to keep the iPhones moving off the factory floor.
But analysts question whether manufacturing power will be enough to help Foxconn stand out in China's crowded market.
"What's leading Chinese E.V. players to win in the market is not necessarily manufacturing, it's more about the software and technology that they are offering to consumers," said Mr. Dyer, who was previously an executive at Ford Motor in Shanghai.
And when it comes to cars, reliability and safety matter to customers as much as low prices. "If a consumer electronic device crashes, it crashes," said Mr. Yang. "But a car malfunction can be fatal."
Foxconn has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in E.V.-related manufacturing in Southeast Asia. It plans to make batteries and car parts in Thailand and Vietnam and microchips for cars in Malaysia. It has plans to be involved in a multibillion-dollar battery project in Indonesia, along with a number of other companies including a state-owned coal firm. The company is also in negotiations with two Japanese carmakers to make their vehicles.
At an old General Motors plant in Ohio that it bought from Lordstown Motors, which filed for bankruptcy last year, Foxconn makes a small number of electric buses.
At home in Taiwan in 2021, Foxconn set up a joint venture with the Taiwanese carmaker Yulon Motor to make luxury sedans, sport utility vehicles and buses under the name Foxtron. On Wednesday, Foxconn said it had delivered 5,400 cars for Yulon this year.
Foxconn's limited output to date is not near the scale it would take to compete with China's top electric car makers.
"You can hand build those at that volume," said Tu Le, a managing director of the consultancy Sino Auto Insights.
Photograph Foxconn has as many as 250,000 employees working to manufacture most of the world's iPhones in Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan province in central China. The company has set out to become a major player in the crowded electric vehicle field, with plans to make cars designed and sold by other companies, the way it has made iPhones for Apple, at its new, 700-acre campus in the city (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RITCHIE B TONGO/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; VISUAL CHINA GROUP, VIA GETTY IMAGES) This article appeared in print on page B5.

Subject: Automobiles; Smartphones; Manufacturing; Electric vehicles; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Manufacturing Factories

Location: China; Taiwan

Company / organization: Name: Foxconn Electronics Inc; NAICS: 334418

Title: Taiwan Electronics Giant Will Build an Electric Car Factory Near Its iPhone Hub:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Aug 15, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3093014856

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/taiwan-electronics-giant-will-build-electric-car/docview/3093014856/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Aug 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-08-22

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

As Driverless Cars Enjoy State Support, Chinese Media Censors Safety Incidents: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-driverless-cars-enjoy-state-support-chinese/docview/3068300947/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Computer-aided driving has official support and public acceptance, but state media seldom reports crashes or safety incidents, and online posts are censored.
Images of the burned vehicle flew through the Chinese internet: An Aito M7 Plus electric sport utility vehicle, operated by an advanced assisted driving system, had crashed on a highway in Shanxi Province on April 26.
A woman who said her husband, brother and son had been killed posted videos online and pleaded for an investigation. All of her postings soon vanished, and she said she would not discuss it further.
A Chinese business news outlet published a lengthy online investigation that questioned the safety of assisted driving systems. But that soon disappeared, too.
State-run national media refrained from covering the crash for nine days after it happened. Then they posted a statement from Aito Car, a Chinese brand, that disavowed responsibility. The statement said that the car's automated braking system had been designed for speeds up to 53 miles an hour, but the car was going 71 when it hit the back of a road maintenance vehicle.
In the United States, a similar crash would probably have attracted considerable attention and possibly government or legal scrutiny. The main companies using computer-guided driving technology in the United States -- Tesla, Waymo and Cruise -- have all been subjects of high-profile safety investigations.
Waymo, which was started as Google's self-driving division, has been testing driverless cars in Phoenix but faces a review by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. General Motors has resumed testing its Cruise robot taxis in Phoenix, after one of them in San Francisco dragged a pedestrian who had been knocked into its path by a human-driven car.
Far less public and official scrutiny exists in China, where the government strongly backs the technology and tightly limits public information about accidents. The Ministry of Transport issued safety rules in December that are designed to foster a broad shift from people to computers in car driving.
"The development environment of my country's autonomous driving industry is becoming increasingly perfect, providing possibilities for the implementation of autonomous driving vehicles," Wang Xianjin, the ministry's deputy research director, told the official Xinhua news agency.
The government has not issued statistics on safety incidents involving driverless cars or advanced assisted-driving technologies, like automated lane changes and obstacle avoidance on highways. Chinese car industry executives say these technologies are safe.
The tech giant Baidu, which works with automakers, is testing its own fleet of driverless taxis in the city of Wuhan.
"Small scratches and dents are inevitable, but we have never had any major casualties," Wang Yunpeng, president of Baidu's intelligent driving business group, said in a speech.
Over two days last month, I went for six rides in Baidu robot taxis in Wuhan. On one of the trips, with no safety driver ready to take over, the vehicle slowed nearly to a stop in fast-moving traffic on the upper deck of an expressway bridge high above the Yangtze River.
The car was trying to move from the center lane to the right lane, in preparation for an exit. The driver of a blue car in the right lane that was slightly behind my car began slowing to let my car in front of it. But my car also kept slowing. It started beeping its horn automatically to yield the right of way, instead of accelerating to enter the adjacent lane. Both cars kept slowing until they were barely moving.
A third car, moving at highway speed, whipped around both cars. The robot taxi finally inched slowly into the right lane ahead of the blue car and then accelerated before taking the next exit from the bridge as planned.
I asked Baidu if it could look into what might have gone wrong. A spokeswoman said that the incident was an unusual circumstance and that drivers in Wuhan were seldom so willing to yield the right of way. She said the company would study the incident and consider whether to adjust the algorithms that control its driverless cars.
Many drivers in Wuhan are indeed fairly aggressive. I saw a different robot taxi stop at a pedestrian crossing to allow people to walk across the street, only for motorists to blow their horns impatiently.
A year ago in Suzhou, I took a 10-minute journey in a robot taxi operated by a Chinese start-up. The taxi incorrectly made three emergency stops. But though my colleagues and I were thrown forward against our seatbelts, there were no collisions or injuries.
A safety driver who was in the car with us explained that cautiously programmed software had wrongly identified pedestrians or parked cars as being about to enter the car's path.
Numerous government ministries and other agencies have claimed a role in the development of self-driving cars. But none have direct responsibility for regulating their safety.
Chinese companies have done extensive experiments to gather data on how autonomous cars interact with pedestrians, who are far more numerous in Chinese cities than in most American cities. At a former steel mill on the northwest outskirts of Beijing that is now a public park, Baidu is running a three-year experiment in which robot taxis slowly and carefully maneuver through crowds of people.
An interagency task force led by the Ministry of Transport set a few broad rules for safety last December. Most robot taxis are no longer required to have safety drivers, but one remote operator must be assigned for every three vehicles. The task force has deferred more detailed rule making until the start of 2026.
Companies are trying to make as much progress as possible before that deadline, so they can influence the shape of the final rules. Whoever develops the most used system could reap a bonanza.
The cost of assisted driving and driverless systems lies mostly in developing them, not in manufacturing them. Whoever sells the most can spread development costs widely.
Yet safety concerns persist in China. A news outlet in Hainan Province posted an article at the top of its website on June 7. The article described how a Xiaomi SU7 electric sedan with an advanced assisted-driving system seemed to have accelerated out of control, killing one person and injuring three. Within three hours the article was fourth in a national ranking of most-viewed news items.
Xiaomi soon issued a statement saying there was nothing wrong with the car that crashed. The article suggesting otherwise then disappeared from China's internet, except for a few screenshots taken by internet users.
Li You contributed research.
Li You contributed research.
Photograph A Baidu robot taxi travels in Wuhan with a safety driver. These safety drivers are no longer required in most driverless taxis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page A5.

Subject: Robots; Internet; Task forces; Automation; Automobile drivers; Pedestrians; Traffic accidents & safety; Autonomous vehicles; Roads & highways

Business indexing term: Subject: Automation

Location: China; United States--US

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/13/business/china-driverless-car-safety.html

Title: As Driverless Cars Enjoy State Support, Chinese Media Censors Safety Incidents:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.5

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Jun 15, 2024

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3068300947

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-driverless-cars-enjoy-state-support-chinese/docview/3068300947/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Jun 15, 2024

Last updated: 2024-06-15

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The West Doesn't Grasp How Much Russia Has Changed: [Op-Ed]

Author: Gabuev, Alexander

Publication info: Gabuev, Alexander. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/west-doesnt-grasp-how-much-russia-has-changed/docview/3055728349/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Vladimir Putin's trip to Beijing this week, where he will meet with Xi Jinping and top Chinese officials, is another clear demonstration of the current closeness between Russia and China.
Yet many in the West still want to believe that their alliance is an aberration, driven by Mr. Putin's emotional anti-Americanism and his toxic fixation on Ukraine. Once Mr. Putin and his dark obsessions are out of the picture, the thinking goes, Moscow will seek to rebuild ties with the West -- not least because the bonds between Russia and China are shallow, while the country has centuries of economic and cultural dependence on Europe.
This wishful view, however appealing, overlooks the transformation of Russia's economy and society. Never since the fall of the Soviet Union has Russia been so distant from Europe, and never in its entire history has it been so entwined with China. The truth is that after two years of war in Ukraine and painful Western sanctions, it's not just Mr. Putin who needs China -- Russia does, too.
China has emerged as Russia's single most important partner, providing a lifeline not only for Mr. Putin's war machine but also for the entire embattled economy. In 2023, Russia's trade with China hit a record $ 240.1 billion, up by more than 60 percent from prewar levels, as China accounted for 30 percent of Russia's exports and nearly 40 percent of its imports.
Before the war, Russia's trade with the European Union was double that with China; now it's less than half. The Chinese yuan, not the dollar or the euro, is now the main currency used for trade between the two countries, making it the most traded currency on the Moscow stock exchange and the go-to instrument for savings.
This economic dependence is filtering into everyday life. Chinese products are ubiquitous and over half of the million cars sold in Russia last year were made in China. Tellingly, the top six foreign car brands in Russia are now all Chinese, thanks to the exodus of once dominant Western companies. It's a similar story in the smartphone market, where China's Xiaomi and Tecno have eclipsed Apple and Samsung, and with home appliances and many other everyday items.
These shifts are tectonic. Even in czarist times, Russia shipped its commodities to Europe and relied on imports from the West of manufactured goods. Russia's oligarchs, blacklisted by most Western countries, have had to adapt to the new reality. Last month, the businessman Vladimir Potanin, whose fortune is estimated at $ 23.7 billion, announced that his copper and nickel empire would reorient toward China, including by moving production facilities into the country. "If we're more integrated into the Chinese economy," he said, "we'll be more protected."
From the economy, education follows. Members of the Russian elite are scrambling to find Mandarin tutors for their kids, and some of my Russian contacts are thinking about sending their children to universities in Hong Kong or mainland China now that Western universities are much harder to reach. This development is more than anecdotal. Last year, as China opened up after the pandemic, 12,000 Russian students went to study there -- nearly four times as many than to the United States.
This reorientation from West to East is also visible among the middle class, most notably in travel. There are now, for example, five flights a day connecting Moscow and Beijing in under eight hours, with a return ticket costing about $ 500. By contrast, getting to Berlin -- one of many frequent European weekend destinations for middle-class Russians before the war -- can now take an entire day and cost up to twice as much.
What's more, European cities are being replaced as Russian tourist destinations by Dubai, Baku in Azerbaijan and Istanbul, while business trips are increasingly to China, Central Asia or the Gulf. Locked out of much of the West, which scrapped direct flights to Russia and significantly reduced the availability of visas for Russians, middle-class Russians are going elsewhere.
Intellectuals are turning toward China, too. Russian scientists are beginning to work with and for Chinese companies, especially in fields such as space exploration, artificial intelligence and biotech. Chinese cultural influence is also growing inside Russia. With Western writers like Stephen King and Neil Gaiman withdrawing the rights to publish their work in Russia, publishers are expanding their rosters of Chinese works. Supported by lavish grants for translators from the Chinese government, this effort is set to bring about a boom in Chinese books.
Chinese culture will not replace Western culture as Russians' main reference point any time soon. But a profound change has taken place. From the other side of the Iron Curtain, Europe was seen as a beacon of human rights, prosperity and technological development, a space that many Soviet citizens aspired to be part of.
Now a growing number of educated Russians, on top of feeling bitterness toward Europe for its punitive sanctions, see China as a technologically advanced and economically superior power to which Russia is ever more connected. With no easy way back to normal ties with the West, that's unlikely to change anytime soon.
In his dystopian novel "Day of the Oprichnik," Vladimir Sorokin describes a deeply anti-Western Russia of 2028 that survives on Chinese technology while cosplaying the medieval brutality of Ivan the Terrible's era. With every passing day, this unsettling and foresighted novel -- published in 2006 as a warning to Russia about the direction of travel under Mr. Putin -- reads more and more like the news.
Alexander Gabuev (@AlexGabuev) is the director of the Carnegie Russia Eurasia Center in Berlin.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com .
Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads .
This article appeared in print on page A22.

Subject: International trade; Middle class; Culture; Social conditions & trends

Business indexing term: Subject: International trade

Location: China; Beijing China; Russia; Ukraine; Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/15/opinion/putin-china-xi-jinping.html

Title: The West Doesn't Grasp How Much Russia Has Changed:   [Op-Ed ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.22

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 17, 2024

column: Guest Essay

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: Commentary, Opinions

ProQuest document ID: 3055728349

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/west-doesnt-grasp-how-much-russia-has-changed/docview/3055728349/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 17, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-17

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

China's E.V. Innovations Worry Rivals Elsewhere: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinas-e-v-innovations-worry-rivals-elsewhere/docview/3050778844/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: More capable autonomous driving is just one way Chinese automakers are threatening to pull ahead -- their E.V.s are also becoming bigger and roomier.
Automakers in China are building a new generation of bigger, more technologically advanced and competitive electric cars, threatening to leap further ahead of their global rivals as they step up exports around the world.
The dozens of car companies operating in China plan to put 71 new battery electric models on sale this year. Many new models have taller hoods for a bolder appearance and more storage space. The cars have bigger tires that improve braking. The seats are thicker and more comfortable. The batteries are ever smaller, more powerful and quicker to recharge.
The changes are aimed at making the cars even more appealing for customers in China and more competitive abroad. Along with plug-in hybrid cars, battery electric cars are taking sales away from gasoline-powered cars and their manufacturers.
China is also moving ahead with the technology and regulations for self-driving cars. The authorities approved data security arrangements this week for more capable autonomous vehicles. They approved cars from Tesla, the American electric vehicle company that also builds and sells cars in China, as well as five Chinese manufacturers, including BYD, Tesla's principal global rival, and Nio, a longtime player in China's auto sector.
The approvals show the Chinese government's eagerness to push the development of self-driving vehicles, which are widely seen as central to future competitiveness in the car industry. The technology is more compatible with battery electric cars than with plug-in hybrids or gasoline-powered cars, and Chinese companies are trying to catch up with Tesla, the leader in these systems.
In the United States, Tesla's so-called Autopilot feature has been the subject of a series of government safety investigations. But in China, regulators and the general public have tended to see the technology as safer than relying on human drivers.
Chinese automakers have been investing heavily in driver-assistance software. An electric car "is becoming a robot on wheels," said Frank Wu, the vice president of design at Jiyue. The company is a joint venture of Zhejiang Geely, a Chinese automaker, and Baidu, one of China's main artificial intelligence companies and Tesla's partner in its self-driving efforts in China.
Better batteries and falling costs underpin China's push in electric cars. CATL, based in southeastern China and the world's largest manufacturer of electric car batteries, announced last week at the Beijing auto show that a 10-minute charge of its newest battery would give a range of 370 miles. A 30-minute full charge would give a range of 620 miles, the company said.
Achieving these distances involves extremely high-precision chemistry and engineering and "putting each nano-particle in the right place," said Gao Huan, the chief technology officer of CATL's electric car business.
The advances have meant automakers can use smaller batteries, freeing up space in cars' interiors, or they can keep the battery the same size and achieve greater range.
Much of the extra space is going into larger back seats with more legroom.
"We're going to put more focus on the backseat -- we want to make it more appealing," said Wang Tan, the general manager of design at XPeng Motors, a Chinese electric car manufacturer.
Manufacturers of electric vehicles used to put a priority on keeping cars as light as possible, because weight is what mostly matters for how far a car can go before needing a recharge. But more powerful batteries now allow electric vehicles to be taller and heavier.
Bigger front ends create a luxurious appearance that taps into many buyers' admiration of sport utility vehicles, said Kris Tomasson, vice president of design at Nio.
"A higher front has that prestige," he said.
Chinese automakers are also embracing designs with more edges, like a blue-green Denza Z9GT sedan displayed at the show by BYD. They are shifting away from lightweight but costly aluminum and building cars with a higher proportion of slightly heavier but cheaper steel alloys.
Aluminum body panels need to be more curved and do not allow for the sharper lines possible with a return to steel, said Stefan Sielaff, Geely's vice president of global design. The effect is to make the cars more visually striking as automotive fashions shift away from the rounded shapes on previous electric cars.
Customers overseas as well as in China are getting pickier. Many are buying plug-in hybrids instead of cars powered only by batteries, although the markets for both are still growing in China.
Not all the electric cars at the Beijing show are bigger and roomier. Xiaomi, a Chinese producer of inexpensive smartphones, displayed its first electric car, the SU7 sports sedan. The tech company has made a move into the car market that Apple has mulled for many years without undertaking.
The SU7 looks almost identical from the outside to a Porsche Taycan electric car. But it costs less than a fifth of a Taycan, which ranges in China from $ 140,000 to $ 275,000.
Lei Jun, the chief executive of Xiaomi, was followed by a crowd of admirers as he walked around the auto show.
He exuded confidence in a speech at the SU7 introduction while still expressing worry about one rival. "Except Tesla, there seems to be hardly anyone better than us," he said.
Chinese auto executives consistently express a mixture of respect and fear of Tesla, an automaker that did not introduce any new cars at the show. Last week, Tesla announced a 9 percent fall in sales and a 55 percent drop in profits in the first quarter of this year, and plans to lay off more than a tenth of its worldwide employees, or 14,000 people.
Long-established Western automakers, by contrast, lag in autonomous driving and are struggling to catch up in electric cars.
General Motors and Ford Motor have lost much of their market share in China over the past five years. Ford introduced the most-talked-about car at the Beijing auto show in 2020, the Mustang Mach-E electric car. But administrative problems led to more than a year of production delays, and public interest evaporated.
Ford decided this year to emphasize very different Mustangs, equipped with hulking five-liter V-8 gasoline engines and four exhaust pipes.
Bill Russo, a former chief executive of Chrysler China who is now an electric car industry consultant in Shanghai, said Tesla had emerged as the sole strong global contender from the United States in the electric vehicle market.
"If they ever died, the whole E.V. market dies with it in the United States," he said.
Established companies in Europe also face formidable challenges. China's electric car exports to Europe are climbing, prompting a European Union investigation into whether they are unfairly subsidized.
Ralf Brandstätter, the chief executive of Volkswagen China, called for Chinese manufacturers to buy car parts in Europe and assemble them there using European workers.
"Then they have to handle a European labor force, European enterprises, and they have to compete in the same environment as we are competing," he said. China has used steep tariffs and other measures to require that multinationals make cars in China for the Chinese market.
Chinese E.V.s are going next to the United States.
Geely is exporting its Polestar 2 to the United States from China, and paying a 27.5 percent tariff to do so. It is also beginning to export its new Polestar 3, before a planned shift of production to an assembly line being completed this summer in South Carolina.
Li You and Joy Dong contributed research.
Li You and Joy Dong contributed research.
Photograph Plans for XPeng Motors models include "focus on the back seat," with more legroom, a design manager said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLES SABRIÉ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Nio's display at the Beijing Auto Show, above. Authorities approved data security arrangements for more capable autonomous vehicles from Nio and other carmakers. At left, CATL's headquarters in Ningde, China. CATL said a 10-minute charge of its newest battery would give a range of 370 miles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIÉ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) This article appeared in print on page B1, B2.

Subject: Automobile shows; Aluminum; Automobile industry; Automotive engineering; Electric vehicles; Autonomous vehicles; Steel alloys; Innovations

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry

Location: China; Beijing China; United States--US; Europe

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/01/business/china-electric-vehicles.html

Title: China's E.V. Innovations Worry Rivals Elsewhere:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 6, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3050778844

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinas-e-v-innovations-worry-rivals-elsewhere/docview/3050778844/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 6, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-06

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

TikTok's Boss Takes On a Flashy Gig: [Style Desk]

Author: Bernstein, Jacob; Madison Malone Kircher; Maheshwari, Sapna

Publication info: Bernstein, Jacob; Madison Malone Kircher; Maheshwari, Sapna. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktoks-boss-takes-on-flashy-gig/docview/3050610891/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: With the company facing a ban in the U.S., Shou Chew is expected to join Zendaya, Bad Bunny and Anna Wintour on the red carpet.
Although the Met Gala serves as a branding event for Vogue, it has long accepted sponsorships from the tech giants that have threatened the very survival of legacy media publications.
Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder, appeared as the ball's honorary chair in 2012. Four years later, when Apple was a Met Gala sponsor, its chief executive, Tim Cook, showed up in tux and tails. And Instagram supplied cash in 2022.
The 2024 event is sponsored, in part, by TikTok, the social media goliath whose future looks murkier than that of Condé Nast, the publisher of Vogue, The New Yorker and other magazines, which has laid off employees and shuttered or sold off some of its publications in recent years.
TikTok found itself in jeopardy last month, when President Biden signed a bill that gave ByteDance, the Chinese company that owns TikTok, nine months to sell off the app or face a ban in the United States. In the wake of that political firestorm, Shou Chew, the 41-year-old chief executive of TikTok, is expected to join dozens of celebrity guests at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in Manhattan on Monday evening.
He was selected by Anna Wintour as an honorary chair for the benefit, which raises tens of millions of dollars each year for the museum's Costume Institute. Ms. Wintour, the global editorial director of Condé Nast and the editor in chief of Vogue, has run the event for a quarter of a century, using her sense of celebrity and fashion synergy to create a splashy showcase of some of the world's most influential people, a group that has come to include more social media influencers and fewer one-name stars (Beyoncé, Lady Gaga, Madonna) in recent years.
TikTok may be loathed by Washington lawmakers who have raised concerns about the Chinese government's access to its 170 millions users in the United States, but it remains an undeniable cultural force in American life, especially among Gen Z. The app is also a fashion force, and the Met Gala provides many TikTok creators with plenty of fodder. That makes the little-known Mr. Chew at least as powerful as the much more recognizable co-chairs of this year's party -- Zendaya, Jennifer Lopez, Bad Bunny, Chris Hemsworth and Ms. Wintour herself.
Along with TikTok, the luxury fashion brand Loewe is a sponsor; its creative director, Jonathan Anderson, will serve alongside Mr. Chew as an honorary chair.
TikTok declined to reveal its financial contribution to the star-studded event. In previous years, a sponsor is known to have kicked in roughly $ 5 million.
Mr. Bezos and Mr. Cook were known quantities when they greeted the likes of Rihanna and Beyoncé at previous Met Galas. Mr. Chew, on the other hand, is likely to go unrecognized by most of the gawkers who line up behind the barricades along Fifth Avenue, many of whom may be making TikTok videos on their phones.
A Charm Offensive
Starting in 2022, when U.S. lawmakers were turning up the heat on TikTok, the company changed its public relations strategy. Instead of keeping a low profile, it embarked on a charm offensive, with the fresh-faced Shou (pronounced "show") Chew front and center.
As TikTok plowed millions into its lobbying efforts, Mr. Chew met with the heads of think tanks in Washington and global leaders at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. At The New York Times's DealBook conference in November 2022, he fielded questions about national security concerns while wearing jeans, a casual blue blazer over a white T-shirt, and white sneakers that looked fresh out of the box.
His expected appearance at the Met Gala -- once a staid affair for New York blue bloods that has become an East Coast Oscars on Ms. Wintour's watch -- can be viewed as part of TikTok's shift in how it presents itself to the public. But this time around, instead of sitting down with those who have influence over matters of policy, the TikTok chief will be standing on a red carpet before a squadron of photographers.
Mr. Chew, who declined through a TikTok representative to be interviewed for this article, grew up in Singapore. That is where he has his main residence with his wife, Vivian Kao, 42, a onetime Goldman Sachs associate, and their three children. In 2021, the couple spent more than $ 60 million on a house in the Queen Astrid Park area of the island nation, according to The Business Times of Singapore.
The family is intensely private. A rare glimpse of Ms. Kao and one of their children appeared in a video that Mr. Chew posted on TikTok from a recent Taylor Swift concert at Singapore National Stadium.
Mr. Chew has said that his father worked in construction and that his mother was a bookkeeper. After attending one of Singapore's top secondary schools, he completed two years of mandatory national service in the Singapore Armed Forces, where he was an officer. From there, he enrolled at University College London.
After graduating in 2006 with a degree in economics, he took a job in the London office of Goldman Sachs. That was where he met Nathalie du Preez, who remains a friend of his.
"We sat on the same floor, and he was walking past," Ms. du Preez recalled in a phone interview.
In an early conversation, they found that they had both applied to Harvard Business School. They took coffee breaks together at Leonidas Chocolates around the corner from the office.
When they arrived at Harvard in the fall of 2008, Ms. du Preez and Mr. Chew shared a ride with a group of people bound for Ikea. They were just two of the many students on the lookout for reasonably priced home décor items.
"He's come a long way since then," she said.
Ms. du Preez and several other Harvard Business School classmates interviewed for this article recalled Mr. Chew as someone who was funny, although they could not recall a specific funny thing he had said. They also agreed that he was razor-sharp, but offered no particular examples of his acuity.
They described him as curious about pop culture and sports, saying he was a fan of Manchester United and recalling that he had attended a David Guetta show at the Roxy in Boston. They mentioned that he liked video games, including the soccer game FIFA, and noted that he was the tidiest of his roommates.
Mr. Chew met the woman who would become his wife, Ms. Kao, when they were both at Harvard Business School. A graduate of Wellesley College, she had grown up in Bethesda, Md., and is Taiwanese American.
Mr. Chew and Ms. Kao found themselves in business school as the financial crisis arrived. "We called it the 'just in time' admissions class, because the markets crashed that fall," Caren Kelleher, a fellow classmate, said in an interview.
Although it was a time when big banks were failing, some of Mr. Chew's fellow business students were surprised when he took a summer internship at Facebook, rather than going into finance. The social media company was only five years old and years away from going public.
His classmates later realized he had made a prescient choice, according to Jean Abillama, who lived across the street from Mr. Chew in Cambridge, Mass. "He was seeing this big wave of tech and e-commerce, the tech wave coming to light," she said.
Master's degree in hand, he joined DST Global, a venture capital firm led by Yuri Milner, a Russian billionaire who was on his way to becoming one of the most important private investors in Silicon Valley companies. Mr. Chew served as Mr. Milner's point man in China, where he helped lead investments in Alibaba and the Chinese ride-sharing service DiDi.
During that time, Mr. Milner provided a reported $ 10 million in financing to a news-aggregation app founded by the entrepreneur Zhang Yiming, who developed a rapport with Mr. Chew. The app would become ByteDance. Mr. Chew also helped with DST Global's investment in Xiaomi, one of China's largest phone manufacturers.
In 2013, Mr. Chew and Ms. Kao were married. Two years later, Mr. Chew left DST to become the chief financial officer of Xiaomi, which he helped take public in 2018.
He Got the Job
Mr. Chew was named the chief financial officer of ByteDance in March 2021. He ascended to the top TikTok job two months later. In November of that year, he stepped down as ByteDance's chief financial officer.
TikTok's previous chief executive, Kevin Mayer, had resigned after less than four months on the job, citing the increasing pressure put on the company by the Trump administration because of its ties to China.
The opposition of U.S. lawmakers did not abate during the presidency of Joseph R. Biden Jr. As Mr. Chew worked to keep lawmakers at bay, he found time to attend the 2022 Met Gala with Ms. Kao. He went all-out formal, in traditional white tie and tails; she wore a resplendent floral-patterned gown.
Nowadays, Ms. Kao runs Tamarind Global, a family office that, according to its website, "manages investments and philanthropy" for a "Singaporean family." Its shareholders include Mr. Chew and a trust linked to Mr. Chew and Ms. Kao, according to public records.
There has been debate about whether Mr. Chew -- who travels with a small security detail -- is the controlling force at TikTok. Company sources have told The Times that major strategic decisions were handled by Mr. Yiming, among others.
Mr. Chew displayed a sense of fun in his TikTok handle -- @shou.time -- which riffs on the pronunciation of his first name. But the account did not have much of a following until March 2023, when he was grilled by Congress.
Under aggressive questioning, Mr. Chew was made to repeat that he was a citizen of Singapore, not China. He went on to stress that TikTok was not controlled by the Chinese Communist Party and noted that his wife is an American, telling his questioners, "By the way, she was just born a few miles away from here."
That was the appearance that catapulted him into public consciousness. Before the hearing, he had fewer than 20,000 TikTok followers. He now has 3.9 million.
Users posted clips highlighting belligerent questions from lawmakers. A number of TikTokers even called Mr. Chew "zaddy," a slang term that refers to an older, attractive man.
On Nov. 8, 2023, TikTok announced that it would serve as "the lead sponsor" of this year's Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit, the formal name of the Met Gala. Days after the announcement, Vogue Singapore published a rare sit-down interview with Mr. Chew.
He was photographed in Louis Vuitton jeans and a velvet Brunello Cucinelli blazer, and he spoke benignly about his mandatory service in Singapore's armed forces in "the jungles of Brunei" and doing diaper duty for a third time. "There's quite an age gap between this kid and the previous kid," he said in the interview. "My wife and I are relearning everything, like changing diapers."
Along with other top tech executives, Mr. Chew was called before Congress again in January. He stressed that he did not live in China and said he was not a member of the Chinese Communist Party.
While turning down interview requests from news organizations digging into TikTok's Chinese ties, Mr. Chew gave an interview to another Condé Nast publication, Wired, during a TikTok music festival in Mesa, Ariz., in December 2023.
The Wired article largely kept the focus on TikTok's pop-culture footprint while seeming to defend it against its American critics by arguing that "a thinly veiled anti-Chinese xenophobia has become a reliable part of the U.S. political playbook." It also included an advance plug for Mr. Chew's appearance at the Met Gala.
"It's very cultural," Mr. Chew told Wired. "Fashion is an incredibly important part of TikTok. Louis Vuitton has 12 million followers on our app." (The fashion house now has more than 13 million TikTok followers.)
Ms. du Preez, the Goldman Sachs colleague and Harvard classmate, said she was not surprised that Mr. Chew would be interested in teaming up with Vogue and Ms. Wintour, particularly at a time when the company he leads is trying to show that it is not controlled by China.
"The Met Gala is an incredibly well-followed evening," she said. "In terms of making friends in the U.S., I think it would make sense to do that, and everyone who is going will have a TikTok account."
Not that she expected him to pick out a memorable ensemble.
"I have no doubt Vivian will dress him in something beautiful," Ms. du Preez said. "And at this point he can get a lot of advice from anyone about what to wear. I'm sure Anna Wintour can give him tips."
For the record, Mr. Chew is slated to wear something from Ralph Lauren, the American designer whose fondness for red, white and blue has made him a natural choice to outfit U.S. Olympics teams in patriotic garb.
Ryan Mac contributed reporting. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Ryan Mac contributed reporting. Kirsten Noyes contributed research.
Photograph Shou Chew, the chief executive of TikTok, faced reporters and lawmakers last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAIYUN JIANG /THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1); Top, TikTok's chief executive, Shou Chew, left, and his wife, Vivian Kao, at the Met Gala as guests in 2022. This year, Mr. Chew is serving as one of the honorary chairs of the benefit event. Above, Mr. Chew wore less formal attire last year in Singapore at the offices of ByteDance, the Chinese company that owns TikTok. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE McCARTHY/GETTY IMAGES; ORE HUIYING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST14) This article appeared in print on page ST1, ST14.

Subject: Celebrities; Legislators; Business schools; Influencer marketing; Social networks; Art galleries & museums; Interviews; Corporate sponsorship

Business indexing term: Subject: Business schools Influencer marketing Social networks Art galleries & museums Corporate sponsorship

Location: New York; United States--US; Singapore; China

Company / organization: Name: TikTok Inc; NAICS: 518210; Name: Bytedance Ltd; NAICS: 513210, 518210; Name: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; NAICS: 523150; Name: Vogue; NAICS: 513120; Name: Harvard Business School; NAICS: 611310

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/03/style/met-gala-shou-chew-tiktok.html

Title: TikTok's Boss Takes On a Flashy Gig:   [Style Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: ST.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: May 5, 2024

Section: ST

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3050610891

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tiktoks-boss-takes-on-flashy-gig/docview/3050610891/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company May 5, 2024

Last updated: 2024-05-05

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

The Digest: [Business/Financial Desk]

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3039044228/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: RETAIL
Tapestry's Deal for Capri Clears Regulatory Hurdle
Tapestry's $ 8.5 billion deal to buy Capri Holdings has received regulatory clearance from the European Union and Japan, the companies said on Monday.
The merger, which would bring top labels such as Tapestry's Coach, Kate Spade, Stuart Weitzman and Capri's Michael Kors, Jimmy Choo and Versace under one roof, is still awaiting clearance from U.S. regulators. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission sought additional information on the planned merger from the two companies in November, months after the deal was announced.
A merger between the two companies would help Tapestry compete better with Paris-listed LVMH in the European luxury market, even as demand for expensive handbags and accessories remains choppy in the United States. The deal is expected to close this year and add to Tapestry's adjusted profits immediately, the companies said last year. REUTERS
TECHNOLOGY
Samsung Reclaims Spot as Top Maker of Phones
Apple's smartphone shipments dropped about 10 percent in the first quarter of 2024, with Samsung, at 20.8 percent market share, taking back the top phonemaker spot from Apple, according to data from the research firm IDC.
Global smartphone shipments increased 7.8 percent to 289.4 million units during January-March. South Korea's Samsung shipped more than 60 million phones during the period.
Apple's sales decline comes after its strong performance in the December quarter when it overtook Samsung as the world's No.1 phone maker. Now Apple is back to the second spot, with 17.3 percent market share, as Chinese brands such as Huawei gain market share.
Xiaomi, one of China's top smartphone makers, occupied the third position with a market share of 14.1 percent during the first quarter. REUTERS
AUTOMAKERS
G.M. Moves Headquarters Into Detroit's Downtown
General Motors is moving its headquarters deeper into downtown Detroit after spending more than 20 years in its riverfront home at the Renaissance Center, a person familiar with the matter said on Monday.
The Michigan automaker will now place its global headquarters a few blocks away from the so-called RenCen, in a sleek new high-rise building called Hudson's, which will be the second-tallest skyscraper in Detroit.
G.M. remains the only member of the Big Three automakers to have its headquarters in Detroit. Ford Motor's home base is nearby in Dearborn, and Chrysler parent Stellantis has its main North American office in Auburn Hills.
The GM headquarters -- with its glowing logo pasted atop one of the towers -- became an important part of Detroit's skyline. The move to this location was "a milestone that helped spark a downtown renaissance," the company says on its website. REUTERS
Credit: By Reuters
Photograph (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLEMENS BILAN/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) This article appeared in print on page B2.

Subject: Shipments; Automobile industry; Smartphones; Market shares

Business indexing term: Subject: Automobile industry Smartphones Market shares

Location: United States--US; Detroit Michigan

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/12/business/16bizdigest.html

Title: The Digest:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.2

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Apr 16, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3039044228

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/digest/docview/3039044228/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 16, 2024

Last updated: 2024-04-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Souring on Apple in China: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Tobin, Meaghan; Stevenson, Alexandra; Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Tobin, Meaghan; Stevenson, Alexandra; Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/souring-on-apple-china/docview/3002288475/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Apple has deep ties in the country, its second-largest market. But there are signs that Chinese consumers are becoming a harder sell.
For years, Apple dominated the market for high-end smartphones in China. No other company made a device that could compete with the iPhone's performance -- or its position as a status object in the eyes of wealthy, cosmopolitan shoppers.
But evidence is mounting that, for many in China, the iPhone no longer holds the appeal it used to. During the first six weeks of the year, historically a peak season for Chinese shoppers to spring for a new phone, iPhone sales fell 24 percent from a year earlier, according to Counterpoint Research, which analyzes the smartphone market.
Meanwhile, sales for one of Apple's longstanding Chinese rivals, Huawei, surged 64 percent.
It's a challenging time for Apple. Analysts say its latest product, a $ 3,500 virtual reality headset released in February, is still years away from gaining mainstream appeal. This month, Apple has taken two regulatory hits: a European Union fine of nearly $ 2 billion for anticompetitive music streaming practices and a U.S. government lawsuit claiming Apple violated antitrust laws.
For a decade, China has been the iPhone's most important market after the United States and accounted for roughly 20 percent of Apple's sales. Now the company's grip on China could be dislodged by a series of factors: a slowdown in consumer spending, growing pressure from Beijing for people to shun devices made by U.S. companies and the resurgence of national champion Huawei.
"The golden time for Apple in China is over," said Linda Sui, a senior director at TechInsights, a market research firm. One of the biggest reasons is the rising tension between the United States and China over trade and technology, Ms. Sui said. Without a significant lessening of geopolitical stress, it will be difficult for Apple to retain its position.
"It's not just about consumers," Ms. Sui said. "It's about the big picture, the two superpowers competing with each other -- that's a fundamental thing behind the whole shift."
Few American companies have more to lose from these heightened tensions than Apple, whose newest handset, the iPhone 15, went on sale in September. It is the first iPhone line to feature a titanium frame and include an action button that can be programmed to take photos or turn on the flashlight.
"Five years ago, Apple had really strong branding in China -- people would bring tents to wait through the whole night outside the Apple Store for the next product launch," said Lucas Zhong, a Shanghai-based analyst at Canalys, a market research firm. "The iPhone 15 launch wasn't nearly as popular."
Six months later, Apple has plastered billboards across cities like Shanghai, reminding residents they can still buy an iPhone 15 nearby. Similar promotions helped the iPhone account for four of the six top-selling smartphones in China in the final three months of last year, the company said during a call with Wall Street analysts. But the prominent advertising did not persuade Jason Li, 22, to visit the Apple Store on Nanjing East Road, in the heart of Shanghai's shopping district, when he needed to replace his iPhone 13 Pro Max.
Instead, Mr. Li went to the Huawei flagship store directly across the street, where he contemplated the Mate 60 Pro.
"I don't want to use iOS anymore," he said, referring to the iPhone's operating system. "It's a bit stale."
Apple declined to comment.
For some in China, buying a phone has become a political statement. Debates over whether using an iPhone is disrespectful to Chinese tech companies or akin to handing personal data over to the U.S. government have erupted online. Last year, employees at some Chinese government agencies reported being told not to use iPhones for work.
These directives surfaced less than two weeks after Huawei unveiled the Mate 60 Pro, a smartphone equipped with the company's own operating system and a computer chip more advanced than had previously been made in China.
Huawei released the device in the final days of a trip to China by Gina M. Raimondo, the U.S. commerce secretary. Chinese commentators and state media heralded it as a triumph for Huawei in the face of Washington's attempts to restrict the company from developing just such technology.
The Mate 60 Pro was an immediate sensation. Its boost to Huawei's sales carried over into the first six weeks of this year, when the company claimed the second-largest share of the smartphone market, up to 17 percent from 9 percent a year earlier, according to data from Counterpoint.
"Today, holding the Mate 60 series gives people a feeling like they had many years ago if someone saw them holding an iPhone on the street," said Ivan Lam, a senior analyst at Counterpoint Research in Hong Kong. This is especially true for people over 35, the age group that buys the most smartphones, he said.
China's smartphone market is divided up by a number of companies. The domestic brands Vivo, Oppo and Xiaomi jostle with Apple and Huawei for the largest pieces.
Apple started selling iPhones in China in 2009. The last time it was losing ground to Huawei, in 2019, the Trump administration inadvertently extended Apple a lifeline by restricting U.S. technology firms from dealing with Huawei. Google, which makes the Android operating system, and several semiconductor companies cut off their support of the Chinese smartphone maker.
As Huawei struggled, Apple rebounded. In 2022, its share of phones sold in China rose to 22 percent, from 9 percent in 2019, according to Counterpoint. Apple reported record revenue of $ 74 billion from the region during its fiscal year ending in September 2022.
But the restrictions also forced Huawei to develop its own wireless chip and operating system, resulting in the technology behind the Mate 60 Pro. The operating system has been a draw for Chinese shoppers, and many of China's biggest tech companies have made apps exclusively for it, further walling off users from platforms used outside China.
Huawei's innovation has made Apple's latest models appear stodgy by comparison. And as China's economy has struggled to rebound from the Covid pandemic, many consumers are hesitant to spend on what feels like an incremental upgrade. The owners of about 125 million out of 215 million iPhones in China have not upgraded to newer devices in the last three years, according to Daniel Ives, an Apple analyst at Wedbush Securities.
Apple has responded to the challenges in China. Its chief executive, Tim Cook, has traveled to the country and visited Apple's suppliers. Last week, he attended the splashy opening of an Apple Store near Shanghai's Jing'an Temple -- the company's eighth store in Shanghai and 57th in China -- to a crowd of Apple fans. The company also said it was expanding its research and development labs in Shanghai.
But for some shoppers, Apple's efforts have been overshadowed by Washington's approach to the company's Chinese rival.
While waiting at the Genius Bar for help with his ailing iPhone 12 at the Apple Store on Nanjing East Road in Shanghai, Chi Miaomiao, 38, said he had recently bought Huawei's Mate 60 Pro as his second phone. He was drawn to Huawei after its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, was arrested by the Canadian authorities in 2018 at the request of the United States, which accused her of misleading banks about Huawei's business in Iran. Ms. Meng's detention set off a flood of support in China, where many saw her as a hostage.
"Huawei is our own brand, and because of this political incident, I think we Chinese should be united," Mr. Chi said.
Upstairs on the Apple sales floor, Li Bin, 23, and two friends debated the latest iPhone models. Huawei and Apple were nearly comparable in quality, Mr. Li said, and though he thought the iPhone was slightly better, it was also more expensive.
"I may switch to an iPhone," Mr. Li said, "when I get richer in the future."
Li You and Zixu Wang contributed research.
Li You and Zixu Wang contributed research.
Photograph A transit station in Shanghai this month. While iPhone sales in China fell 24 percent early this year, sales by the domestic giant Huawei rose 64 percent. (B1); Lining up to buy the iPhone 15 in Shanghai in September. Six months later, billboards plastered across the city remind residents that the phone is for sale. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Operating systems; Consumers; Sales; Smartphones; Semiconductors; Research & development--R & D; Market research firms; Market research; Competition

Business indexing term: Subject: Consumers Sales Smartphones Market research firms Market research

Location: China; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Apple Store; NAICS: 449210; Name: Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; NAICS: 334111, 334210, 513210, 541511; Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111, 334220, 513210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/25/business/china-apple-iphones.html

Title: Souring on Apple in China:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Mar 28, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 3002288475

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/souring-on-apple-china/docview/3002288475/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Mar 28, 2024

Last updated: 2024-03-28

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

China's BYD Is Putting Tesla in Its Rearview: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinas-byd-is-putting-tesla-rearview/docview/2925371310/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: China's BYD was a battery manufacturer trying its hand at building cars when it showed off its newest model in 2007. American executives at the Guangzhou auto show gaped at the car's uneven purple paint job and the poor fit of its doors.
"They were the laughingstock of the industry," said Michael Dunne, a China auto industry analyst.
Nobody is laughing at BYD now.
The company passed Tesla in worldwide sales of fully electric cars late last year. BYD is building assembly lines in Brazil, Hungary, Thailand and Uzbekistan and preparing to do so in Indonesia and Mexico. It is rapidly expanding exports to Europe. And the company is on the cusp of passing Volkswagen Group, which includes Audi, as the market leader in China.
BYD's sales, over 80 percent of them in China, have grown by about a million cars in each of the past two years. The last automaker to accomplish that in even one year in the American market was General Motors -- and that was in 1946, after G.M. had suspended passenger car sales during the four preceding years because of World War II.
"BYD's growth is unlike anything the industry has seen in many decades," said Matt Anderson, curator of transportation at the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich.
Based in Shenzhen, the hub of China's electronics industry, BYD has shown how Chinese carmakers can tap the country's dominance of electrical products. No company has benefited as much from China's embrace of battery-electric cars and plug-in gasoline-electric cars. These vehicles together make up 40 percent of China's car market, the world's largest, and are expected to be more than half next year. Like most Chinese automakers, BYD doesn't sell its cars in America because Trump-era tariffs remain in place, but BYD does sell buses in the United States.
BYD is leading China's export push in electric cars, and is rapidly building the world's largest car carrier ships to transport them. The first of the ships, the BYD Explorer No. 1, is on its maiden voyage from Shenzhen with 5,000 electric cars on board, and is expected to arrive in the Netherlands by Feb. 21.
With China's and BYD's success has come more scrutiny.
Elon Musk, the chief executive of Tesla, warned about the strength of Chinese electric car exports in a company earnings call in January. "Frankly, I think if there are not trade barriers established, they will pretty much demolish most other companies in the world," he said.
The rapid gains by BYD and other Chinese automakers in Europe have prompted a European Union investigation of Chinese government subsidies and could result in tariffs. BYD's annual reports show a total of $ 2.6 billion in government assistance from 2008 through 2022. And that does not include other help, like making sure that taxi companies in BYD's hometown buy only BYD electric cars.
BYD declined to comment about subsidies. In a statement, the company said the BYD Explorer No. 1, its new ship, "signifies a significant milestone for BYD as it expands into international markets and contributes to the development of the global new-energy vehicle industry."
China has built enough factories to make more than twice as many cars as its market can buy. That has led to a price war in China, particularly between BYD and Tesla, with discounting that has inflicted heavy losses. One of BYD's newest models, the subcompact Seagull, starts at less than $ 11,000.
A real estate crisis and a falling stock market are now making Chinese consumers warier about buying a car at all. But BYD's low manufacturing costs have left it in a better position than most rivals to survive any long slowdown in sales and industry shakeout.
BYD's chairman, Wang Chuanfu, founded the company in 1995 to make batteries for Motorola and other consumer electronics companies. He had studied at Central South University in Changsha, an elite institution famed for battery chemistry research. But he dreamed of making cars.
In 2003, BYD bought a factory in Xi'an that was building gasoline-powered cars. But the company had trouble at the start, gaining an early reputation for building clunkers. In a visit to the factory in 2006, a large repair area at the end of the assembly line was clogged with newly built cars that already needed more work.
BYD's sales grew as the Chinese market soared. Warren E. Buffett bought a nearly 10 percent stake for $ 230 million in 2008, giving BYD not just a cash infusion but also global cachet. The same year, Mr. Wang promised to start exporting battery-electric cars to the United States within two years.
But electric cars at the time cost a lot to build and had limited range, and Mr. Wang had to scotch his plans to enter the American market. In an interview in 2011, he second-guessed his emphasis on battery-electric cars. Automakers should focus on gasoline-electric hybrids, he declared. He added, "There is still tremendous potential in the Chinese market for electric cars."
By 2012, car production in China had caught up with demand. Buyers became choosier. BYD's car sales and stock price plunged as multinationals offered more stylish models. Industry executives and analysts questioned whether BYD had a future.
But Mr. Wang proceeded to make two risky bets that paid off.
In 2016, he hired Wolfgang Egger, a prominent Audi designer, who in turn hired hundreds more car engineers with bold tastes. They completely redesigned BYD's models.
Mr. Wang also figured out how to replace the industry's standard chemicals in rechargeable lithium batteries -- nickel, cobalt and manganese -- with cheaper iron and phosphate. But early batteries made from the inexpensive chemical compounds ran out of juice quickly and had to be recharged after even short trips.
In 2020, BYD introduced its Blade batteries, which closed most of the so-called range gap with nickel-cobalt batteries at a fraction of what they cost.
Tesla began making and selling large numbers of cars in China the same year, and enthusiasm for electric cars swept the nation. BYD was ready with inexpensive battery chemistries and Mr. Egger's new designs.
Tesla also began using lithium iron phosphate batteries in less expensive models. BYD still sells mostly cheaper cars with lower range, while Tesla mostly sells costlier cars with more range.
The Swiss bank UBS found last year that a BYD Seal electric hatchback sedan cost 35 percent less to make than a slightly smaller Volkswagen ID.3 of similar quality made in Europe. The savings came only partly from the cheaper lithium iron phosphate batteries.
BYD makes three-quarters of the Seal's parts. Like Tesla, BYD uses only a few electronic systems in each car. By contrast, VW outsources up to two-thirds of its components. BYD also has benefited from lower labor costs in China, although those have risen as factories compete to hire skilled workers.
BYD now has its own walled town in Shenzhen, a southeastern city next to Hong Kong. An airport-style monorail carries workers from 18-story company apartments to BYD's office towers and research labs.
Liu Qiangqiang, an engineer at the Shenzhen center, said the staff of his car development team had almost tripled since he joined the company from General Motors 15 months ago.
"The pace is fast," he said.
After dismissing autonomous driving a year ago, BYD swung into action when the consumer electronics companies Huawei and Xiaomi introduced cars with considerable autonomous driving abilities. Mr. Wang announced in January that BYD had 4,000 engineers working on assisted driving, a limited form of autonomous technology that works mainly on highways and large roads, and would invest $ 14 billion in the technology.
BYD has a lingering advantage over Tesla: Mr. Wang's decision by 2011 to develop plug-in hybrid cars, which account for nearly half of BYD's sales.
Li Jingyu, a salesman at a BYD dealership in Shenzhen, said many families bought a hybrid as their first car so they could drive at Lunar New Year back to their ancestral villages. Most villages in China now have chargers, Mr. Li said, but not enough for the throngs of visiting drivers at Lunar New Year, which started on Friday night.
"People are just worried," he said, "about the waiting time."

Li You and Joy Dong contributed reporting and research.
Li You and Joy Dong contributed reporting and research.
Photograph A saleswoman showing a car at a BYD dealership in Shenzhen, China. More than 80 percent of the company's sales are in China, but exports to Europe are expanding. (B1); Celebrating a customer's purchase of a BYD vehicle in Shenzhen, the hub of China's electronics industry and the carmaker's hometown. At right, E.V. taxis near BYD headquarters. Taxi companies in Shenzhen buy only BYD cars.; The headquarters of BYD. An airport-style monorail carries workers from 18-story company apartments to BYD's office towers and research labs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIÉ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The BYD Explorer No. 1, carrying 5,000 electric cars, off Singapore on its way to the Netherlands. At right, "Build your dreams" is the motto of BYD. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ORE HUIYING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; GILLES SABRIÉ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.

Subject: Consumer electronics; Annual reports; Exports; Electric vehicles; Roads & highways; Airports; Tariffs; Electronics industry; Manufacturing; Cost control; Automobile sales; Subsidies; Lithium; Engineers; Automobile dealers; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Annual reports Exports Airports Tariffs Electronics industry Manufacturing Cost control Automobile sales Subsidies Automobile dealers Factories

Location: Netherlands; United States--US; China; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390; Name: General Motors Corp; NAICS: 333415, 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/12/business/byd-china-electric-vehicle.html

Title: China's BYD Is Putting Tesla in Its Rearview:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 13, 2024

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2925371310

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinas-byd-is-putting-tesla-rearview/docview/2925371310/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 13, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-13

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

How China Built BYD, Its Tesla Killer

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-china-built-byd-tesla-killer/docview/2925271363/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SHENZHEN, China — China’s BYD was a battery manufacturer trying its hand at building cars when it showed off its newest model in 2007. American executives at the Guangzhou auto show gaped at the car’s uneven purple paint job and the poor fit of its doors.
“They were the laughingstock of the industry,” said Michael Dunne, a China auto industry analyst.
Nobody is laughing at BYD now.
The company passed Tesla in worldwide sales of fully electric cars late last year. BYD is building assembly lines in Brazil, Hungary, Thailand and Uzbekistan and preparing to do so in Indonesia and Mexico. It is rapidly expanding exports to Europe. And the company is on the cusp of passing Volkswagen Group, which includes Audi, as the market leader in China.
BYD’s sales, over 80% of them in China, have grown by about 1 million cars in each of the past two years. The last automaker to accomplish that in even one year in the American market was General Motors — and that was in 1946, after GM had suspended passenger car sales during the four preceding years because of World War II.
“BYD’s growth is unlike anything the industry has seen in many decades,” said Matt Anderson, curator of transportation at the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Michigan.
Based in Shenzhen, the hub of China’s electronics industry, BYD has shown how Chinese carmakers can tap the country’s dominance of electrical products. No company has benefited as much from China’s embrace of battery-electric cars and plug-in gasoline-electric cars. These vehicles together make up 40% of China’s car market, the world’s largest, and are expected to be more than half next year. Like most Chinese automakers, BYD doesn’t sell its cars in America because Donald Trump-era tariffs remain in place, but BYD does sell buses in the United States.
BYD is leading China’s export push in electric cars, and is rapidly building the world’s largest car carrier ships to transport them. The first of the ships, the BYD Explorer No. 1, is on its maiden voyage from Shenzhen with 5,000 electric cars on board, and is expected to arrive in the Netherlands by Feb. 21.
With China’s and BYD’s success has come more scrutiny.
Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla, warned about the strength of Chinese electric car exports in a company earnings call in January. “Frankly, I think if there are not trade barriers established, they will pretty much demolish most other companies in the world,” he said.
The rapid gains by BYD and other Chinese automakers in Europe have prompted a European Union investigation of Chinese government subsidies and could result in tariffs. BYD’s annual reports show a total of $2.6 billion in government assistance from 2008 through 2022. And that does not include other help, like making sure that taxi companies in BYD’s hometown buy only BYD electric cars.
BYD declined to comment about subsidies. In a statement, the company said the BYD Explorer No. 1, its new ship, “signifies a significant milestone for BYD as it expands into international markets and contributes to the development of the global new-energy vehicle industry.”
China has built enough factories to make more than twice as many cars as its market can buy. That has led to a price war in China, particularly between BYD and Tesla, with discounting that has inflicted heavy losses. One of BYD’s newest models, the subcompact Seagull, starts at less than $11,000.
A real estate crisis and a falling stock market are now making Chinese consumers warier about buying a car at all. But BYD’s low manufacturing costs have left it in a better position than most rivals to survive any long slowdown in sales and industry shakeout.
BYD’s chair, Wang Chuanfu, founded the company in 1995 to make batteries for Motorola and other consumer electronics companies. He had studied at Central South University in Changsha, an elite institution famed for battery chemistry research. But he dreamed of making cars.
In 2003, BYD bought a factory in Xi’an that was building gasoline-powered cars. But the company had trouble at the start, gaining an early reputation for building clunkers. In a visit to the factory in 2006, a large repair area at the end of the assembly line was clogged with newly built cars that already needed more work.
BYD’s sales grew as the Chinese market soared. Warren Buffett bought a nearly 10% stake for $230 million in 2008, giving BYD not just a cash infusion but also global cachet. The same year, Wang promised to start exporting battery-electric cars to the United States within two years.
But electric cars at the time cost a lot to build and had limited range, and Wang had to scotch his plans to enter the American market. In an interview in 2011, he second-guessed his emphasis on battery-electric cars. Automakers should focus on gasoline-electric hybrids, he declared. He added, “There is still tremendous potential in the Chinese market for electric cars.”
By 2012, car production in China had caught up with demand. Buyers became choosier. BYD’s car sales and stock price plunged as multinationals offered more stylish models. Industry executives and analysts questioned whether BYD had a future.
But Wang proceeded to make two risky bets that paid off.
In 2016, he hired Wolfgang Egger, a prominent Audi designer, who in turn hired hundreds more car engineers with bold tastes. They completely redesigned BYD’s models.
Wang also figured out how to replace the industry’s standard chemicals in rechargeable lithium batteries — nickel, cobalt and manganese — with cheaper iron and phosphate. But early batteries made from the inexpensive chemical compounds ran out of juice quickly and had to be recharged after even short trips.
In 2020, BYD introduced its Blade batteries, which closed most of the so-called range gap with nickel-cobalt batteries at a fraction of what they cost.
Tesla began making and selling large numbers of cars in China the same year, and enthusiasm for electric cars swept the nation. BYD was ready with inexpensive battery chemistries and Egger’s new designs.
Tesla also began using lithium iron phosphate batteries in less expensive models. BYD still sells mostly cheaper cars with lower range, while Tesla mostly sells costlier cars with more range.
The Swiss bank UBS found last year that a BYD Seal electric hatchback sedan cost 35% less to make than a slightly smaller Volkswagen ID.3 of similar quality made in Europe. The savings came only partly from the cheaper lithium iron phosphate batteries.
BYD makes three-quarters of the Seal’s parts. Like Tesla, BYD uses only a few electronic systems in each car. By contrast, VW outsources up to two-thirds of its components. BYD also has benefited from lower labor costs in China, although those have risen as factories compete to hire skilled workers.
BYD now has its own walled town in Shenzhen, a southeastern city next to Hong Kong. An airport-style monorail carries workers from 18-story company apartments to BYD’s office towers and research labs.
Liu Qiangqiang, an engineer at the Shenzhen center, said the staff of his car development team had almost tripled since he joined the company from GMs 15 months ago.
“The pace is fast,” he said.
After dismissing autonomous driving a year ago, BYD swung into action when the consumer electronics companies Huawei and Xiaomi introduced cars with considerable autonomous driving abilities. Wang announced in January that BYD had 4,000 engineers working on assisted driving, a limited form of autonomous technology that works mainly on highways and large roads, and would invest $14 billion in the technology.
BYD has a lingering advantage over Tesla: Wang’s decision by 2011 to develop plug-in hybrid cars, which account for nearly half of BYD’s sales.
Li Jingyu, a salesperson at a BYD dealership in Shenzhen, said many families bought a hybrid as their first car so they could drive at Lunar New Year back to their ancestral villages. Most villages in China now have chargers, Li said, but not enough for the throngs of visiting drivers at Lunar New Year, which started Friday night.
“People are just worried,” he said, “about the waiting time.”
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Automobile shows; Consumer electronics; Annual reports; Electric vehicles; Roads & highways; Tariffs; Electronics industry; Manufacturing; Cost control; Automobile sales; Subsidies; Lithium; Engineers; Factories; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Annual reports Tariffs Electronics industry Manufacturing Cost control Automobile sales Subsidies Factories Automobile dealers

Location: Netherlands; New York; United States--US; China; Europe

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: Central South University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

Identifier / keyword: Prices (Fares, Fees And Rates); Europe; International Relations; Executive Compensation; Batteries; Poverty; Business; China; Electronics; Thailand; Banking And Financial Institutions; Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; Audi Division Of Volkswagen Ag; United States; Company Reports; Tesla Motors Inc; International Trade And World Market; Consumer Behavior; Corporations; Customs (Tariff); European Union; New Year; Politics And Government; Ford, Henry, Museum; Byd Co Ltd; Automobiles; Shenzhen Stock Exchange; Innovation; General Motors; Oil (Petroleum) And Gasoline; Indonesia; Dearborn (Mich); Ford, Henry; Buffett, Warren E; Michigan; Lithium (Metal); Musk, Elon; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact And Microcars); Brazil; Hungary; Uzbekistan; Guangzhou (China); Electric And Hybrid Vehicles; Factories And Manufacturing; Volkswagen Ag; Stocks And Bonds; Changsha (China); Paint; Ubs Ag; Lunar New Year; Shenzhen (China); Real Estate (Commercial); Driverless And Semiautonomous Vehicles; Labor And Jobs; Mexico; Netherlands; Trump, Donald J; Building (Construction); Tesla, Nikola; Bradsher, Keith; Henry Ford Museum

Title: How China Built BYD, Its Tesla Killer

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2024

Publication date: Feb 12, 2024

Dateline: 2024-02-12T23:21:11Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2925271363

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-china-built-byd-tesla-killer/docview/2925271363/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2024

Last updated: 2024-02-16

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

China's E.V. Companies Pull Ahead With a Lot of Government Support: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Bradsher, Keith

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinas-e-v-companies-pull-ahead-with-lot/docview/2875247163/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Chinese electric vehicle companies like Nio are pulling ever further ahead, partly through government support but also through rapid technological advances.
Nio, a Chinese electric car company that competes with Tesla, employs 11,000 people in research and development, but sold a mere 8,000 cars per month from April through June.
It has invested so extensively in robots that one of its factories employs just 30 technicians to make 300,000 electric car motors a year. Nio offers $ 350 augmented reality glasses for each seat in its cars, and has introduced a cellphone that interacts with the car's self-driving system.
And none of it is profitable -- far from it. Nio lost $ 835 million in the second quarter, or $ 35,000 for each car it sold.
Nio and other companies in China's sprawling electric car sector have formidable government backing that allows them to withstand such losses and keep growing. When Nio nearly ran out of cash in 2020, a local government immediately injected $ 1 billion for a 24 percent stake, and a state-controlled bank led a group of other lenders to pump in another $ 1.6 billion.
Today Nio embodies China's dominance of electric vehicle innovation and manufacturing, underlining its threat to traditional auto powers in Europe and the United States.
The strike by the United Automobile Workers union against three Detroit carmakers, now in its third week, is at its heart a conflict over electric vehicles: The companies say they must invest billions of dollars to retool their operations, while workers say they must defend their jobs from automation and technology while increasing their pay.
On Wednesday, European politicians worried by a wave of Chinese exports formally launched an investigation into whether electric car manufacturers in China have received government subsidies, a step that could lead Europe to impose tariffs. China's E.V. exports have surged 851 percent in the past three years, mainly to Europe. The inquiry by the European Union is geopolitically complicated: Many of Europe's most important companies have ties to China's market, and China is ready to retaliate.
China's Ministry of Commerce denounced the inquiry on Wednesday, calling it "naked protectionist behavior that will seriously disrupt and distort the supply chain of the global automotive industry chain."
Companies like Nio, which is spending heavily on marketing in Germany and other European countries, need exports. The question is whether Nio can sell enough cars to justify its enormous research and investment effort.
"I'm actually not concerned about the capacity or volume of manufacturing -- I'm only concerned about the demand," said William Li, the chairman and chief executive of Nio, at a news conference in Shanghai.
As American and European manufacturers struggle to catch up, Chinese automakers lead the world in a critical aspect of the E.V. supply chain: battery technology. They have pioneered new battery chemistries that allow long-range driving at considerably reduced cost. China also dominates electric motor production, and in designing high-efficiency systems that tie together batteries and motors.
Electric car sales are growing fast, but China has been building factories even faster for practically every electric car component. That has created a glut of capacity that has driven price tags for electric cars below the price of gasoline-powered cars.
Wages also tend to be lower in China. Autoworkers in big cities like Shanghai earn about $ 30,000 a year in pay and benefits, while workers in less expensive cities in the interior earn considerably less.
By contrast, Ford Motor has said its workers earned an average of $ 110,000 a year in pay and benefits. The U.A.W. is seeking a roughly 40 percent pay raise over four years, plus a paid day off each workweek.
As Nio's new electric motor factory shows, Chinese car manufacturing is now among the most automated in the world. American automakers are finding that they have to buy industrial robots and other automation from Chinese suppliers, said Michael Dunne, an auto analyst in San Diego who specializes in China.
"They look around and say does America have anything close to their ability on automation, and the answer is no," said Mr. Dunne, a former president of General Motors Indonesia.
Paul Gong, head of Asia automotive research for the bank UBS, predicted that Chinese carmakers would capture a third of the global car market by the end of the decade. Much of the growth in his forecast is a jump in Chinese carmakers' share of the European market to 20 percent, from just 3 percent now.
In China, he said, "the competition is so fierce that it pushes every automaker to develop new technologies."
China's technological edge has convinced some European automakers that it makes economic sense to strike partnerships even though they compete with Chinese exporters.
In July, Volkswagen paid $ 700 million for a 4.99 percent stake in XPeng, a money-losing Chinese electric car start-up, putting a valuation of $ 14 billion on XPeng. Nio received assistance from the Hefei local government, but XPeng has acknowledged assistance from the local government in Wuhan, also in central China.
Volkswagen announced in April that it would build a $ 1.1 billion car development center in the central China city of Hefei. VW will hire 2,000 engineers to do work previously performed at its headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, for cars manufactured in China.
Not all Chinese E.V. companies are losing money. BYD, the electric car leader in China and globally, tripled profit to $ 1.5 billion in the first half of this year. BYD makes its own batteries and is a highly efficient manufacturer.
UBS researchers teamed up with an engineering firm to tear apart a BYD Seal electric car. They found that the Seal hatchback sedan cost at least 35 percent less to make than a slightly smaller car of similar quality, the Volkswagen ID3.
The global market can expect far more exports from BYD: The company recently ordered, from Chinese shipyards, its own fleet of the largest transoceanic car-carrying ships ever built.
In addition to Europe, Chinese brands report soaring auto sales in markets from Australia to the Mideast to Latin America. The only market in which Chinese cars have a negligible share and are not expected to gain ground is the United States.
In 2018, Robert E. Lighthizer, President Donald J. Trump's trade representative, imposed a 25 percent tariff on all cars imported from China. The Biden administration has created a subsidy proposal for electric vehicles that excludes Chinese cars.
The overall car market in China has been shrinking since 2017, as sales of gasoline-powered cars have plummeted faster than electric car sales have risen. Ride-hailing services have become ubiquitous while high-speed rail lines and subways have knit the country tightly together.
Chinese companies keep racing to improve their technology. Since April, Nio has introduced its first small touring wagon and a new coupe sport utility vehicle while upgrading three other car models. Nio's Internet-enabled augmented reality glasses can allow passengers to project a video meeting or share a computer game.
These initiatives are starting to increase the company's sales, although they remain low. Figures released by the company on Sunday showed that the average monthly pace of vehicle deliveries rose to 18,477 from July through September. The company has not yet released financial information for the third quarter.
Selling smartphones and electric cars together has long been the dream of the electric car and smartphone industries. The cellphones, which work closely with a car's self-driving functions, can be replaced much more frequently as technology improves than semiconductors in cars, which must pass lengthy safety reviews.
On Sept. 21, Nio put on sale its own brand of cellphone with a button on the left side for car controls. The founder of Geely, another Chinese automaker, last year acquired 79 percent of a smartphone manufacturer, Meizu, and has begun putting its software into Geely cars. Apple has talked for years of selling electric cars in addition to iPhones, but the Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi is in the final stages of preparing to enter the car market next year.
So China's electric carmakers persevere despite initial losses. "You all know we have not broken even, we are under great pressure," Nio's Mr. Li said. But he reaffirmed the company's tech investments as "the path we should take."
Li You contributed research.
Li You contributed research.
Photograph Nio in Hefei, China. Electric car sales are growing fast, but China has been building factories even faster for practically every electric car component. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH BRADSHER/THE NEW YORK TIMES); The Nio booth at Auto Shanghai 2023 in April. The company sold just 8,000 cars a month from April through June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B7.

Subject: Smartphones; Exports; Electric vehicles; Automobile industry; Automation; Manufacturing; Automobile sales; Factories

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Exports Automobile industry Automation Manufacturing Automobile sales Factories

Location: United States--US; Germany; China; Europe

Company / organization: Name: United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America--UAW; NAICS: 813930; Name: UBS AG; NAICS: 522110, 523150, 523940; Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/05/business/nio-china-electric-vehicles.html

Title: China's E.V. Companies Pull Ahead With a Lot of Government Support:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.7

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Oct 11, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2875247163

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinas-e-v-companies-pull-ahead-with-lot/docview/2875247163/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Oct 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-10-11

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

China Said To Repress IPhone Use: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Bradsher, Keith; Buckley, Chris; Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith; Buckley, Chris; Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-said-repress-iphone-use/docview/2863678819/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: For years, officials in China have been told to shun foreign devices. Now reports of renewed curbs have unnerved Apple's investors, heightening geopolitical tensions.
China has discouraged the use of foreign-made electronic devices by government officials for a decade. It has told agencies and state-owned companies to replace American computer servers and other devices with domestic ones. And officials frequently show off to Americans their phones made by Huawei, China's cellphone giant.
Now, some employees of government agencies said they have received directives not to use Apple iPhones for work. Internet users in China also have been circulating accounts and screenshots said to contain notices to government employees and state-owned businesses ordering or urging them to adopt domestic brands of cellphones and computers for their work.
Chinese authorities have issued no public pronouncements about broader restrictions on iPhones. The suggestion that Apple could lose ground in the valuable Chinese market has pushed the company's stock lower, and Apple's most popular product has gotten snared in the persistent China-U.S. tensions over technology.
China's censors, usually assiduous about controlling the flow of information on the internet, appear to have done little or nothing to stop the claims of restrictions, first reported in The Wall Street Journal.
Hu Xijin, the retired editor of a Communist Party-run tabloid and now a nationalistic commentator with 25 million followers, has written about them on his blog. "If this trend continues, the U.S. is likely to be the bigger loser," Mr. Hu wrote on Weibo, a popular Chinese social media site. In a written reply to questions, Mr. Hu said that China has been forced by American policies to show greater "vigilance" about security issues.
On Sunday, President Biden said during a news conference in Vietnam that China's plan to limit government use of "a Western cellphone" was evidence that "China is beginning to change some of the rules of the game in terms of trade and other issues."
Some local and provincial employees, who make up the bulk of government employees in China, have denied being told of any ban. They have been targeted in previous efforts to discourage the use of Apple devices, notably after Edward J. Snowden, an American government contractor, released information in 2013 revealing American surveillance around the world.
The United States and China both have much to lose in a geopolitical fight over consumer electronics.
Apple products are more visible in China than products from Chinese brands like Huawei and Xiaomi are in the United States. But because Apple and many other consumer electronics manufacturers have moved much of their manufacturing to China, one of the largest categories of the American trade deficit with China is in smartphones.
The warnings come right after Huawei introduced a smartphone with high-quality cameras that is seen as an iPhone rival. The Huawei phone, the Mate 60 Pro, is the target of a U.S. review into whether it uses computer chips that were made with American technologies that have been embargoed for sale to China. Huawei has presented the phone as a domestic effort.
Gina Raimondo, the United States commerce secretary, visited Beijing and Shanghai last month and told Chinese officials that the United States would not pull back recent controls it placed on certain high-tech exports to China.
Duncan Clark, a specialist in China's telecom sector and now the chairman of BDA China, an investment consulting firm, said he believed the restrictions were "an effort to raise the stakes and remind the U.S. of what it could lose" from continued geopolitical frictions.
Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a professor emeritus at Hong Kong Baptist University, had a similar assessment. "I think it's a tit-for-tat reaction," he said, to American efforts to discourage foreign governments from installing Huawei equipment in their telecom sectors, as well as moves by some U.S. states to restrict the use of TikTok, the social media app, by government employees.
The United States bans federal agencies from buying telecommunications equipment from Huawei and other Chinese manufacturers.
Mr. Cabestan said that the warnings in China appeared to be a security measure aimed at state employees, and not a broader effort to discourage sales in China of Apple devices.
Still, few American companies have more to lose than Apple from rising tensions between the world's superpowers. China is the world's largest smartphone market and the source of about a fifth of Apple's revenue. Apple doesn't break out how many iPhones it sells in China.
More broadly, Apple became the most valuable technology company by pioneering a business model built on China's manufacturing expertise. The country's giant work force inexpensively assembles the vast majority of iPhones sold around the world.
On Tuesday in California, Apple will reveal its newest iPhone at a highly choreographed event that is an annual rite in Silicon Valley, and the company will then start stocking its stores around the world with the new model. Increasing official Chinese resistance to iPhones has the potential to curb this year's sales.
Apple, which didn't respond to requests for comment, has not said anything publicly about the recent reports.
The iPhone has long been a status symbol among Chinese entrepreneurs and popular among consumers, particularly in cities. By contrast, government employees have made a point of showing off their Huawei phones in public settings.
Under pressure from the Chinese government, Apple has built an extensive data center in China, although it has said it continues to protect its customers' privacy all over the world.
Some people who work in China's central government said employees have been told to stop using iPhones. Others described a vaguer demand for officials to stop using foreign-brand phones and to use Chinese ones.
One message that circulated on WeChat, a ubiquitous Chinese social media service, cited a decision from a departmental leader that staff members were to be barred from using foreign-brand smartphones, laptops and other digital devices starting Sept. 7. The message said staff members were also prohibited from using these foreign-brand products for work in their own homes. Another message on WeChat said that staff members would be required to stop using iPhones by Oct. 1.
Discussion has appeared online for years about whether Chinese officials are barred from using iPhones, along with occasional denials of blanket bans. A Shanghai newspaper reported in 2014 that officials in that city were under pressure to abandon iPhones over security worries.
A researcher in a government-run research institute in Beijing, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the drive to discourage the use of iPhones appeared to ripple from what Chinese officials and party newspapers have described as a strategy of "substitution for domestic products" in key technologies, which has picked up pace since last year. In a speech to senior officials in February, which was published in July, Xi Jinping, China's leader, urged increased efforts to achieve self-sufficiency for China in scientific research and advanced technologies.
"We must go on the offensive for the national production of scientific and technological instruments and equipment, operating systems and basic software," Mr. Xi said.
In recent weeks, China's Minister of State Security has publicized cases that it said involved Chinese officials and other people in sensitive roles being recruited by U.S. intelligence agents. Earlier this year, Chinese government secrecy authorities warned about careless use of phones that could expose officials to hacking or leaking sensitive information.
Amy Chang Chien, Claire Fu and Li Yuan contributed reporting.
Amy Chang Chien, Claire Fu and Li Yuan contributed reporting.
Photograph IPhone 14s on display at an Apple store in New York City. Apple was scheduled to unveil the 17th iteration of its flagship product, the iPhone 15, on Tuesday. The company has benefited from the stumbles of rivals Samsung and Huawei. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Consumer electronics; Manufacturers; Government employees; Smartphones; Manufacturing; Geopolitics; State employees; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Manufacturers Smartphones Manufacturing Social networks

Location: China; Beijing China; United States--US

People: Chang, Amy

Company / organization: Name: WeChat; NAICS: 516210, 518210

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/11/business/apple-china-iphones.html

Title: China Said To Repress IPhone Use:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 12, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times C ompany

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2863678819

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/china-said-repress-iphone-use/docview/2863678819/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 12, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-12

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Chinese Warnings on iPhones Tap Deep Strain of Security Concerns

Author: Bradsher, Keith; Buckley, Chris; Mickle, Tripp

Publication info: Bradsher, Keith; Buckley, Chris; Mickle, Tripp. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinese-warnings-on-iphones-tap-deep-strain/docview/2863604622/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Enlarge this image.
China has discouraged the use of foreign-made electronic devices by government officials for a decade. It has told agencies and state-owned companies to replace American computer servers and other devices with domestic ones. And officials frequently show off to Americans their phones made by Huawei, China’s cellphone giant.
Now, some employees of government agencies said they have received directives not to use Apple iPhones for work. Internet users in China also have been circulating accounts and screenshots said to contain notices to government employees and state-owned businesses ordering or urging them to adopt domestic brands of cellphones and computers for their work.
Chinese authorities have issued no public pronouncements about broader restrictions on iPhones. The suggestion that Apple could lose ground in the valuable Chinese market has pushed the company’s stock lower, and Apple’s most popular product has gotten snared in the persistent China-U.S. tensions over technology.
China’s censors, usually assiduous about controlling the flow of information on the internet, appear to have done little or nothing to stop the claims of restrictions, first reported in The Wall Street Journal.
Hu Xijin, the retired editor of a Communist Party-run tabloid and now a nationalistic commentator with 25 million followers, has written about them on his blog. “If this trend continues, the U.S. is likely to be the bigger loser,” Hu wrote on Weibo, a popular Chinese social media site. In a written reply to questions, Hu said that China has been forced by American policies to show greater “vigilance” about security issues.
On Sunday, President Joe Biden said during a news conference in Vietnam that China’s plan to limit government use of “a Western cellphone” was evidence that “China is beginning to change some of the rules of the game in terms of trade and other issues.”
Some local and provincial employees, who make up the bulk of government employees in China, have denied being told of any ban. They have been targeted in previous efforts to discourage the use of Apple devices, notably after Edward Snowden, an American government contractor, released information in 2013 revealing U.S. surveillance around the world.
The United States and China both have much to lose in a geopolitical fight over consumer electronics.
Apple products are more visible in China than products from Chinese brands such as Huawei and Xiaomi are in the United States. But because Apple and many other consumer electronics manufacturers have moved much of their manufacturing to China, one of the largest categories of the U.S. trade deficit with China is in smartphones.
The warnings come right after Huawei introduced a smartphone with high-quality cameras that is seen as an iPhone rival. The Huawei phone, the Mate 60 Pro, is the target of a U.S. review into whether it uses computer chips that were made with U.S. technologies that have been embargoed for sale to China. Huawei has presented the phone as a domestic effort.
Gina Raimondo, the U.S. commerce secretary, visited Beijing and Shanghai last month and told Chinese officials that the United States would not pull back recent controls it placed on certain high-tech exports to China.
Duncan Clark, a specialist in China’s telecom sector and now the chair of BDA China, an investment consulting firm, said he believed the restrictions were “an effort to raise the stakes and remind the U.S. of what it could lose” from continued geopolitical frictions.
Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a professor emeritus at Hong Kong Baptist University, had a similar assessment. “I think it’s a tit-for-tat reaction,” he said, to U.S. efforts to discourage foreign governments from installing Huawei equipment in their telecom sectors, as well as moves by some U.S. states to restrict the use of TikTok, the social media app, by government employees.
The United States bans federal agencies from buying telecommunications equipment from Huawei and other Chinese manufacturers.
Cabestan said that the warnings in China appeared to be a security measure aimed at state employees, and not a broader effort to discourage sales in China of Apple devices.
Still, few U.S. companies have more to lose than Apple from rising tensions between the world’s superpowers. China is the world’s largest smartphone market and the source of about one-fifth of Apple’s revenue. Apple doesn’t break out how many iPhones it sells in China.
More broadly, Apple became the most valuable technology company by pioneering a business model built on China’s manufacturing expertise. The country’s giant workforce inexpensively assembles the vast majority of iPhones sold around the world.
On Tuesday in California, Apple will reveal its newest iPhone at a highly choreographed event that is an annual rite in Silicon Valley, and the company will then start stocking its stores around the world with the new model. Increasing official Chinese resistance to iPhones has the potential to curb this year’s sales.
Apple, which didn’t respond to requests for comment, has not said anything publicly about the recent reports.
The iPhone has long been a status symbol among Chinese entrepreneurs and popular among consumers, particularly in cities. By contrast, government employees have made a point of showing off their Huawei phones in public settings.
Under pressure from the Chinese government, Apple has built an extensive data center in China, although it has said it continues to protect its customers’ privacy all over the world.
Some people who work in China’s central government said employees have been told to stop using iPhones. Others described a vaguer demand for officials to stop using foreign-brand phones and to use Chinese ones.
One message that circulated on WeChat, a ubiquitous Chinese social media service, cited a decision from a departmental leader that staff members were to be barred from using foreign-brand smartphones, laptops and other digital devices starting Sept. 7. The message said staff members were also prohibited from using these foreign-brand products for work in their own homes. Another message on WeChat said that staff members would be required to stop using iPhones by Oct. 1.
Discussion has appeared online for years about whether Chinese officials are barred from using iPhones, along with occasional denials of blanket bans. A Shanghai newspaper reported in 2014 that officials in that city were under pressure to abandon iPhones over security worries.
A researcher in a government-run research institute in Beijing, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the drive to discourage the use of iPhones appeared to ripple from what Chinese officials and party newspapers have described as a strategy of “substitution for domestic products” in key technologies, which has picked up pace since last year. In a speech to senior officials in February, which was published in July, Xi Jinping, China’s leader, urged increased efforts to achieve self-sufficiency for China in scientific research and advanced technologies.
“We must go on the offensive for the national production of scientific and technological instruments and equipment, operating systems and basic software,” Xi said.
In recent weeks, China’s minister of state security has publicized cases that it said involved Chinese officials and other people in sensitive roles being recruited by U.S. intelligence agents. Earlier this year, Chinese government secrecy authorities warned about careless use of phones that could expose officials to hacking or leaking sensitive information.
This article originally appeared in The New York Times.

Subject: Consumer electronics; Government employees; Smartphones; Geopolitics; State employees; Social networks; Political parties; Manufacturers; Manufacturing

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Social networks Manufacturers Manufacturing

Location: Beijing China; New York; United States--US; Vietnam; China

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 513110, 516110, 516120; Name: WeChat; NAICS: 516210, 518210

Identifier / keyword: Freedom Of The Press; International Trade And World Market; Hong Kong Baptist University; Shanghai (China); Wall Street Journal; Labor And Jobs; Speeches And Statements; Hong Kong; Electronics; Privacy; Restaurants; Snowden, Edward J; Mickle, Tripp; Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; Smartphones; United States; Mobile Applications; Company Reports; Politics And Government; Xiaomi Tech; Government Employees; California; Classified Information And State Secrets; Iphone; Wechat (Mobile App); Commerce Department; Apple Inc; Embargoes And Sanctions; Telephones And Telecommunications; Social Media; Weibo Corporation; Communist Party Of Vietnam; Hu Xijin; Computers And The Internet; Surveillance Of Citizens By Government; Wireless Communications; International Relations; Tiktok (Bytedance); Factories And Manufacturing; Polls And Public Opinion; Vietnam; Stocks And Bonds; Cellular Telephones; Newspapers; Cyberwarfare And Defense; Securities And Commodities Violations; Security And Warning Systems; Bradsher, Keith; Business; Colleges And Universities; Censorship; Appointments And Executive Changes; Xi Jinping; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Title: Chinese Warnings on iPhones Tap Deep Strain of Security Concerns

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Sep 11, 2023

Dateline: 2023-09-11T21:40:51Z

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2863604622

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/chinese-warnings-on-iphones-tap-deep-strain/docview/2863604622/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Sep 11, 2023

Last updated: 2023-09-14

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Apple Opens Its First Store Within India: [Correction]

Author: Travelli, Alex; Raj, Suhasini

Publication info: Travelli, Alex; Raj, Suhasini. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/apple-opens-first-store-within-india/docview/2802715538/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: Tim Cook, the chief executive of the iPhone maker, visited Mumbai to inaugurate the store. Apple is pushing to expand its market share in India, as well as shift some production there.
Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, visited India this week to open the company's first two Apple stores there: The biggest public company in the world is finally opening its first retail outlets in the world's most populous country.
Roaring crowds of would-be customers greeted him in Mumbai on Tuesday at a sleek glass-and-timber flatiron of a storefront, called Apple BKC, in the Bandra Kurla Complex. On Thursday, Mr. Cook will travel to New Delhi to open a second store, Apple Saket, at the center of the capital's biggest mall.
The Apple brand is not new to India. But for the past 25 years -- marked this week, in fact -- Apple has relied solely on third-party sellers to get its products into the hands of Indian consumers. The iPhone is still a rare sight within the ocean of cheaper, and mostly Chinese-branded, Android smartphones that have swept across India over the past decade. Yet in India, as in nearly every other part of the world, Apple has its fans. Some of the most ardent were at the Mumbai opening, screaming their support.
And in Delhi are eager customers like Amar Bhasin, 41, whose first cellphone, bought 18 years ago, was a Panasonic. More recently, he bought an iPad from an Indian outlet, only to discover that its screen was cracked. The store refused to exchange it, and local service centers weren't helpful. So Mr. Bhasin addressed a letter to Mr. Cook himself -- and a month later, a new iPad appeared in the mail.
"I felt so good, and became an Apple fan instantly -- who does that?" Mr. Bhasin said, standing before the still-shrouded Apple Saket. "I don't see myself buying another brand in the foreseeable future."
India is an important frontier for Apple. It was by far the biggest country to lack an outlet bearing its own brand. Some much smaller countries have multiple Apple stores: Switzerland has four, and even Macau, a Chinese territory with a population of 680,000, or 0.5 percent of India's, has two.
But those countries are something India is not: rich. Even the lower- to middle-income countries with Apple stores, such as Brazil, Thailand and Turkey, have per-capita incomes several times higher than India's.
In a potential market so big, Apple does not need to make much of a dent to earn back its investment. The company's market share in India has been growing rapidly. The iPhone 13 is the best-selling model in the premium segment, which includes phones that cost above 30,000 rupees, or $ 365. Last year, only 11 percent of the market was considered premium, but it was the fastest-growing segment.
The Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi sold the most phones in total, and the South Korean giant Samsung, which competes at different price points, had the highest value of sales, according to Counterpoint Research.
But Apple faces a consumer-pricing puzzle in India. Unlike a McDonald's, for example, Apple's signature products need to sell for roughly the same price everywhere (or else they would fly around the world, unlocked, on the black market). But the difference between marketing utility goods and luxury products becomes jumbled in the Indian context. In the Saket mall, called Select CityWalk, a bubble of air-conditioning and chromed shopfronts are across the road from a medieval warren; the Apple store is opposite a Krispy Kreme. Outposts of Chanel and Van Heusen are nearby.
Price hits differently in a country where the top 10 percent income bracket begins at 25,000 rupees, or $ 304, per month -- well under half the cost of a new iPhone. For many millions of wealthy Indians, that is perfectly acceptable. And even for those whom it stretches, it can be a price worth paying.
"It's simple: For me, it's a status symbol," said Subodh Sharma, who earns exactly 25,000 rupees per month working for a construction company. "The message that goes out to the peer and society is that, look, this person is not totally third-class," he said, glancing down at the iPhone tucked into his shirt pocket.
Mr. Sharma's partner, Bhawana, however, disagrees with his assessment. An iPhone is "not worth it," she said, right after Mr. Sharma took her photo in front of the store in Delhi. "It's uselessly costly, and its storage is small and battery life even worse." She prefers the Chinese-made Oppo phone she has been using for four years. (She earns 18,000 rupees per month at her job.)
Apple's formidable ecosystem is bound to spread more slowly in a place where the iPhone remains out of reach for so many. Kunal Dua, who runs a pharmaceutical business, recently converted his wife, Gagan Deep Kaur, to the iPhone -- but only halfway. She uses it for her Instagram account and other parts of her online social life, but she stays on her Android for work.
"Most people working under us come from lower-income groups and cannot afford an iPhone," Mr. Dua said. "So sharing media and files becomes difficult."
The relationship between Apple and India is evolving quickly. The part that matters most may have less to do with India's consumers than with the country's growing role as a production hub.
Last week, analysts at JPMorgan Chase published a report describing how a push to move manufacturing and supply chains away from China has been underway "since late 2018, led by geopolitical issues, then a pandemic and now geopolitical issues again rearing their ugly head." They expected a sustained shift and estimated that a quarter of Apple's products will be made outside China by 2025, versus less than 5 percent today, "with Vietnam and India slated as countries of choice."
That migration of high-end manufacturing might activate another ecosystem altogether. Apple is not just any multinational company. A report from Mirae Asset Financial Group said that "given Apple's size, it is a key player that can set standards and influence policy decisions," noting that the company has catalyzed China's growth. "We see a similar trend now occurring in India, as Apple diversifies its supply chain into India and a burgeoning local tech-manufacturing ecosystem develops."
Ultimately, new factories and entire new industries will need to be built before India can generate the kind of wealth necessary for more of its 1.4 billion potential consumers to become regular Apple customers.
During the store opening on Tuesday, Mr. Cook pressed his palms together in a gesture of namaste. Later that day on Twitter, he praised Mumbai for the city's "incredible energy, creativity, and passion."
His fans in India were already delighted to see more of his company in their country. They may now hope that even more multinational executives follow his lead.
Illustration This article appeared in print on page B1, B4.

Subject: Smartphones; Manufacturing; Market shares; Expansion; Multinational corporations; Business growth; Software industry

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Manufacturing Market shares Multinational corporations Business growth Software industry

Location: India; United States--US

Company / organization: Name: Apple Inc; NAICS: 334111, 334220, 513210

Title: Apple Opens Its First Store Within India:   [Correction ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 19, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2802715538

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/apple-opens-first-store-within-india/docview/2802715538/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 19, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-20

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Electric Vehicle Price Wars Break Out: [Business/Financial Desk]

Author: Fu, Claire; Wakabayashi, Daisuke

Publication info: Fu, Claire; Wakabayashi, Daisuke. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/electric-vehicle-price-wars-break-out/docview/2802215845/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: The intense competition among the country's huge number of start-up carmakers has unsettled what had been a pillar of the economy in the last few years.
A cutthroat price war has erupted in the world's largest automobile market.
Within a week in March, Volkswagen's Chinese joint venture slashed prices on its ID.3 electric cars by 18 percent. Changan Automobile, one of China's state-owned car manufacturers, offered $ 3,000 cash rebates, free charging credits and other incentives for its electric vehicles. BYD, the country's biggest E.V. maker, unveiled a second round of markdowns in a month for some of its older models.
Amid slumping auto sales, car brands are going to extremes to stay competitive, offering dealership giveaways and deep discounts. Over 40 carmakers have discounted electric and gas-powered vehicles in China this year. The discounts have amounted to several hundred dollars for cheaper models, and tens of thousands of dollars for higher-end offerings.
"The severity of this cycle of price cuts is something that I've never seen," said Tu Le, a managing director at the Beijing consultancy Sino Auto Insights, who has worked in the automotive industry in China and the United States for 25 years.
The price competition has unsettled what was a pillar of strength in the last few years, even as strict pandemic measures shook China's economy and undermined efforts by the ruling Chinese Communist Party to instill confidence.
China's car sales fell 13 percent in the first three months of 2023. Sales of traditional automobiles plunged, while growth in electric vehicles slowed, according to the China Passenger Car Association.
China's E.V. market has grown rapidly since 2020 -- doubling in sales last year -- propped up partly by government subsidies. When that program expired in December after 13 years, the competition intensified to attract buyers in an already crowded segment of the market.
At the same time, traditional automakers are scrambling to unload inventory of older cars before tougher national emissions standards starting in July make it difficult to sell diesel- and gas-powered vehicles.
An already jittery market started to spiral in January when Tesla, the American company that makes electric vehicles in Shanghai, lowered prices in China for the second time in three months. Other manufacturers felt pressure to do the same.
This month, Wang Chuanfu, chairman and chief executive of BYD, proposed that the government extend tax exemptions, which reduce the cost of buying electric vehicles, to 2025 instead of allowing them to expire this year. And China's Auto Dealers Chamber of Commerce published an article last month calling for a six-month delay in the new emissions standards.
The price cuts are not limited to China. Tesla has also lowered prices in the United States and Europe, and its competitors have followed suit. But the intensity of competition reflects the reality that China is not only the biggest market for electric vehicles but also the most competitive.
Established domestic carmakers and local start-ups, supported by Beijing's policies encouraging growth of so-called new energy vehicles, flooded the sector, enticed by a once-in-a-generation opportunity to upend the balance of power in the car industry. By one measure, there are around 300 domestic E.V. manufacturers across China.
Didi, China's leading ride-hailing service, has developed an electric car with BYD exclusively for its drivers. Xiaomi, a maker of smartphones, has said it plans to debut an electric car next year. Even Evergrande, the beleaguered property developer, was building electric vehicles, although those plans may be in jeopardy because of its debt woes.
China is the leading market for electric cars, and more were sold there last year than in the rest of the world. Foreign automakers see an urgent need to gain a foothold in China to develop the know-how and manufacturing scale necessary to compete globally.
Cui Dongshu, secretary general of the China Passenger Car Association, said the price war "will definitely continue" because of the importance of producing E.V.s in large quantities.
"In the end, companies with small sales, or poor technology will be easily eliminated," Mr. Cui said.
Car companies and dealerships are now pulling out all the stops for customers. Some dealers are offering free vacations or bottles of perfume in exchange for test drives, while some eager sales teams are stalking charging stations in hopes of luring drivers away from the competition.
Last month, a promotional poster from a Toyota dealer in the southern city of Shenzhen generated buzz online. It advertised a free gas-powered sedan with the purchase of a bZ4X, the company's electric sport utility vehicle. A woman who answered the phone at the dealership said there was currently no such deal.
Kevin Yang, 29, said he visited a Volkswagen dealer in Chengdu last month to look at its electric vehicles. He was struck by a sense of desperation among the salespeople.
The salesman stayed well past the end of his workday to plead with him to take a test drive. After Mr. Yang agreed to take the car for a spin, he started receiving daily phone calls from the salesman with offers of lower prices if he was willing to return to the dealership.
"The rat race is really intense now," Mr. Yang said.
There are similarities between the frothy E.V. market in China and the early days of the smartphone boom, when a new technology product attracted scores of upstarts to jostle with established foreign brands.
In 2015, there were more than 100 Chinese smartphone manufacturers -- a number that has been whittled down significantly to four main domestic brands and Apple. Many non-Chinese brands, such as Samsung Electronics, once a mobile phone leader in China, barely register.
Zhu Jiangming, chairman and chief executive of the Chinese E.V. maker Leapmotor, said he saw another similarity. He expects electric car prices to come down faster than traditional cars because, like smartphone makers, E.V. manufacturers will benefit as the prices of components fall and features are improved.
It is possible, Mr. Zhu said, that an average to high-end electric vehicle in China could sell for around $ 7,000 in 10 years. The average price for an electric car in China is already significantly lower than in the rest of the world, around $ 35,000 compared with $ 60,000 in Europe and $ 70,000 in the United States.
William Li, chief executive of Nio, one of the top Chinese electric vehicle companies, said he planned to keep Nio out of the price war, which he called "unhealthy and unsustainable." For traditional gas-powered automakers, "cutting prices is their last resort in trying to secure market share," he said in a statement.
Some executives fear that consumers will become accustomed to waiting for price reductions. The China Automobile Dealers Association said last month that foot traffic to dealerships had soared after markdowns, but that orders had decreased.
Leapmotor and Li Auto sought to assure potential buyers with a guarantee offering to make up the difference if the company lowered prices or offered cash rebates in the next 90 days.
Mr. Yang, the car shopper in Chengdu, said he expected prices to go even lower.
"I heard that there will be more discounts soon," he said. "I'm going to wait a bit."
Photograph A Shanghai showroom for BYD, China's top electric vehicle maker, has marked down some models. "The severity of this cycle of price cuts is something that I've never seen," said one industry watcher. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); In March, Volkswagen's Chinese joint venture slashed prices on its ID.3 electric cars by 18 percent, following a trend that cut across China's E.V. market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS SCHLUETER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); Wang Chuanfu, the chairman and chief executive of BYD, has suggested that Beijing should extend tax breaks on purchases of electric cars to 2025. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMAN PILIPEY/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.

Subject: Smartphones; Joint ventures; Electric vehicles; Price cuts; Manufacturers; Emission standards; Price wars; Automobile sales; Automobile dealers

Business indexing term: Subject: Smartphones Joint ventures Price cuts Manufacturers Automobile sales Automobile dealers

Location: Beijing China; United States--US; China; Europe

Company / organization: Name: Volkswagen AG; NAICS: 336110, 336390

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/17/business/china-electric-vehicle-prices.html

Title: Electric Vehicle Price Wars Break Out:   [Business/Financial Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: B.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Apr 18, 2023

Section: B

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2802215845

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/electric-vehicle-price-wars-break-out/docview/2802215845/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Apr 18, 2023

Last updated: 2023-04-18

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Neighbors Help Moscow Sidestep West's Sanctions: [Foreign Desk]

Author: Swanson, Ana

Publication info: Swanson, Ana. 

https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/neighbors-help-moscow-sidestep-wests-sanctions/docview/2771206431/se-2?accountid=26463

Abstract: None available.

Full text: A surge in trade by Russia's neighbors and allies hints at one reason its economy remains so resilient after sweeping sanctions.
WASHINGTON -- A strange thing happened with smartphones in Armenia last summer.
Shipments from other parts of the world into the tiny former Soviet republic began to balloon to more than 10 times the value of phone imports in previous months. At the same time, Armenia recorded an explosion in its exports of smartphones to a beleaguered ally: Russia.
The trend, which was repeated for washing machines, computer chips and other products in a handful of other Asian countries last year, provides evidence of some of the new lifelines that are keeping the Russian economy afloat. Recent data show surges in trade for some of Russia's neighbors and allies, suggesting that countries like Turkey, China, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan are stepping in to provide Russia with many of the products that Western countries have tried to cut off as punishment for Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
Those sanctions -- which include restrictions on Russia's largest banks along with limits on the sale of technology that its military could use -- are blocking access to a variety of products. Reports regularly filter out of Russia about consumers frustrated by high-priced or shoddy goods, ranging from milk and household appliances to computer software and medication, said Maria Snegovaya, a senior fellow for Russia and Eurasia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in an event at the think tank this month.
Even so, Russian trade appears to have largely bounced back to where it was before the invasion of Ukraine last February. Analysts estimate that Russia's imports may have already recovered to prewar levels, or will soon do so, depending on their models.
In part, that could be because many nations have found Russia hard to quit. Recent research showed that fewer than 9 percent of companies based in the European Union and Group of 7 nations had divested one of their Russian subsidiaries. And maritime tracking firms have seen a surge in activity by shipping fleets that may be helping Russia to export its energy, apparently bypassing Western restrictions on those sales.
While Western countries have not banned the shipment of consumer products like cellphones and washing machines to Russia, other sweeping penalties were expected to clamp down on its economy. They include a cap on the price that Russia can charge for its oil as well as restricted access to semiconductors and other critical technology.
Some companies, including H&M, IBM, Volkswagen and Maersk, halted operations in Russia after the invasion, citing moral and logistical reasons. But the Russian economy has proved surprisingly resilient, raising questions about the efficacy of the West's sanctions. Countries have had difficulty reducing their reliance on Russia for energy and other basic commodities, and the Russian central bank has managed to prop up the value of the ruble and keep financial markets stable.
On Monday, the International Monetary Fund said it now expected the Russian economy to grow 0.3 percent this year, a sharp improvement from its previous estimate of a 2.3 percent contraction.
The I.M.F. also said it expected Russian crude oil export volume to stay relatively strong under the current price cap, and Russian trade to continue being redirected to countries that had not imposed sanctions.
Most container ships have stopped ferrying goods like phones, washing machines and car parts into the port of St. Petersburg. Instead, such products are being carried on trucks or trains from Belarus, China and Kazakhstan. Fesco, the Russian transport operator, has added new ships and new ports of call to a route with Turkey that transports Russian industrial goods and foreign appliances and electronics between Novorossiysk and Istanbul.
Sergey Aleksashenko, former deputy minister of finance of the Russian Federation, said at an event this month that 2023 would be "a difficult year" for the Russian economy, but that there would be "no catastrophe, no collapse."
Some parts of the Russian economy are struggling, he said, pointing to car factories that shut down after being unable to secure parts from Germany, France, Japan and South Korea. But military expenditures and higher energy prices helped prop it up last year.
"We may not say that Russian economy is in tatters, that it is destroyed, that Putin lacks funds to continue his war," Mr. Aleksashenko said, referring to President Vladimir V. Putin. "No, it's not true."
Russia stopped publishing trade data after its invasion of Ukraine. But analysts and economists can still draw conclusions about its trade patterns by adding up the commerce that other countries report with Russia.
Matthew Klein, an economics writer and a co-author of "Trade Wars Are Class Wars," is one of the people drawing conclusions about this Russia-size hole in the global economy. According to his calculations, the value of global exports to Russia in November was just 15 percent below a monthly preinvasion average.
Global exports to Russia most likely fully recovered in December, though many countries have not yet issued their trade data for the month, he said.
"Most of that recovery has been driven overall by China and Turkey particularly," Mr. Klein said.
It's unclear how much of this trade violates sanctions imposed by the United States and Europe, but the patterns are "suspicious," he said. "It would be consistent with the idea that there are ways of trying to get around some of the sanctions."
Silverado Policy Accelerator, a Washington nonprofit, recently issued a similar analysis, estimating that the value of Russian imports from the rest of the world had exceeded prewar levels by September.
One of the case studies in that report was the jump in Armenian smartphone sales. Andrew S. David, the senior director of research and analysis at Silverado, said the trends reflected how supply chains had shifted to continue providing Russia with goods.
Samsung and Apple, previously major suppliers of Russian cellphones, pulled out of the Russian market after the invasion. Exports of popular Chinese phone brands, like Xiaomi, Realme and Honor, also initially dipped as companies struggled to understand and cope with new restrictions on sending technology or making international payments to Russia.
But after an "adjustment period," Chinese brands started to take off in Russia, Mr. David said. Overall Chinese exports to Russia reached a record high in December, helping to offset a steep drop in trade with Europe. Apple and Samsung phones also appeared to begin to find their way back to Russia, rerouted through friendly neighboring countries.
"Armenia is certainly not the only one," Mr. David said. "There's a lot coming through central western Asia, Turkey and the former Soviet republics."
Shipments to Russia of other products, like passenger vehicles, have also rebounded. And China has increased exports of semiconductors to Russia, though Russia's total chip imports remain below prewar levels.
One major open question is how effectively the Western price cap will hold down Russia's oil revenue this year.
The cap allows Russia to sell its oil globally using Western maritime insurance and financing as long as the price does not exceed $ 60 per barrel. That limit, which is essentially an exception to Group of 7 sanctions, is designed to keep oil flowing on global markets while limiting the Russian government's revenue from it.
Some analysts have suggested that Russia is finding ways around the effort by using ships that do not rely on Western insurance or financing.
Ami Daniel, the chief executive of Windward, a maritime data company, said he had seen hundreds of instances in which people from countries like the United Arab Emirates, India, China, Pakistan, Indonesia and Malaysia bought vessels to try to set up what appeared to be a non-Western trading framework for Russia.
"Basically, Russia has been gearing up toward being able to trade outside of the rule of law," he said.
Mr. Daniel said his firm had also seen a sharp uptick in shipping practices that appeared to be Russian efforts to contravene Western sanctions. They include transfers of Russian oil between ships far out at sea, in international waters that are not under the jurisdiction of any country's navy, and attempts by ships to mask their activities by turning off satellite trackers that log their location or transmitting fake coordinates.
Much of this activity had been taking place in the mid-Atlantic Ocean. But after media coverage of suspicious practices in this region, the hub moved south, off the coast of West Africa, Mr. Daniel said.
"They're exploding," he said of deceptive shipping practices. "It's happening at an industrial scale."
So far, the oil price cap appears to be accomplishing its goal of reducing the price that Russia can charge while keeping global supplies flowing. But it remains to be seen whether this shadow fleet of ships is big enough to allow Russia to buy and sell oil outside the cap, said Ben Cahill, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, during a January panel discussion.
"If that fleet is big enough for Russia to really operate outside the reach" of the Group of 7 countries, the cap probably "won't have the kind of leverage that policymakers wanted," Mr. Cahill said. "I think we should know within a couple of months."
Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.
Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.
Photograph A Turkish cargo ship at a Black Sea port in Poti, Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Clockwise from top: A port in Vladivostok, Russia; a closed H&M store in Moscow; an oil refinery along the Black Sea. Analysts say Russia's imports may have already recovered to prewar levels. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VLADIMIR SOLDATKIN/REUTERS; MAXIM SHIPENKOV/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK; ANDREY RUDAKOV/BLOOMBERG) (A9) This article appeared in print on page A1, A9.

Subject: Exports; Global economy; Sanctions; International trade; Invasions; War; Economic conditions; International relations

Business indexing term: Subject: Exports Global economy Sanctions International trade Economic conditions International relations

Location: Russia

People: Putin, Vladimir

Company / organization: Name: Group of Seven; NAICS: 926110

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/31/business/economy/russia-sanctions-trade-china-turkey.html

Title: Neighbors Help Moscow Sidestep West's Sanctions:   [Foreign Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: A.1

Publication year: 2023

Publication date: Feb 1, 2023

Section: A

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2771206431

Document URL: https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/neighbors-help-moscow-sidestep-wests-sanctions/docview/2771206431/se-2?accountid=26463

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Feb 1, 2023

Last updated: 2023-02-01

Database: Global Newsstream Collection

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2025 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions